4294804| Primary, high density bovine articular chondrocyte (BAC) cultures, stimulated with transforming growth factor--1, elaborated a high molecular weight anionic glycoconjugate, kDa 540, which does not contain glycosaminoglycan chains (Chan and Anastassiades, 1996). The effect of exogenously added transforming growth factor--1 on the elaboration of the high molecular weight glycoconjugate and of proteoglycans was studied during dedifferentiation of the chondrocytes, utilizing a serial subculture technique under anchorage-dependent conditions, up to four subcultures. The high molecular weight glycoconjugate was detected in the media of all growth-factor-stimulated chondrocyte subcultures, as well as stimulated primary cultures, but not in unstimulated primary cultures or subcultures. By contrast, a large proteoglycan, was only secreted by primary cultures and first subcultures, whether treated with transforming growth factor--1 or untreated. This proteoglycan contained mostly chondroitin sulfate chains, whose hydrodynamic size was increased by the addition of transforming growth factor--1. Further, the pattern of the proteoglycans appearing in the media of subcultures 2-4 was influenced by the addition of transforming growth factor--1, so that while these control subcultures elaborated both the large and small chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, the equivalent stimulated subcultures elaborated only intermediate sized chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan(s). These results suggest that while dedifferentiation of articular chondrocytes, achieved by subculturing, strongly modulates the effect of exogenously added transforming growth factor--1 on the type of proteoglycan elaborated, the process of dedifferentiation does not influence the transforming-growth-factor--dependent synthesis of the high molecular weight anionic glycoconjugate. 
4294897| In the present study, a unique mechanical strain apparatus for three-dimensional organotypic cultures was developed into a computerized system. It consists of a personal computer running Windows-based software, the Bio-Stretch Manager, a Bio-Stretch Controller, and three sets of magnet boards. Cells are cultured on a Gelfoam sponge that is placed in a 35-mm petri dish with one end glued to the dish, and the other end attached to a coated steel bar. The petri dish is placed in front of a magnet, and the movement of the steel bar is controlled by dynamically changing the magnetic field. Up to five stretch patterns of variable frequency, duty cycle, and magnitude can be designed for each stretch regimen. Three different stretch regimens can be tested simultaneously. The operational characteristics of sponges were examined. Attachment of cells to the sponges was observed on several cell types. These features provide wide options for using this system to study the effects of mechanical stretch on cells. 
20869584|As one member of winged helix domain transcription factors, FoxD3 plays an important role in the regulation of neural crest development and maintenance of mammalian stem cell lineages. A recent study showed that zebrafish FoxD3 is a downstream gene of Pax3 and can mediate the expression of Myf5. To further understand the function of FoxD3 in fish muscle development, we isolated the FoxD3 gene from flounder, and analyzed its expression pattern and function in regulating myogenic regulatory factors, MyoD and Myf5. In situ hybridization showed that flounder FoxD3 was firstly detected in the premigratory neural crest cells at 90% epiboly stage. The FoxD3 was expressed not only in neural crest cells but also in somite cells that will form muscle in the future. When flounder FoxD3 was over-expressed in zebrafish by microinjection, the expressions of zebrafish Myf5 and MyoD were both affected. It is possible that FoxD3 is involved in myogenesis by regulating the expression of Myf5 and MyoD. Also, over-expression of flounder FoxD3 in zebrafish inhibits the expression of zebrafish endogenic FoxD3.
4294145|The processing of the N-linked oligosaccharide modifying a secreted alkaline phosphatase glycoprotein (SEAP) expressed with a recombinant Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus was evaluated in insect cell lines established from Spodoptera frugiperda, Trichoplusia ni, and Mamestra brassicae. Studies with Endoglycosidase H (Endo H), which removes high-mannose oligosaccharides, revealed that 79% of the intracellular SEAP produced in the M. brassicae-derived MB0503 cell line was Endo H resistant. The commonly used S. frugiperda Sf21 and Sf9 cell lines produced 44 and 21% Endo H-resistant intracellular SEAP, respectively. Detection of oligosaccharide moieties with lectins, which selectively recognize terminal sugars, identified only mannose residues on SEAP expressed in the six insect cell lines. However, the oligosaccharide moiety of SEAP expressed in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line contained sialic acid. Therefore, when expressed in mammalian cells, the oligosaccharide present on SEAP is processed into complex oligosaccharide, but in insect cells it is of the high-mannose type. Studies with inhibitors of the initial oligosaccharide processing steps demonstrated that all six cell lines possessed glycosidase I/II and mannosidase I activity and that glycosylation was required for secretion.
4295312| The PKH26 dye can, in principle, be used for the study of asymmetric cell divisions (ASDs). A requirement for the identification of ASDs based on fluorescence intensity is that the PKH26 dye is distributed equally between daughter cells at each division, but this has not been demonstrated at a single-cell level. The efficacy of PKH26 as a probe for the study of ASDs was examined using the human hematopoietic KG1a cell. An automated time-lapse fluorescent microscope system was used to determine changes in cell size and fluorescence intensity during culture, and track cell divisions. The images of daughter cells were analyzed using the Isee software to determine the distribution of PKH26 dye between daughter cells. Ratios of cell size, mean fluorescence intensity, and total fluorescence intensity were calculated by dividing the values for one daughter cell by the value of the other daughter cell. The ratios for cell size, mean intensity, and total intensity were 1.13  0.12, 1.08  0.07, and 1.15  0.14 (mean  SD), respectively. Thus, PKH26 is not distributed equally to both daughter cells upon cell division. However, the replication history of individual KG1a cells can be reliably deduced for up to three divisions based solely on the mean and total fluorescence intensity of the PKH26 dye, using PKH26 concentrations below the chemical and phototoxic limits (2 M). 
23481782|Efficient culture of primary biliary epithelial cells (BECs) from adult liver is useful for both experimental studies and clinical applications of tissue engineering. However, an effective culture system for long-term proliferation of adult BECs is still unachieved. Laboratory rabbit has been used in a large number of studies; however, there are no reports of BECs from normal adult rabbit. As little as 5 g of normal rabbit liver tissue were minced, digested, and then clonally cultured in medium containing FBS and ITS. Cells were characterized by cell morphology, immunoassaying, and growth rate assay. Different combination of growth factors and substrates, including Y-27632 and Matrigel, were employed to assess their effect on cell proliferation. In the primary culture, the BECs cellular sheets consisting of cuboidal cells, as well as fibroblast-like cells and other hepatic cells, emerged with time of culture. The BECs cellular sheets were then manually split into cells clumps for further characterization. The subcultured cells had typical cell morphology of cholangiocytes, expressed the specific markers of BECs, including GGT, cytokeratin (CK18), and CK19, and possessed the capacity to form duct-like structure in three-dimensional Matrigel. Y-27632 and Matrigel-treated BECs had a steady growth rate as well as colony-formation capacity. The BECs were maintained in Y-27632 and Matrigel culture system for more than 3 mo. This is the first example, to our knowledge, of the successful culture of BECs from normal adult rabbit liver. Furthermore, our results indicate that treatment of BECs with Y-27632 and Matrigel is a simple method for efficient output of BECs.
4295178| We have analyzed the biology of embryonic, epidermal growth factor-responsive murine neural precursor cells cultured in the high-aspect ratio vessel (HARV). Within 2-3 d of rotary-cell culture, such cells formed multiple, macroscopic, three-dimensional structures that were orders of magnitude larger than the cellular clusters ("neurospheres") formed by these cells in conventional stationary-flask cultures. Each HARV structure was composed of a multilayered cellular shell surrounding one or more central cavities that were bordered by pyknotic cell nuclei. Although the cells in the HARV structures were more pleomorphic than those in neurospheres, the structures did not appear to represent primitive neural tumors: the formation of HARV structures by precursor cells was not an irreversible phenotypic change, and the structures did not originate from the clonal expansion of single-progenitor cells; the growth rate and invasiveness of the cells in HARVs were less than those in flasks; and HARV-cultured cells did not form tumors after subcutaneous inoculation into the flanks of NOD-scid/scid mice. Immunohistochemical analysis suggested that HARV structures might be novel "prototissues" characterized by a crude, but organized, architecture, with a surface layer of immature proliferating cells (nestin- and proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive) that enclosed strata of more differentiated cells (-tubulin III- and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive) within. Rotary-cell culture may have significant implications for the eventual utility of neural precursors for clinical neurotransplantation. 
4295633|The manipulation of embryonic stem (ES) cells to introduce directional genetic changes into the genome of mice has become an important tool in biomedical research. Monitoring of cell morphology before and after DNA manipulation and special culture conditions are a prerequisite to preserve the pluripotent properties of ES cells and thus their ability to generate chimera and effective germline transmission (GLT). It has been reported that prolonged cell culturing may affect the diploid chromosomal composition of cells and therefore the percentage of chimerism and GLT. Herein, we report multicolor-fluorescence in situ hybridization (M-FISH) analysis of four different ES cell lines/clones. Although the morphology of all four ES cell lines/clones appeared normal and all four expressed the early markers Oct-3/4 and Nanog, two cell lines presented consistent numerical and structural chromosome aberrations. We demonstrate that M-FISH is a sensitive and accurate method for a comprehensive karyotype analysis of ES cells and may minimize time, costs, and disappointments due to inadequate ES cell sources.
20460117|The microenvironment plays a key role in the cellular differentiation of the two main cell lineages of the human breast, luminal epithelial, and myoepithelial. It is not clear, however, how the components of the microenvironment control the development of these cell lineages. To investigate how lineage development is regulated by 3-D culture and microenvironment components, we used the PMC42-LA human breast carcinoma cell line, which possesses stem cell characteristics. When cultured on a two-dimensional glass substrate, PMC42-LA cells formed a monolayer and expressed predominantly luminal epithelial markers, including cytokeratins 8, 18, and 19; E-cadherin; and sialomucin. The key myoepithelial-specific proteins -smooth muscle actin and cytokeratin 14 were not expressed. When cultured within Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm sarcoma-derived basement membrane matrix (EHS matrix), PMC42-LA cells formed organoids in which the expression of luminal markers was reduced and the expression of other myoepithelial-specific markers (cytokeratin 17 and P-cadherin) was promoted. The presence of primary human mammary gland fibroblasts within the EHS matrix induced expression of the key myoepithelial-specific markers, -smooth muscle actin and cytokeratin 14. Immortalized human skin fibroblasts were less effective in inducing expression of these key myoepithelial-specific markers. Confocal dual-labeling showed that individual cells expressed luminal or myoepithelial proteins, but not both. Conditioned medium from the mammary fibroblasts was equally effective in inducing myoepithelial marker expression. The results indicate that the myoepithelial lineage is promoted by the extracellular matrix, in conjunction with products secreted by breast-specific fibroblasts. Our results demonstrate a key role for the breast microenvironment in the regulation of breast lineage development.
4294678| Among the various directions explored in order to have a large number of differentiated articular chondrocytes easily available, the restoration of the differentiated properties after cell multiplication in monolayer has been proposed. It has been clearly shown that the synthesis of cartilage proteoglycans and type II collagen synthesis is coincident with the presence of a faint microfibrillar architecture but is absent in chondrocytes showing well-defined actin cables. Staurosporin, mainly described as a protein kinase C inhibitor, has also been shown to rapidly induce the disruption of the actin microfilaments. The purpose of this paper was to investigate whether properties of differentiated chondrocytes were reinitiated upon staurosporin treatment of serially passaged chondrocytes. Results showed, after staurosporine treatment of cells at Passage two for 5 d, complete suppression of type I and type III collagen synthesis and induction of type II collagen synthesis and of Alcian blue stainable matrix. Additionally, we showed that staurosporin restored metabolic responses that chondrocytes in primary culture exhibit upon interleukin-l treatment (decrease of Alcian blue-positive cells, induction of expression of the 92 kDa gelatinase, nitric oxide production). We conclude that staurosporin is a potent redifferentiating agent of articular chondrocytes that have been subcultured up to Passage two for multiplication. Taking into account that the cellularity of cartilage is very low, staurosporine-treated chondrocytes could be useful as an alternative cellular model to evaluate pharmacotoxicological effects of drugs. 
4295618| Microarray technology has burgeoned over the past few years from nucleic acid-based arrays to tissue microarrays (TMAs). This study aimed to develop a technique to incorporate cell lines into an array and to demonstrate the usefulness of this technique by performing immunohistochemistry for -catenin. Cell suspensions were prepared from 23 tumor cell lines. These were fixed in formalin, suspended in agar, and embedded in paraffin to produce a cell block. A "tissue microarrayer" was used to remove triplicate, 0.6 mm-cores from each cell block and to transfer these into a recipient paraffin block at precise coordinates. Immunohistochemistry was used to identify cell lines positive for -catenin. Cultured cells were successfully incorporated into the microarray, with preservation of cell architecture and even distribution of cells within each core. A total of 18 of 69 cores (26%) were lost in processing. A total of 16 of 23 cell lines were identified as positive for membrane and cytoplasmic -catenin, and 6 of 23 were negative. Only one cell line was unscorable because of complete core loss. We have developed a "cell microarray" technique for analyzing antigen expression by immunohistochemistry in multiple cell lines in a single experiment. This novel application of microarrays permits high-throughput, cost-efficient analysis, with the potential to rapidly identify markers with potential diagnostic and therapeutic implications in human disease. 
40205807|Tiger (Panthera tigris Linnaeus, 1758) is a characteristic species of Asia, which is in severe danger. Siberian tiger (Panthera tigris altaica) is the largest one of the five existent tiger subspecies. It is extremely endangered. One new way for tiger protection and rescue is to study interspecies cloning. But there is few research data about Siberian tiger. In this study, we cultured Siberian tiger fibroblasts in vitro, analyzed their biological characteristics, chromosomes, and cell cycles, to provide not only nuclear donors with good morphology, normal biological characteristics, and chromosome quantity for tiger interspecies cloning, but also reliable data for further studying Siberian tiger. The results indicated that Siberian tiger ear fibroblasts can be successfully obtained by tissue culture either with or without overnight cold digestion, the cultured cells were typical fibroblasts with normal morphology, growth curve, and chromosome quantity; G0/G1 percentage increased and S percentage decreased with the confluence of cells. G0/G1 and S stage rate was significantly different between 40-50% and 80-90%, 95-100% confluence; there is no distinct difference between 80-90% and 95-100% confluence. The cells at the same density (80-90% confluence) were treated with or without 0.5% serum starving, GO/G1 rate of the former was higher than the latter, but the difference was not significant. GO/G1 proportion of 95-100% confluence was slightly higher than serum starving (80-90% confluence), but no significant difference. Therefore, the Siberian tiger fibroblasts we cultured in vitro can be used as donor cells, and the donor cells do not need to be treated with normal serum starvation during nuclear transfer; if we will just consider the rate of the G0/G1 stage cells, serum starvation can be replaced by confluence inhibition when cultured cells were more than 80-90% confluence.
4294134|To provide a framework for biochemical investigation of ecdysteroid action in Aedes albopictus mosquito cells, we examined the effect of 20-hydroxyecdysone on cell growth and morphology, synthesis of inducible proteins (EIPs), and expression of a transfected gene regulated by a synthetic ecdysteroid response element. When cells were cultured in the continuous presence of
4295545|Although a wealth of evidence supports the hypothesis that some functions of the nervous system may be altered during exposure to microgravity, the possible changes in basic neuronal physiology are not easy to assess. Indeed, few studies have examined whether microgravity affects the development of neurons in culture. In the present study, a suspension of dissociated cortical cells from rat embryos were exposed to 24 h of simulated microgravity before plating in a normal adherent culture system. Both preexposed and control cells were used after a period of 7-10 d in vitro. The vitality and the level of reactive oxygen species of cultures previously exposed did not differ from those of normal cultures. Cellular characterization by immunostaining with a specific antibody displayed normal neuronal phenotype in control cells, whereas pretreatment in simulated microgravity revealed an increase of glial fibrillary acidic protein fluorescence in the elongated stellate glial cells. Electrophysiological recording indicated that the electrical properties of neurons preexposed were comparable with those of controls. Overall, our results indicate that a short time of simulated microgravity preexposure does not affect dramatically the ability of dissociated neural cells to develop and differentiate in an adherent culture system.
4295606|In chondrocytes, fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) inhibit chondrocytes proliferation by upregulation of the cell cycle inhibitor
4294393| Although the intestinal epithelium is one of the most rapidly renewing tissues, little is known about the major growth factors that control the rate of cell replacement and migration. Recently, a primary culture model has been described for the developing rat small intestinal epithelium, which permits epithelial growth while maintaining interactions with associated stromal cells, thereby possessing several contextual advantages over established cell lines (Evans et al., 1992). We have used this model to begin to determine the factors that may be involved in controlling intestinal epithelial cell proliferation. Under the conditions examined, no single growth factor promoted exclusive proliferation of epithelial cells; stromal cell proliferation was also apparent. The most potent stimulators of epithelial proliferation were insulin and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). These factors also appeared to inhibit migration of the epithelial cells. 5-10 ng/ml EGF, 5-20 ng/ml TGF, and 10-20 ng/ml PDGF also slightly increased epithelial cell numbers. Cell proliferation was inhibited by 0.1 ng/ml TGF-1. In Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) containing 0.25 IU/ml insulin, glucose levels of 2-3 g/liter permitted epithelial growth with limited expansion of the stromal cell population. Higher levels of glucose further stimulated the nonepithelial cell types. Transferrin was also a potent stimulator of both cell types. 
24596449|Hemocytes are the main immune defense cells in crustacean, and its in vitro culture can be a useful tool for the study of host and pathogen interaction. In the present study, the primary hemocyte culture of Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis), including mixed and single hemocyte, was set up for the first time. In this study, different pH (6.4, 6.8, 7.2, 7.6, and 8.0), temperature (26, 28, and 30C), and osmolarity (500, 700, 900, 1,100, and 1,300 mOsm kg1) values were tested. Moreover, the effects of two types of medium (1  L-15 and 3  L-15) with the same osmolarity on hemocyte culture were evaluated. After incubation at different culture conditions, the morphological changes (degranulation, lysis, shrinkage, and detachment) and survival rate of hemocytes were taken into account in order to evaluate the culture condition effect. Our results showed that the total hemocyte counts of Chinese mitten crab were about 2.5  107 cells ml1, and three subpopulations of hemocytes were distinguished as granulocytes (43.464.98%), semigranulocytes (31.041.95%), and hyalinocytes (25.504.89%). The optimal culture condition for primary hemocytes of Chinese mitten crab was 3 L-15 medium, 1,100 mOsm Kg1, pH 6.8 at 28C. Hemocytes at optimal culture condition could retain a better morphology and higher survival rate: hemocytes retained a survival rate >60% after 5 d and >40% after 7 d. Furthermore, the hemocyte subpopulations were isolated by Percoll step gradient centrifugation and cultured in optimized hemocyte culture conditions. The results showed that hyalinocytes and semi-granulocytes could maintain a survival rate of >50% after 15 d, while granulocytes only retained a survival rate of 26% after 5 d.
4294782|Although most vascular models use large vessel endothelial cells from human umbilical veins, there is marked heterogeneity among endothelial cells from different vascular beds and organs. More accurate modeling of endothelial involvement in liver diseases, including metastasis, may result from the use of human hepatic sinusoidal endothelial cells. Liver resection specimens were sectioned, then treated with a 1.2 U/ml dispase solution. The tissue slurry was mechanically disaggregated and separated by centrifugation on a Percoll density gradient. Cells were then cultured in an endothelial-specific media with growth factors. These techniques resulted in a homogeneous monolayer consistent with endothelial cells by light microscopy. An endothelial origin was further confirmed by the expression of Factor VIII, binding of Ulex lectin, and uptake of acetylated low density lipoprotein. Electron microscopy showed transcellular fenestrations consistent with a sinusoidal origin. These human hepatic sinusoidal endothelial cells were then studied for expression of the adhesion molecules CD31/PECAM, CD34, E-selectin, ICAM-1, L-selectin, LFA-3, P-selectin, and VCAM-1 plus the binding of wheat germ agglutinin lectin. The patterns of adhesion molecule expression and lectin binding by these cells are characteristic of hepatic sinusoidal endothelia. In this paper, we have described a method for isolation and culture of human cells with the morphologic and phenotypic characteristics of hepatic sinusoidal endothelia.
40205950|A zebrafish spleen cell line, ZSSJ, was developed and its growth arrest by gamma radiation determined and its capacity to stimulate the proliferation of the zebrafish blastula cell line, ZEB2J, measured. ZSSJ was initiated by explant outgrowth, grew adherent with mainly an epithelial-like morphology, and stained strongly for alkaline phosphatase. ZSSJ was not only grown in L-15 with 15% fetal bovine serum at 26C to 28C but also grew at room temperature. Cultures of ZSSJ have undergone approximately 40 population doublings, had few cells staining for b-galactosidase activity, which is commonly present in senescent cultures, and many cells with an aneuploid karyotype, which is frequently associated with immortalization. ZSSJ growth was arrested by 30 to 50 Gy of g-irradiation, whereas after 20 Gy, some slight growth was observed. By contrast, growth of the rainbow trout spleen stromal cell line, RTS34st, which has been used as a feeder for zebrafish ES cell cultures, was arrested completely by 20 Gy. In cocultures, nongrowth-arrested ZSSJ stimulated ZEB2J proliferation better than growth-arrested ZSSJ and better than RTS34st. ZSSJ should be useful as a feeder cell line for zebrafish ES cell cultures.
4294465| The cellular retinoic acid-binding proteins (CRABPs) are thought to modulate the responsiveness of cells to retinoic acid (RA). We have previously shown that primary cultures of murine embryonic palate mesenchymal (MEPM) cells express both CRABP-I and CRABP-II genes and that this expression is regulated by RA and transforming growth factor  (TGF-). These cells also express high levels of TGF-3, which is also regulated by RA and TGF-. We have used an antisense strategy to investigate the role of the CRABPs in retinoid-induced gene expression. Subconfluent cultures of MEPM cells were treated for several days with phosphorothioate modified 18-mer oligonucleotides antisense to CRABP-I or CRABP-II and then with all-trans-retinoic acid at a concentration of 3.3 M or 0.33 M for 5 or 22 h. Total RNA was then extracted and the expression of TGF-3, retinoic acid receptor  (RAR-), and tenascin was assessed by northern blot analysis. Antisense oligonucleotides to CRABP-I partially inhibited the RA-induced TGF-3, RAR-, and tenascin mRNA expression. The corresponding mis-sense oligonucleotides were without effect. Antisense oligonucleotides to CRABP-II also partially inhibited RA-induced expression of these genes. As with the CRABP-I antisense, mis-sense oligonucleotides to CRABP-II had no effect. These data suggest that both CRABPs modulate the responsiveness of MEPM cells to retinoic acid. Inhibition of endogenous CRABP expression renders MEPM cells less responsive to RA with respect to induction of TGF-3, RAR-, and tenascin gene expression. These results have important implications for our understanding of the role of the CRABPs in retinoid teratology. 
23279346|Mouse receptor activator of NF-B ligand (RANKL), which induces osteoclastogenesis from monocytes or macrophages, was independently cloned by three groups in 1997. Mouse osteoclasts have been induced from peripheral monocytes stimulated by RANKL and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) both in vitro and in vivo; however, the mechanism of primate osteoclastogenesis has not been studied. In addition, the effects of human RANKL on primate osteoclastogenesis remain to be elucidated. Here, we investigated the effect of human RANKL on the osteoclastogenesis of monocytes from five subspecies of primates. Human RANKL induced osteoclastogenesis of all the primates. In addition, human RANKL induced pit formation by osteoclasts from monocytes of the crab-eating macaque. We also demonstrated that the primate osteoclastogenesis was inhibited by a novel peptide, which inhibited human osteoclastogenesis in our previous study. Thus, these findings clearly demonstrated that human RANKL induces primate osteoclastogenesis in the presence of human M-CSF.
40205791|Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) are expected to be an enormous potential source for future cell therapy, because of their self-renewing divisions and also because of their multiple-lineage differentiation. The finite lifespan of these cells, however, is a hurdle for clinical application. Recently, several hMSC lines have been established by immortalized human telomerase reverse transcriptase gene (hTERT) alone or with hTERT in combination with human papillomavirus type 16 E6/E7 genes (E6/E7) and human proto-oncogene, Bmi-1, but have not so much been characterized their karyotypic stability in detail during extended lifespan under in vitro conditions. In this report, the cells immortalized with the hTERT gene alone exhibited little change in karyotype, whereas the cells immortalized with E6/E7 plus hTERT genes or Bmi-1, E6 plus hTERT genes were unstable regarding chromosome numbers, which altered markedly during prolonged culture. Interestingly, one unique chromosomal alteration was the preferential loss of chromosome 13 in three cell lines, observed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and comparative-genomic hybridization (CGH) analysis. The four cell lines all maintained the ability to differentiate into both osteogenic and adipogenic lineages, and two cell lines underwent neuroblastic differentiation. Thus, our results were able to provide a step forward toward fulfilling the need for a sufficient number of cells for new therapeutic applications, and substantiate that these cell lines are a useful model for understanding the mechanisms of chromosomal instability and differentiation of hMSCs.
4294311|Identification of fifth instar larval Manduca sexta fat body and epidermis as sites of synthesis of a hemolymph protein (hemolymph trophic factor or HTF) was achieved using in vitro
4295228|Cell lines from selected lepidopteran species were established for the overall purpose of use in baculovirus production. A total of 36 new cell lines from 10 lepidopteran species were generated, including cell lines from a pyralid, the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis, a plutellid, the diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella, as well as eight noctuids: the black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon, the celery looper, Anagrapha falcifera, the velvetbean caterpillar, Anticarsia gemmatalis, the corn earworm, Helicoverpa zea, the tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens, the beet armyworm, Spodoptera exigua, the fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda, and the cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni. Tissues used for cell line establishment included fat bodies, ovaries, testes, or whole embryos/larvae/pupae. All the cell lines were subcultured numerous times, characterized by isoenzyme analysis and/or deoxyribonucleic acid amplification fingerprinting using polymerase chain reaction, and stored in liquid nitrogen. Many of the cell lines were adapted to grow in serum-free medium, with cell lines from A. ipsilon and H. virescens being adapted to suspension culture using shaker flasks. The potential use for these cell lines in baculovirus production is discussed.
4295422|Isolation and growth of malignant cells from solid tumors have often met with disappointing results. Consequently, we have developed a cell culture methodology based on ex vivo explantation of tumor tissue, with subsequent monolayer cell outgrowth. In an attempt to assess methods for detection of malignant cells in these cultures, we analyzed and compared the results of cytopathology, growth in soft agar, and detection of telomerase activity with those of standard immunohistochemistry (IHC) techniques for the detection of cytokeratins, tumor marker p53, and proliferation marker Ki-67. The sensitivity of detection of malignant cells was 85% (22/26) for cytopathological examination, 30% (3/10) for soft agar growth, and 100% (12/12) for detection of telomerase activity. From these data, we concluded that both cytopathological examination and assessment of telomerase activity contribute to the detection of malignant cells in primary cultures of human solid tumors, whereas growth in soft agar was not a good indicator of malignant cells. Although not specific for malignant cells per se, IHC detection for epithelial cell cytokeratins showed a high degree of sensitivity (100%, 23/23), whereas the sensitivity for detection of tumor marker p53 and proliferation marker Ki-67 was 30% (7/23) and 70% (16/23), respectively. These data also provide proof that malignant tumor cells, derived from a diverse number of human solid tumors, can be isolated and grown in primary cell culture.
4295668|Previously, we have engineered three-dimensional (3-D) skeletal muscle constructs that generate force and display a myosin heavy-chain (MHC) composition of fetal muscle. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the functional characteristics of 3-D skeletal muscle constructs cocultured with fetal nerve explants. We hypothesized that coculture of muscle constructs with neural cells would produce constructs with increased force and adult MHC isoforms. Following introduction of embryonic spinal cord explants to a layer of confluent muscle cells, the neural tissue integrated with the cultured muscle cells to form 3-D muscle constructs with extensions. Immunohistochemical labeling indicated that the extensions were neural tissue and that the junctions between the nerve extensions and the muscle constructs contained clusters of acetylcholine receptors. Compared to muscles cultured without nerve explants, constructs formed from nerve-muscle coculture showed spontaneous contractions with an increase in frequency and force. Upon field stimulation, both twitch (2-fold) and tetanus (1.7-fold) were greater in the nerve-muscle coculture system. Contractions could be elicited by electrically stimulating the neural extensions, although smaller forces are produced than with field stimulation. Severing the extension eliminated the response to electrical stimulation, excluding field stimulation as a contributing factor. Nerve-muscle constructs showed a tendency to have higher contents of adult and lower contents of fetal MHC isoforms, but the differences were not significant. In conclusion, we have successfully engineered a 3-D nerve-muscle construct that displays functional neuromuscular junctions and can be electrically stimulated to contract via the neural extensions projecting from the construct.
4294816|Molecular studies of bladder carcinomas have aided in determining causative genetic events and the prognosis of cancers endowed with certain abnormalities. In vitro bladder cancer characterization of key cytogenetic alterations is useful for study of molecular changes that may promote oncogenic events. In our laboratory, a novel human bladder cancer cell line, BK10, has been established in vitro and passaged for more than 20 mo. This new bladder cancer cell line (BK10) was derived from bladder tissue containing grade III-IV/IV transitional cell carcinoma. Bladder cancer tissue was obtained at the time of radical cystoprostatectomy extirpation. Cell cultures derived from this surgical sample exhibited an epithelial morphology and expressed epithelial cytokeratins. Immunostains of BK10 were negative for prostate specific antigen (PSA), fibronectin, smooth muscle actin alpha, and desmin. Karyotypic analysis revealed an aneuploid chromosomal content <4n> with many numerical and structural abnormalities previously linked to bladder oncogenesis. Translocations occurred in chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, X and Y. G-banding analysis revealed rearrangements involving chromosomes 9q and 17p, and the location of the ab11 oncogene and the p53 gene, respectively. The availability of this bladder cancer cell line will provide a useful tool for the further study of bladder carcinoma oncogenesis and gene therapy.
40205902|Growth hormone (GH) plays important roles in oocyte development and facilitates the successful production of competent oocytes in many species both in vivo and in vitro. However, the mechanism of GH action on oocyte maturation is not well known. In this paper, the temporospatial messenger ribonucleic acid expression patterns of GH and several other GH-related factors were quantitatively analyzed in porcine cumulus- oocytes complex throughout in vitro maturation (IVM). GH expression was decreased in oocytes during IVM while absent in cumulus cells. GH receptor, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and IGF-1 receptor expressions were also downregulated in oocytes. In cumulus cells, the expression of IGF-1 decreased significantly while IGF-1 receptor expression remained constant. The transcripts of Janus kinase 2 increased in both oocytes and cumulus cells during IVM. The current precise gene expression information provides further evidence to explain the complex network of GH signaling involved in IVM of porcine oocyte.
4295319|Epithelial cells lining the digestive tract represent a highly organized system built up by multipotent stem cells. A process of asymmetric mitosis produces a population of proliferative cells that are rapidly renewed and migrate along the crypt-villus axis, differentiating into functional mature cells before dying and exfoliating into the intestinal lumen. Isolated crypts or epithelial cells retaining high viability can be prepared within a few h after tissue sampling. After cells are cultured in serum-free media, short-term studies (16-48 h) can be conducted for endocrinology, energy metabolism, or programmed cell death. However, long-term primary culture of intestinal cells (up to 10 d) is still difficult despite progress in isolation methodologies and manipulation of the cell microenvironment. The main problem in developing primary culture is the lack of structural markers specific to the stem cell compartment. The design of a microscopic multidimensional analytic system to record the expression profiles of biomarkers all along the living intestinal crypt should improve basic knowledge of the survival and growth of adult crypt stem cells, and the selection of totipotent embryonic stem cells capable of differentiating into intestinal tissues should facilitate studies of the genomic basis of endodermal tissue differentiation.
4295623|Melanomacrophages (MMs) are a component of an internal, pigmented cell system in liver and splenic tissues of some fishes, anurans, and reptiles. The cells have been found in centers or aggregates in sinusoids and are associated with cells capable of producing a peptide cytokine and immunoglobulins. A unique cell extension process has been observed in turtle MMs placed into cell culture, and this process has been studied by light and atomic force microscopy. These structures, referred to as cablepodia, are uniquely straight, narrow, and unbranching and appear to originate from growth cones opposite lamellipodia. Cablepodia were found to connect with other turtle MMs and fibroblasts forming cell networks. Dividing fibroblasts to which a cablepodium attached ceased cell division. The observations collectively suggest that a principal reason for aggregations of MMs in internal organs of lower vertebrates is their ability to form interconnected networks of cell processes for trapping and processing of particulate matter, cells, and infectious organisms and, possibly, for the communication of cell signals and transfer of intracellular materials.
41318681|Hepatocytes are an important research tool used for numerous applications. However, a short life span and a limited capacity to replicate in vitro limit the usefulness of primary hepatocyte cultures. We have hypothesized that in vivo priming of hepatocyte could make them more susceptible to growth factors in the medium for continuous proliferation in vitro. Here, a novel approach used to establish hepatocyte cell lines that included hepatocyte priming in vivo prior to culture with a 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine diet was attempted. The cell line grew in a monolayer while maintaining a granular cytoplasm and a round nucleus. Electron microscopy displayed hepatocyte-like features including mitochondria, glycogen granules, and the presence of bile canaliculi. This cell line expressed many mature hepatocyte-specific genes including albumin, alpha 1-antitrypsin, glucose 6-phosphatase, and tyrosine aminotransferase. Functional characteristic of hepatocytes like the ability to store glycogen, lipid, and synthesis of urea is well demonstrated by this cell line. These cells demonstrated anchorage dependent growth properties in soft agar and did not form tumors after transplantation into nude mice. This cell line can be sustained in culture for more than 100 passages (> 1.5 years) without undergoing noticeable morphological changes or transformation. This novel method resulted in the establishment of an immortal, non-transformed hepatocyte cell line with functional characteristics that may aid research of cell metabolism, toxicology, and hepatocyte transplantation.
4294152|Fibroblasts from a beige mouse (C57BL/6J;
41511615|Cell differentiation involves widespread epigenetic reprogramming, including modulation of DNA methylation patterns. The differentiation potential differences in DNA methylation patterns might function in pluripotency restriction, while tissue-specific differences might work in lineage restriction. To investigate the effects of neuronal induction on promoter methylation pattern in rat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), we used bisulfite sequencing to analyze the methylation status of the promoter regions in neuronspecific enolase (NSE), microtubule-associated protein Tau, and Oct4 genes in MSCs pre-and post-chemical induction. Neurocytes from the newborn rat brains were used as control. Data showed that NSE and Tau were abundantly expressed in the brain cells and MSC-derived neurocyte-like cells as well but not in the MSCs. However, both NSE promoter (-214~+ 57 bp) and Tau promoter (-239~+ 131 bp) were hypomethylated (<4 % CpG methylation). Oct4 was expressed in MSCs, and the Oct4 promoter (-293~-85 bp) was hypermethylated (>79 % CpG methylation). Interestingly, it was found that the methylation of the locus -113 bp upstream of Oct4 transcription start site was specifically enhanced in the process of MSCs' neuronal differentiation. Further experiments in hepatocytes derived from MSCs and hepar tissue proved that the -113 bp locus methylation increased also in non-neurogenic lineages. Tfsitescan prediction showed that AP-2-alpha/gamma and Spl might regulate Oct4 transcription upon MSC differentiation by binding the -113 bp locus. So, we conclude that promoter methylation modifies pluripotency-specific gene, rather than regulates the expression of neural-specific genes when MSCs differentiate into neurocyte-like cells.
23279363|Catla catla is the fastest growing Indian major carp and one of the major aquaculture species in South Asia. A monoclonal antibody (MAb) designated B8 MAb was produced against nylon wool-enriched thymus mononuclear cells of C. catla. This MAb did not show reactivity with macrophage and epithelial cell lines derived from catla thymus in cellular ELISA. In flow cytometric analysis of gated lymphocytes, the percentage of B8 positive (B8+) cells in thymus (n=10, 500600 g) was determined to be 77.7 %. Similarly, the percentage of B8+ cells in kidney, spleen and blood (n=5) was 15.08, 1.1 and 32.17 %, respectively. Western blotting of reduced membrane proteins showed that B8 MAb reacted with a polypeptide having a molecular weight of 168.2 kDa. In indirect immunoperoxidase test, B8+ cells appeared to be lymphoid cells with a high nucleus to cytoplasmic ratio. B8 reactive cells were densely packed in central region of thymus whereas, a few cells were found to be positive in kidney and spleen sections. B8 MAb also reacted with a significant population of lymphocytes in blood smears. Considering the economic importance of C. catla, this MAb should be a useful tool for studying immune response of this fish species.
4295395|A stem cell population isolated from murine skeletal muscle has recently been shown to differentiate into hematopoietic cells after transplantation in vivo. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that this cell population would also, under appropriate culture conditions, differentiate into skeletal muscle cells in vitro. Lower-extremity skeletal muscle tissue isolated from 3- to 4-wk-old mice was dissected free from bone and vessels, enzymatically digested, and flow cytometrically sorted to yield
4294332| There have been no reports, to date, of successful introduction of foreign DNA into committed megakaryocyte precursor cells. We have successfully infected two megakaryocytic cell lines, one a committed cell line (CHRF-288-11) and the other a bipotential cell line (K562), with a retroviral vector containing the bacterial lacZ gene and a neomycin resistance marker. Modification of standard protocols was required for successful infection of the committed megakaryocyte cell line. Presence of the lacZ transgene was demonstrated at the molecular level by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and its expression at the mRNA level by reverse transcriptase-PCR. Presence of the bacterial -galactosidase was demonstrated by both immunofluorescence and enzyme activity. Treatment of the CHRF-288-11 infected cells with phorbol esters, which induces megakaryocytic differentiation, increases expression of the lacZ transgene. The staining pattern of the lacZ reaction product was perinuclear and punctate in the CHRF-288-11 cells, whereas it was uniform throughout the cytoplasm of the K562 cells, suggesting different sorting mechanisms for bacterial -galactosidase in these two cell types. Overall, these results demonstrate the feasibility and provide a method for infecting cultured megakaryocytic cell lines with retroviral of vectors such that a molecular analysis of megakaryocyte differentiation can be accomplished. 
40928178|Differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into hematopoietic lineages using various methods has been reported. However, the phenotype that precisely defines the hematopoietic progenitor compartment with clonogenic activities has yet to be determined. Here, we measured and characterized progenitor function of subfractions of cells prospectively isolated from human embryoid bodies (hEBs) during hematopoietic differentiation basing on surface markers CD45, CD34, CD43, and CD38. We report that hematopoietic progenitors predominantly resided in the CD45 subset. CD43 cells lacking CD45 expression were largely devoid of progenitor activity. However, progenitor activity and multipotentiality was more enriched in CD45 cells co-expressing CD43. CD45 subset co-expressing CD34 but lacking CD38 expression (CD45CD34CD38) were further enriched for CFU capacity compared to the CD45CD34CD38 subset. Our study demonstrates a role of CD43 in enriching hematopoietic progenitors derived from hEBs and reveals a hierarchical organization of hESC-derived hematopoietic progenitor compartments defined by phenotypic markers.
4295082|Cell-free translation/translocation systems are broadly applied to examine gene expression and characterize the structure-function relationship of gene products. We present the characterization of Xenopus egg extract (XEE) translocation and processing of proteins synthesized in rabbit reticulocyte lysate. The XEE was prepared from eggs laid by adult female frogs that received serial injections of gonadotropins. The eggs were then dejellied in 2% L-cysteine-HCl and the cytoplasm extracted by centrifugation at 10,000 rpm for 15 min. The in vitro translocation and processing of XEE was examined with a cell-free translation system containing reticulocyte lysate, and appropriate messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) or complementary deoxyribonucleic acid plasmids with RNA polymerase. Cell-free production of the following proteins were used to assess posttranslational modifications: Escherichia coli
23353392|Lhx8, also named L3, is a recently identified member of the LIM homeobox gene family. Previously, we found acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive cells in fimbriafornix (FF) transected rat hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ). In the present study, we detected choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive cholinergic cells in hippocampal SGZ after FF transaction, and these ChAT-positive cells were double labeled by Lhx8. Then we overexpressed Lhx8 during neural differentiation of hippocampal neural stem/progenitor cells on adherent conditions using lentivirus Lenti6.3-Lhx8. The result indicated that overexpression of Lhx8 did not affect the proportion of MAP2-positive neurons, but increased the proportion of ChAT-positive cells in vitro. These results suggested that FF-transected hippocampal niche promoted the ChAT/Lhx8-positive cholinergic neurons generation in rodent hippocampus, and Lhx8 was not associated with the MAP2-positive neurons differentiation on adherent conditions, but played a role in the specification of cholinergic neurons derived from hippocampal neural stem/progenitor cells in vitro.
4294410|Chondrocytes isolated from the proliferative and differentiating zones of 3-wk-old chick growth plates were cultured in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and ascorbic acid for up to 21 d in a high cell density culture within Eppendorf tubes. The proliferative, differentiating, and calcification properties of the chondrocytes were examined by immunolocalization and by enzyme histochemical and biochemical methods. The cells maintained a chondrocyte phenotype throughout culture: they were round in shape and synthesized both collagen type II and proteoglycans. The expression of a hypertrophic phenotype was evident by Day 3 of culture and from this time onwards characteristics of terminal differentiation were observed. The cells were positive for both alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and c-myc protein and the surrounding matrix stained strongly for collagen type X. Small foci of mineralization associated with individual chondrocytes were first evident by Day 6 and more widespread areas of mineralization occupying large areas of matrix were present by Day 15. Mineralization occurred without the addition of exogenous phosphate to the medium. This culture system displays characteristics that are similar in both morphological and developmental terms to that of chick chondrocyte differentiation and calcification in vivo and therefore offers an excellent in vitro model for endochondral ossification.
40205867|Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are capable of self-renewing and differentiating into multiple tissues; they are expected to become a source of cells for regenerative therapy. Compared to allogeneic MSCs, autologous MSCs from patients needing cell-based therapy may be an ideal alternative stem cell source. However, characterizations of MSCs from a disease state remains extremely limited. Therefore, we have isolated and characterized MSCs from Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and compared them with MSCs derived from normal adult bone marrow. Our results show that PD-derived MSCs are similar to normal MSCs in phenotype, morphology, and multidifferentiation capacity. Moreover, PD-derived MSCs are capable of differentiating into neurons in a specific medium with up to 30% having the characteristics of dopamine cells. At last, PD-derived MSCs could inhibit T-lymphocyte proliferation induced by mitogens. These findings indicate that MSCs derived from PD patients' bone marrow may be a promising cell type for cellular therapy and somatic gene therapy applications.
4294722|A clone of the wild type (wt) Anticarsia gemmatalis multiple nuclear polyhedrosis virus AgMNPV, derived from a geographical isolate (Hondrina, Brazil) and designated AgMNPV-CL4-3A1, was used to determine the host range of this virus in six established lepidopteran cell lines: Anticarsia gemmatalis (BCIRL-AG-AM1), Helicoverpa zea (BCIRL-HZ-AM1), Heliothis virescens (BCIRL-HV-AM1), Helicoverpa armigera (BCIRL-HA-AM1), Trichoplusia ni (TN-CL1), Bombyx mori (BMN), and a coleopteran cell line Anthonomus grandis (BRL-AG-1). In addition, the in vivo host range of this clone was also assayed in larvae of Helicoverpa zea, Heliothis virescens, Trichoplusia ni, and the homologous species Anticarsia gemmatalis by probit analysis. On the basis of temporal studies of TCID
23279368|Sargassum fulvellum (Turner) C. Agardh is an edible brown macroalgae having pharmacological importance. In previous reports, we described the screening of marine algae for their neuritogenic activity in developing hippocampal neurons and found that ethanol extract of S. fulvellum (SFE) possesses promising neurite-outgrowth-promoting activity. In this study, we evaluated whether the initial neurite promoting effect of SFE was followed on the further neuronal maturation and synapse formation. SFE exhibited dose-dependent effect on neurite maturation with an optimum concentration of 5 g/mL. The initial neuronal differentiation is significantly promoted by SFE. Subsequently, compared with control culture, SFE increased the indices of axonal and dendritic developments such as the number and the length of primary processes, and branching frequencies. In addition to its effect on neurite development, SFE significantly increased the number of puncta for postsynaptic density-95, synaptic vesicle 2, and synapse (about 35%, 67%, and 125%, respectively, of control). Moreover, SFE dose-dependently protects neurons from naturally occurring death in normal culture condition. Taken together, our data demonstrate that SFE can promote neuronal maturation and synaptogenesis and support neuronal survival, suggesting the beneficial effect of this alga in nervous system.
40928184|The taeniid tapeworm Echinococcus granulosus is the causative agent of echinococcal disease, a major zoonosis with worldwide distribution. Several efforts to establish an in vitro model of E. granulosus have been undertaken; however, many of them have been designed for Echinococcus multilocularis. In the present study, we have described and characterized a stable cell line obtained from E. granulosus bovine protoscoleces maintained 3 yr in vitro. Growth characterization, morphology by light, fluorescent and electronic microscopy, and karyotyping were carried out. Cell culture origin was confirmed by immunofluorescent detection of AgB4 antigen and by PCR for the mitochondrial cytochrome c-oxidase subunit 1 (DCO1) gene. Cells seeded in agarose biphasic culture resembled a cystic structure, similar to the one formed in secondary hosts. This cell line could be a useful tool to research equinococcal behavior, allowing additional physiological and pharmacological studies, such as the effect of growth factors, nutrients, and antiparasitic drugs on cell viability and growth and on cyst formation.
4294310|Comparison of lytic-dose response behavior of seven lepidopteran cell lines to the activated delta-endotoxin polypeptides of Bacillus thuringiensis subspecies kurstaki (HD-263) and aizawai (HD-112) indicated distinct differences among the lines. The lines derived from Spodoptera species S. exigua (URC-SE-1A) and S. littoralis (UIV-SL-575) were more susceptible to lysis by aizawai toxin (Bta) than kurstaki toxin (Btk) as were cells from the Lymantria dispar line (IPLB-LD652Y). However, the concentrations of Bta required for lysis of 50% of URC-SE-1A and IPLB-LD652Y cells (LC
23481765|Genetically modified animals have numerous applications, ranging from basic research to livestock production and agriculture. Recent progress in animal cloning by nuclear transfer has made possible the production of transgenic animals using previously genetically modified cell lineages. However, to produce such lineages, an additional time for in vitro culturing and great manipulation is needed. Herein, we aimed to characterize different aspects of genetically modified cells compared to control cells, and we also analyzed the development rate of embryos produced by nuclear transfer by using them as nuclei donors after short or long periods of in vitro culturing (early versus late passages). We hypothesized that the genetic material inserted in the genome of these cells, associated with the prolonged time in culture, ultimately alters cell growth physiology and cell viability, which leads to impaired nuclei reprogramming potential and consequent reduction in the production of cloned blastocysts. Fetal fibroblasts expressing the enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein gene (eGFP) cultured for different periods in vitro were analyzed with respect to chromosomal numeric abnormalities, nuclear DNA fragmentation, the ratio of BAX and BCL2 gene transcripts, and the intensity of mitochondrial membrane potential, and they were then used as nuclei donors for somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). Early passages were defined as fewer than 11 passages, and late passages were 18th passage (18 th p) to 21 st p. No differences were observed in the percentage of cells with chromosomal abnormalities or in the mitochondrial membrane potential analysis. eGFP cells in late passages and control cells in early passages were not different regarding DNA fragmentation; however, control cells in late passages presented higher fragmentation (P<0.05). The Bax and Bcl2 gene expression ratio in control and transgenic cells presented different patterns regarding cell conditions during culture. For SCNT experiments, no difference was observed between groups reconstructed with early or late-passage cells when fusion (63.1% and 49%), cleavage (67.7% and 69.9%), eight-cell embryo (36.4% and 44.4%) and blastocyst (21.6% and 20.8%) rates were compared. In conclusion, culture behavior was different between control and eGFP cells. However, when different in vitro culturing periods were compared, long-term cultured transgenic fetal fibroblasts remained competent for blastocyst production when used as nuclei donors in the nuclear transfer technique, a feature needed for the genetic manipulation of cell culture experiments aiming for transgenic animal production.
40205905|The symbiotic octocoral Sinularia flexibilis is a producer of potential pharmaceuticals. Sustainable mass production of these corals as a source of such compounds demands innovative approaches, including coral cell culture. We studied various cell dissociation methodologies and the feasibility of cultivation of S. flexibilis cells on different media and cell dissociation methodologies. Mechanical dissociation of coral tissue always yielded the highest number of cells and allowed subsequent cellular growth in all treatments. The best results from chemical dissociation reagents were found with trypsin-ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid. Coral cells obtained from spontaneous dissociation did not grow. Light intensity was found to be important for coral cell culture showing an enduring symbiosis between the cultured cells and their intracellular algae. The Grace's insect medium and Grace's modified insect medium were found to be superior substrates. To confirm the similarity of the cultured cells and those in the coral tissue, a molecular test with Internal Transcribed Spacer primers was performed. Thereby, the presence of similar cells of both the coral cells and zooxanthella in different culture media was confirmed.
41408864|A new system for sustained release of growth factors, such as osteogenic protein 1 (OP-1) and transforming growth factor 1 (TGF-1), intended to repair and promote dental tissue regeneration in rats was designed and characterized in this work. The release system was made with microparticles of sodium alginate, produced by ionic gelling dripping technique. The release profiles of OP-1 and TGF-1 from biopolymer matrix were determined by highperformance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and with this purpose, an HPLC-UV method was developed. About 80% of each growth factor was released in the first 24 h, reaching almost 100% in 168 h. The system was tested during the tissue repair in rat molars in comparison with calcium hydroxide and both growth factors not encapsulated. The dentin sialoprotein (DSP) was used as a repair marker. It was detected by immunohistochemistry, after 14-and 28-d post-treatment. X2 test (p0.001) and Fisher exact test (p0.05) were applied for assessment of the amount of immunostaining. The treatment with encapsulated OP-1 showed an increased DSP immunostaining after 14 d and did not find any significant difference with the immunostaining observed for calcium hydroxide treatment. Treatment with TGF-1 did not show significant difference with calcium hydroxide. Treatment with both factors OP-1 and TGF-1 showed higher DSP immunostaining in comparison with calcium hydroxide treatment. In conclusion, the combination of both growth factors encapsulated showed more DSP immunostaining in comparison with each one separated, either encapsulated or not.
4294099| Effects of free hemin on myocardium were investigated using a model of neonatal myocyte primary cultures. Cells were subjected to free hemin at concentrations up to 20 M and equilibrated for 5 h at 37 C. Distribution of hemin in media, cell sarcolemma, and cell interior was evaluated. Time-dependent reduction in beating rate was monitored throughout the entire concentration range of administrated hemin. With time and in a hemin concentration-dependent manner, arrhythmic beatings which were followed by loss of contractility were observed. In parallel, morphologic changes appeared from granulation to complete loss of cell integrity. At the concentration range studied, hemin also induced a biphasic release of cytosolic enzymes. In the first phase, the fraction of enzyme released was dependent of the ratio of hemin:cells and was correlated with the amount of nonviable cells as monitored by a trypan blue test. In the second phase, the fraction of released enzyme was much larger than that of nonviable cells. The data are interpreted as an indication of complete loss of cytosolic content due to sarcolemma damage in first phase and partial damage to cell interior in the prolonged second phase. It is concluded that in similarity with other amphipathic molecules, free hemin is toxic to the myocardium. 
4295560|A key issue in human embryonic stem (ES) cell culture that has largely been ignored is the high degree of variability in the murine embryonic fibroblast (MEF) feeder cell density, which has been reported by different studies and protocols. Presumably, too low a feeder cell density would result in insufficient levels of secreted factors, extracellular matrix, and cellular contacts provided by the feeder cells for the maintenance of human ES cells in the undifferentiated state. Too high a feeder cell density, on the other hand, may result in a more rapid depletion of nutrients and oxygen within the in vitro culture milieu, as well as physically hinder the attachment and growth of ES colonies during serial passaging. Preliminary investigations by our group revealed that an elevated MEF cell density of 32,000 cells/cm
24712898|Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) such as TaqMan and SYBR Green qPCR are widely used for gene expression analysis. The drawbacks of SYBR Green assay are that the dye binds to any double-stranded DNA which can generate false-positive signals and that the length of the amplicon affects the intensity of the amplification. Previous results demonstrate that TaqMan assay is more sensitive but generates lower calculated expression levels than SYBR Green assay in quantifying seven mRNAs in tung tree tissues. The objective of this study is to expand the analysis using animal cells. We compared both qPCR assays for quantifying 24 mRNAs including those coding for glucose transporter (Glut) and mRNA-binding protein tristetraprolin (TTP) in mouse 3T3-L1 adipocytes and RAW264.7 macrophages. The results showed that SYBR Green and TaqMan qPCR were reliable for quantitative gene expression in animal cells. This result was supported by validation analysis of Glut and TTP family gene expression. However, SYBR Green qPCR overestimated the expression levels in most of the genes tested. Finally, both qPCR instruments (Bio-Rad's CFX96 real-time system and Applied Biosystems' Prism 7700 real-time PCR instrument) generated similar gene expression profiles in the mouse cells. These results support the conclusion that both qPCR assays (TaqMan and SYBR Green qPCR) and both qPCR instruments (Bio-Rad's CFX96 real-time system and Applied Biosystems' Prism 7700 real-time PCR instrument) are reliable for quantitative gene expression analyses in animal cells but SYBR Green qPCR generally overestimates gene expression levels than TaqMan qPCR.
4295196|Microgravity has been implicated to play a role in the observed immune dysfunction of astronauts and cosmonauts after either short-term or long-term space travel. These reports, together with studies describing increased levels of microorganisms in the space cabin environment suggest potential risk for in-flight incidences of infectious diseases. In order to understand the mechanism underlying these immune defects, it is important to have a ground-based model that would reliably mimic the effects of microgravity on antigen-specific immune function. We tested the utility of the rotating wall vessel (RWV) technology developed at NASA as a model system because in the RWV the culture medium and the cells rotate synchronously with the vessel, thereby creating simulated microgravity conditions. We compared the RWV to the conventional tissue culture flask (T-flask), for culturing immune precursor cells with cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity against synthetic viral peptides. We observed a significant loss of antigen-specific CTL activity in RWV cultures, but not in those from the T-flask, irrespective of the peptide immunogen used for inducing the primary immune response in different mouse strains. Loss of CTL activity in RWV cultures coincided with a significant reduction in CD8
23279342|Stem cell therapy is one of the most promising treatments in neuroregenerative medicine. Considering the role of the endogenous opioid system in controlling the pathophysiology of neurological disorders and behavioral aberrations, current studies have focused on enkephalins as a part of the opioid system. Due to high capability of unrestricted somatic stem cells (USSCs) and human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) for cell therapy and transplantation; here, we examined their enkephalinergic differentiation potential through Ikaros-related pathways in order to develop in vitro models to help drug screening and stem cell therapy for the opioid-related disorders. The authenticity of the stem cells was verified by differentiation experiments along with flow cytometry for surface markers. Later, we confirmed their neurogenic differentiation with semiquantitative and quantitative transcriptional and translational evaluations of the enkephalinergic-related genes such as proenkephalin, CREBZF, Ikaros, and prodynorphin. Our findings supported the enkephalinergic differentiation of these stem cells. Noteworthy, USSCs showed higher potential for differentiating into enkephalinergic neurons under Ikaros activation than hMSCs, which makes them appropriate for neurological therapeutic applications. In conclusion, this study suggests a powerful in vitro model for neurogenesis that may help clarification of enkephalinergic differentiation and related signaling networks along with neural drug screening. Such investigations may be beneficial to ameliorate the neural-related therapeutic approaches.
4294926| Nitric oxide (NO) is an inter- and intracellular messenger involved in a variety of physiologic and pathophysiologic conditions. The effect of two NO donors, sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) and their effect on myoblast proliferation was examined. Both donors stimulated an increase in myoblast cell number over a range (1-10 M) of donor concentrations. However, 50 M SNAP inhibited myoblast proliferation. Cell numbers from cultures treated with degraded 10 M SNAP were equivalent to the control. Therefore, it appears NO can stimulate as well as inhibit myoblast proliferation. 
20616588|An in vitro 3D model was developed utilizing a synthetic microgravity environment to facilitate studying the cell interactions. 2D monolayer cell culture models have been successfully used to understand various cellular reactions that occur in vivo. There are some limitations to the 2D model that are apparent when compared to cells grown in a 3D matrix. For example, some proteins that are not expressed in a 2D model are found up-regulated in the 3D matrix. In this paper, we discuss techniques used to develop the first known large, free-floating 3D tissue model used to establish tumor spheroids. The bioreactor system known as the High Aspect Ratio Vessel (HARVs) was used to provide a microgravity environment. The HARVs promoted aggregation of keratinocytes (HaCaT) that formed a construct that served as scaffolding for the growth of mouse melanoma. Although there is an emphasis on building a 3D model with the proper extracellular matrix and stroma, we were able to develop a model that excluded the use of matrigel. Immunohistochemistry and apoptosis assays provided evidence that this 3D model supports B16.F10 cell growth, proliferation, and synthesis of extracellular matrix. Immunofluorescence showed that melanoma cells interact with one another displaying observable cellular morphological changes. The goal of engineering a 3D tissue model is to collect new information about cancer development and develop new potential treatment regimens that can be translated to in vivo models while reducing the use of laboratory animals.
40928174|Radiation is known to potentially interfere with cellular functions at all levels of cell organization. The radiation-induced stress response is very complex and involves altered expression of many genes. Identification of specific genes may allow the determination of pathways important in radiation responses. Although several radiation-related research have been studied extensively, the molecular and cellular processes affected by proton exposure remain poorly understood. Our earlier reports have shown that proton radiation induces reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation and lipid peroxidation and inhibits antioxidants, Superoxide dismutase, and glutathione. Therefore, in this present study, we used quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction approach and showed the modulation of several genes including oxidative stress, antioxidants defense mechanism, ROS metabolism, and oxygen trans-porters related genes expression in 2-Gy proton-exposed mouse brain. Literature evidences suggest that change in oxidants and antioxidants levels induce DNA damage, followed by cell death. In conclusion, changes in the gene profile of mouse brain after proton irradiation are complex and the exposed cells might undergo programmed cell death through alteration of genes responsible for oxidative stress signaling mechanism.
4295309| In order to isolate new pathogens (viruses, microsporidia, etc.) or to evaluate the efficiency of some pathogens (sero-varieties and mutants of Bacillus thuringiensis, fungi, etc.) in the control of Colorado potato beetle, an economically important pest, we established four cell lines from tissues of this insect. One was initiated from embryonated egg fragments in the M3 medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and then transferred after several passages to the Ex-Cell 400 medium with 20% FBS. Another was initiated from larval hemocytes in Ex-Cell 400 with 5% FBS. Finally, two other cell lines were initiated from adult hemocytes: one in the Ex-Cell 400 with 20% FBS and 1% of lipid mixture and the other in the Ex-Cell 400 with 5% FBS only. These cell lines have been characterized by their morphology with light and electron microscopy, their karyotypes, cell growth, and isozyme analysis. Each cell line differed in morphologic, karyologic, growth, and isozyme patterns. The cell line initiated from embryonated eggs was growing slower than the three initiated from hemocytes. The cytotoxicity of solubilized crystal delta-endotoxins from different B. thuringiensis formulations (M-One, Trident, MYX-1806, Teknar-HPD, and Thuricide) and of destruxins, mycotoxins from Metarhizium anisopliae, was tested on these cell lines. They are sensitive to the solubilized toxins of some strains of B. thuringiensis (serovar. San Diego and serovar. tenebrionis) and to destruxins, and they can be used for the bioassay and detection of toxins and for the study of the mechanism of their action on coleopteran cells. 
4295014|A novel protein-free synthetic medium was developed for the culture of normal human oral keratinocytes. This medium, designated PFM-7, supports the serial cultivation of primary or secondary normal oral keratinocytes in protein-free, chemically defined conditions. Normal oral keratinocytes in PFM-7 exhibited nearly equal growth in mass culture without noticeable changes in morphology, response to added growth factors, or gene expression of growth factors and their receptors, compared to cells in Keratinocyte-SFM containing epidermal growth factor and bovine pituitary extract. Furthermore, PFM-7 supported the serial subcultivation of human squamous cell carcinoma cells and enabled both normal and malignant oral squamous cells derived from the same patient to grow under the same protein-free defined conditions. These results indicate that PFM-7 can be used for precise investigations of growth mechanisms, cell products, and gene expression associated with carcinogenesis of human epidermal cells.
41417642|The purpose of our study was to investigate the feasibility of using less-concentrated cryoprotectants supplemented with ice blocker Supercool X-1000 to vitrify ovarian tissues. Mouse ovaries were cryopreserved in different concentrations of vitrification solution alone or with Supercool X-1000, and fresh non-frozen ovaries were used as control. The proportions of morphological normality of follicles, normal GCs in follicular fluids and developing to blastocysts were higher in 12.5% ethylene glycol (EG)+ 12.5% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) with Supercool X-1000 than those of treated in 10% EG+ 10% DMSO or 15% EG+ 15% DMSO alone or with Supercool X-1000. In conclusion, the inclusion of Supercool X-1000 in less-concentrated vitrification solution was effective to improve the efficiency and efficacy of cryopreservation of ovarian tissues.
20616579|There is evidence that ergot alkaloids can directly interact with mammalian spermatozoa affecting sperm functions. Ergot alkaloids exert their toxic or pharmaceutical effects through membrane receptor-mediated activities. This study investigated the signaling pathways involved in the in vitro inhibitory effects of both ergotamine (ET) and dihydroergotamine (DEHT) on the relative motility of bovine spermatozoa using specific inhibitors. Motile bovine spermatozoa were prepared using a Percoll gradient and incubated with ergot alkaloids with and without signaling pathway inhibitors. Co-incubation of ET or DHET with 100 M prazosin (alpha 1-adrenergic receptor inhibitor) decreased (p<0.05) relative motility of spermatozoa when compared with controls. In addition, preincubation of spermatozoa with 10 or 20 M prazosin and DHET also reduced (p<0.05) the number of motile spermatozoa. Relative sperm motility (motility of treated spermatozoa normalized to control sperm motility) was increased (p<0.05) when co-incubations included ET and yohimbine (alpha 2-adrenergic receptor inhibitor); conversely, co-incubation of yohimbine (100 M) and DHET decreased (p<0.05) the percentage of motile spermatozoa when compared with controls. Pertussis toxin and cholera toxin (effectors of inhibitory and stimulatory G-proteins, respectively) altered (p<0.05) relative sperm motility in a concentration dependent manner; however, co-incubation of pertussis or cholera toxin with ergot alkaloids had no interactive (p=0.83) effects on the relative motility of spermatozoa. Co-incubation of Rp-cAMP (a membrane-permeable cAMP inhibitor) with 50 M DHET had no effect (p>0.05) on relative sperm motility; whereas, the co-incubation of 22.4 or 44.8 M Rp-cAMP with 50 M ET increased (p<0.05) the percentage of motile spermatozoa when compared with 0 or 224 M Rp-cAMP (49%, 65%, 59%, and 54%, respectively, for 0, 22.4, 44.8, and 224 M of Rp-cAMP. An interaction between BAPTA-AM (a chelator of intracellular calcium) and alkaloids also impacted (p<0.05) relative sperm motility. Generally, co-incubating spermatozoa with BAPTA-AM and ET increased the percentage of motile spermatozoa; however, co-incubation with DHET decreased relative sperm motility except with 41 M BAPTA-AM. Collectively, these observations suggest that ET and DHET decreased the percentage of motile bovine spermatozoa via alpha adrenergic receptors. However, the second messenger systems involved with ergot alkaloid inhibition of relative motility of bovine spermatozoa remain to be elucidated.
20616546|The human HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cell line has been widely used as a model for studying granulocytic differentiation. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) treatment of HL-60 cells promotes granulocytic differentiation and is effective as differentiation therapy for patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. The identification of genes that are transcriptionally regulated by ATRA has provided insight into granulocytic differentiation and differentiation therapy. The Asb-2 (ankyrin repeat SOCS box 2) gene has previously been identified as a transcriptional target in ATRA-treated HL-60 cells. The ASB-2 protein forms an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex with the proteins, Cul5, regulator of cullin 2 (ROC2), and elongin B and C. The purpose of this study was to determine if there is increased expression of Cul5 during granulocytic differentiation of HL-60 cells. To induce granulocytic differentiation, HL-60 cells were treated for 5 d with ATRA and differentiation was confirmed by examining superoxide anion production, nuclear morphology, and changes in the expression of CD11b, CD13, and CD15. Quantitative realtime RT-PCR was used to measure Cul5 mRNA expression and also the expression of other components of the E3 ubiquitin ligase (ASB-2, ROC2, elongin B and C). Granulocytic differentiation of HL-60 cells was associated with a 1.6-, 1.7-, and 23-fold statistically significant (P0.05) increase in mRNA expression for Cul5, ROC2, and ASB-2, respectively. No significant change was found in elongin B and C mRNA expression. Using Western blot analysis, the expression of Cul5 protein was increased 6.5-fold with granulocytic differentiation of the HL-60 cells. Increased expression of multiple components of the Cul5-containing E3 ubiquitin ligase complex with ATRA treatment of HL-60 cells indicates that this complex may play an important role in granulocytic differentiation.
20172231|During angiogenesis, the microvasculature displays both vessel remodeling and expansion under the control of both cellular and extracellular influences. We have evaluated the role of angiogenic and angiostatic molecules on angiogenesis in an in vitro model that more appropriately duplicates the cellular and extracellular components of this process. Freshly isolated microvessel fragments from rat adipose tissue (RFMF) were cultured within three-dimensional collagen I gels. These fragments were characterized at the time of isolation and were composed of vessel segments observed in the microvasculature of fat in situ (i.e., arterioles, venules, and capillaries). Fragments also exhibited characteristic ablumenally associated cells including smooth muscle cells and pericytes. Finally, fragments were encased in an extracellular matrix composed of collagen type IV and collagen type I/III. The elongation of microvascular elements was subsequently evaluated using morphologic and immunocytochemical techniques. The proliferation, migration, and elongation of cellular elements in microvessel fragments from rat adipose tissue was dependent on initial fragment density, matrix density, and required serum. Inclusion of endothelial cell growth factors to microvessel fragments from rat adipose tissue 3-D cultures resulted in the accelerated elongation of tube structures and the expression of von Willebrand factor in cells constituting these tubes. Molecules with reported angiostatic capacity (e.g., transforming growth factor and hydrocortisone) inhibited vessel tube elongation. In vitro methods have been developed to evaluate numerous mechanisms associated with angiogenesis, including endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and phenotypic modulation. Microvascular endothelial cell fragments described in this study represent an in vitro population of cells that accurately duplicate the in vivo microcirculatory elements of fat. The proliferation of cells and elongation of microvascular elements subsequently observed in three-dimensional cultures provides an in vitro model of angiogenesis. Microvascular formation in this system results from pre-existing microvessel fragments unlike tube formation observed when cultured endothelial cells are placed in three-dimensional gels. This form of tube formation from cultured endothelium is more characteristic of vasculogenesis. Thus, the formation of microvascular elements from microvessel fragments provides the opportunity to examine the mechanisms regulating angiogenesis in an in vitro system amenable to precise experimental manipulation.
20172234|High resolution two-dimensional gel electrophoresis was used to quantitatively analyze the patterns of protein synthesis in three different clones of a nerve cell line (ML-DmBG2) of Drosophila melanogaster. When patterns of pulse-labeled proteins of the three different clones were compared, I observed quantitative variations affecting the rate of synthesis by twofold or more in 25-30% of the polypeptides and qualitative differences, always affecting less than 2% of the polypeptides. Patterns of protein synthesis were analyzed during the 24 d of culture, revealing both quantitative (increase or decrease; 40%) and qualitative (presence or absence; 3%) differences. More than 70 proteins synthesized in these cultures were secreted into the medium. Among them were two major groups of acidic proteins which disappeared with culture time. When cell lines and intact central nervous systems were compared, large differences in protein synthesis were observed. In fact, only 20% of the synthesized proteins were common to both isolated cells grown in vitro and the original nervous system in vivo.
4295166|Prolonged exposure of humans and experimental animals to the altered gravitational conditions of space flight has adverse effects on the lymphoid and erythroid hematopoietic systems. Although some information is available regarding the cellular and molecular changes in lymphocytes exposed to microgravity, little is known about the erythroid cellular changes that may underlie the reduction in erythropoiesis and resultant anemia. We now report a reduction in erythroid growth and a profound inhibition of erythropoietin (Epo)-induced differentiation in a ground-based simulated microgravity model system. Rauscher murine erythroleukemia cells were grown either in tissue culture vessels at 1 x g or in the simulated microgravity environment of the NASA-designed rotating wall vessel (RWV) bioreactor. Logarithmic growth was observed under both conditions; however, the doubling time in simulated microgravity was only one-half of that seen at 1 x g. No difference in apoptosis was detected. Induction with Epo at the initiation of the culture resulted in differentiation of approximately 25% of the cells at 1 x g, consistent with our previous observations. In contrast, induction with Epo at the initiation of simulated microgravity resulted in only one-half of this degree of differentiation. Significantly, the growth of cells in simulated microgravity for 24 h prior to Epo induction inhibited the differentiation almost completely. The results suggest that the NASA RWV bioreactor may serve as a suitable ground-based microgravity simulator to model the cellular and molecular changes in erythroid cells observed in true microgravity.
20869580|Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most professional antigen-presenting cells of the mammalian immune system. They are able to phagocytize, process antigen materials, and then present them to the surface of other cells including T lymphocytes in the immune system. These capabilities make DC therapy become a novel and promising immune-therapeutic approach for cancer treatment as well as for cancer vaccination. Many trials of DC therapy to treat cancers have been performed and have shown their application value. They involve harvesting monocytes or hematopoietic stem cells from a patient and processing them in the laboratory to produce DCs and then reintroduced into a patient in order to activate the immune system. DCs were successfully produced from peripheral, umbilical cord blood-derived monocytes or hematopoietic stem cells. In this research, we produced DCs from human menstrual blood-derived monocytes. Briefly, monocytes were isolated by FACS based on FSC vs. SSC plot from lysed menstrual blood. Obtained monocytes were induced into DCs by a two-step protocol. In the first step, monocytes were incubated in RPMI medium supplemented with 2% FBS, GM-CSF, and IL-4, followed by incubation in RPMI medium supplemented with -TNF in the second step. Our data showed that induced monocytes had typical morphology of DCs, expressed HLA-DR, HLA-ABC, CD80 and CD86 markers, exhibited uptake of dextran-FITC, stimulated allogenic T cell proliferation, and released IL-12. These results demonstrated that menstrual blood can not only be a source of stromal stem cell but also DCs, which are a potential candidate for immune therapy.
4294748|In vivo, fibroblasts are distributed in a three-dimensional (3-D) connective tissue matrix. Fibronectin is a major product of fibroblasts in routine cell culture and is thought to regulate many aspects of fibroblast biology. In this context, we sought to determine if the interaction of fibroblasts with a 3-D matrix might affect fibronectin production. To examine this hypothesis, fibronectin production by fibroblasts cultured in a 3-D collagen gel or on plastic dishes was measured by ELISA. Fibroblasts in 3-D gel culture produced more fibronectin than those in monolayer culture. Fibroblasts in 3-D culture produced increasing amounts of fibronectin when the collagen concentration of the gel was increased. The 3-D nature of the matrix appeared to be crucial because plating the fibroblasts on the surface of a plastic dish underneath a collagen gel was not different from plating them on a plastic dish in the absence of collagen. In addition to increased fibronectin production, the distribution of the fibronectin produced in 3-D culture was different from that of monolayer culture. In monolayer culture, more than half of the fibronectin was released into the culture medium. In 3-D culture, however, approximately two-thirds remained in the collagen gel. In summary, the presence of a 3-D collagen matrix increases fibroblast fibronectin production and results in greater retention of fibronectin in the vicinity of the producing cells.
24596450|A new cell line was successfully obtained from caudal fin tissue of the economically important freshwater fish Chitala chitala. The cell line was optimally maintained at 28C in Leibovitz's L-15 supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The effects of temperature and concentration of FBS on the growth of CF cells were examined. The CF cell line consisted predominantly of fibroblastic-like cells. Moderately low plating efficiencies 8%, 11%, and 17% were observed, with CF cell line in L-15 Medium with 20% FBS. Chromosomal analysis of the cell line revealed a diploid number of 42 chromosomes in C. chitala. Molecular characterization of mitochondrial 16S rRNA and cytochrome oxidase subunit I confirmed the origin of the cell line. The cells were successfully cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen (196C) for 6 mo, and more than 8590% of CF cells were revived.
41318696|Solubilizing agents are routinely added when investigating the biotransformation of lipophilic substrates using hepatic microsomes. For highly lipophilic compounds, the concentration of solvent or surfactant necessary for dissolution can be detrimental to enzyme activity. This study evaluates the effect of 12 surfactants on microsomal metabolism and the ability of the same surfactants to improve the aqueous solubility of the pentabrominated diphenyl ether BDE-100, a lipophilic environmental contaminant previously found to be recalcitrant to in vitro metabolism. Of the surfactants investigated, Cremophor EL and Tween 80 displayed the best combination of increased BDE-100 solubility and minimal inhibition of microsomal metabolism. However, a comparison of the in vitro metabolism products of BDE-100 in the presence of the two surfactants revealed varying amounts of metabolites depending on the surfactant used.
40205874|Tissue-engineered heart muscle may provide an alternative treatment modality for end-stage congestive heart failure. We have previously described a method to engineer contractile heart muscle in vitro (termed cardioids). This study describes a method to improve the contractile properties of cardioids utilizing thyroid hormone (T3) stimulation. Cardioids were engineered by promoting the self-organization of primary neonatal cardiac cells into a contractile tissue construct. Cardioids were maintained in standard cell culture media supplemented with varying concentrations of T3 in the range 1-5ng/ml. The contractile properties of the cardioids were evaluated 48h after formation. Stimulation with T3 resulted in an increase in the specific force of cardioids from an average value of 0.52  0.16kPa (N = 6) for control cardioids to 2.42  0.29kPa (N = 6) for cardioids stimulated with 3ng/ml T3. In addition, there was also an increase in the rate of contraction and relaxation in response to T3 stimulation. Cardioids that were stimulation with T3 exhibited improved pacing characteristics in response to electrical pacing at 1-5Hz and an increase in the degree of spontaneous contractility. Changes in the gene expression of SERCA2, phospholamban, -myosin heavy chain, and -myosin heavy chain correlated with the changes in contractile properties. This study demonstrates the modulation of the contractile properties of tissue-engineered heart muscle using T3 stimulation.
40802400|Angiogenesis is a hallmark of expanding tissue e.g. during embryogenesis and wound healing in physiology as well as in diseases such as cancer and atherosclerosis. Key steps of the angiogenic process involve growth factor-mediated stimulation of endothelial cell sprouting and tube formation. Heparan sulphate proteoglycans (HSPGs) have been implicated as important co-receptors of several pro-angiogenic proteins. The importance of HSPGs in physiology was underscored by the finding that knockout of the gene encoding HS polymerase, EXT-1, resulted in early embryonic lethality. Here, we describe the establishment of HS-deficient endothelial cells from sprouting aortas as well as from the lungs of EXT-1 flox/flox mice. Recombination of the loxP-flanked EXT-1 locus by Creexpressing adenovirus was demonstrated at the mRNA level. Moreover, depletion of HS polysaccharides was verified by flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy methodology using phage display-derived anti-HS antibodies. In summary, we provide a genetic model to unravel the functional role of HSPGs specifically in primary endothelial cells during early steps of angiogenesis. Our studies are applicable to most loxP-based transgenic mouse strains, and may thus be of general importance in the angiogenesis field.
23481785|Mitotically inactivated feeder cells such as mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEFs) cells have been widely applied for physical and physiological support in the pluripotency maintenance of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs). However, accurate supporting mechanism or factors of feeder cells are poorly understood. Here, we isolated differentially expressed genes between wild-type MEFs and mitotically inactivated MEFs (miMEFs) by employing annealing control primer-based GeneFishing polymerase chain reaction. We identified a secreted protein acidic cysteine-rich glycoprotein (SPARC) gene that is upregulated in miMEFs. Suppression of SPARC expression in miMEFs using small interference RNA (siRNA) displayed gradual detachment of miMEFs. Furthermore, we found a significant reduction of OCT4- and SSEA3-positive hPS cell population maintained on SPARC siRNA-miMEFs compared to on miMEFs by flow cytometrical analysis. These findings suggest that SPARC plays a critical role in the maintenance of miMEFs without loss of cell number and might be a key component for supporting the culture of hPSCs.
4295412|Pupal ovaries of the wild oak silkworm Antheraea yamamai Guerin-Meneville were cultured in MGM-448 (Modified Grace Medium-448) medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum. After the primary culture was set up in 1988, a continuous cell line was obtained in 1991, designated as NISES-Anya-0611 (Anya-0611). The population doubling time was 54 hrs. and 19 min. at 96 passages and 88 hrs. and 29 min. at 387 passages. Spindle-shaped and spherical cells coexisted in the cell group. The cell line karyotype line was typical of lepidopteran cell lines, consisting of numerous small chromosomes. The cell line was distinguished from other lepidopteran cell lines by comparing malic enzyme, phosphoglucose isomerase, phosphoglucose mutase, and isocitric dehydrogenase isozyme patterns. The cell line was highly infected to the Antheraea yamamai nuclear polyhedrosis virus (Anya NPV). The luciferase gene of recombinant Bm NPV (BmNPVP6ETL) was able to express in the cell line, too, so that luciferase recombinant products were able to be detected in the cell body and in supernatant. The Anya NPV clone group was isolated on the cell seat using plaque purification.
4295367| Our objective was to determine whether H-Type 1 carbohydrate antigen is expressed by ovine endometrial epithelial cells. Endometrium was obtained from sheep on days (D) 1, 5, 11, 13, and 15 of the estrous cycle or pregnancy and D17 and D19 of pregnancy. Immunofluorescence microscopy of frozen tissue sections revealed intense staining on the apical surface of glandular uterine epithelial (GE) cells from Dll to D17 of pregnancy. Light punctate staining of luminal uterine epithelial (LE) cells was present from D15 to D19 of pregnancy, with isolated areas of intense staining observed only on D15 of pregnancy. There were no noticeable differences in staining patterns on equivalent d of the estrous cycle. Immortalized sheep LE and GE cells were used to determine whether estradiol (E), progesterone (P), or E + P, with or without interferon tau (IFN), regulates H-Type 1 antigen expression in vitro. Intermittent punctate surface staining was observed on both cell lines independent of steroid treatment. Treatment with P or IFN increased H-Type 1 antigen expression (P < 0.01) and resulted in large aggregates of punctate staining. Domain-specific biotinylation and Western blotting of cell lysates from LE and GE cells were used to identify proteins carrying the H-Type 1 antigen. For both cell types, major immunoreactive apical membrane proteins were detected at 31, 33, 42, 55, 60, and 70 kDa. Therefore, the H-type 1 antigen is expressed mainly on GE cells during pregnancy recognition in utero and up-regulated by P and IFN on LE and GE cells in vitro. 
4294373|Selected strains of vascular endothelial cells, grown as confluent monolayers on tissue culture plastic, generate flat networks of cellular cords that resemble beds of capillaries-a phenomenon referred to as "spontaneous angiogenesis in vitro". We have studied spontaneous angiogenic activity by a clonal population (clone A) of bovine aortic endothelial cells to indentify processes that mediate the development of cellular networks. Confluent cultures of clone A endothelial cells synthesized type I collagen, a portion of which was incorporated into narrow, extracellular cables that formed a planar network beneath the cellular monolayer. The collagenous cables acted as a template for the development of cellular networks: flattened, polygonal cells of the monolayer that were in direct contact with the cables acquired spindle shapes, associated to form cellular cords, and became elevated above the monolayer. Networks of cables and cellular cords did not form in a strain of bovine aortic endothelial cells that did not synthesize type I collagen, or when traction forces generated by clone A endothelial cells were inhibited with cytochalasin D. In a model of cable development, tension applied by a confluent monolayer of endothelial cells reorganized a sheetlike substrate of malleable type I collagen into a network of cables via the formation and radial enlargement of perforations through the collagen sheet. Our results point to a general involvement of extracellular matrix templates in two-dimensional (planar) models of vascular development in vitro. For several reasons, planar models simulate invasive angiogenesis poorly. In contrast, planar models might offer insights into the growth and development of planar vascular systems in vivo.
4295580|More than 90 different micro-ribonucleic acid (miRNA) encoding genes have been identified in Drosophila, yet the function of only two of these, bantam and DmiR-14, has been elucidated. In an effort to develop a general strategy for the analysis of miRNA function in Drosophila, two procedures were developed, in a Schneider line 2 cell culture system, which may be adapted to that end. First, we show that endogenous miRNAs can partially inhibit the expression of a transiently transfected reporter gene that has been modified to contain sequences complementary to that miRNA in the 3' UTR of a target messenger RNA (mRNA). Inhibition occurs by RNA interference (RNAi), which involves mRNA degradation. Second, we demonstrate that this miRNA-induced RNAi can be partially rescued with 2'-O-methyl oligonucleotides that contain sequences complementary to the cognate miRNA. We discuss how these techniques may be used, in vivo, both for localizing the tissue distribution of endogenous miRNAs during Drosophila development and identifying phenotypes associated with a loss of miRNA function.
4294534|The effects of mycoplasma infection on the biosynthesis of endothelin-1 (ET-1) in cultured human vascular endothelial cell lines were examined to understand regulatory mechanisms of ET-1 biosynthesis and causes of angiopathy due to mycoplasma infection. The growth of normal endothelial cells from the umbilical cord vein and of an immortal endothelial cell line transfected with prepro ET-1 cDNA was decreased, while the secretion of ET-1 into the culture medium was enhanced by mycoplasma infection. However, the rate of ET-1 production in these cell cultures was much higher at the growing phase than at the stationary phase. Immunocytochemical studies with anti-ET-1 antibody and an autoradiographic examination of the labeled nuclei with
20172142|A serial cultivation system of hepatocytes was established for the first time using calf liver as a cell source and, repeating passage of more than 30 cumulative population doublings (PDs), was obtained in the presence of long-acting ascorbic acid derivative (L-ascorbic acid 2-phosphate) and epidermal growth factor. The complete purification of hepatocytes was achieved by repeating ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) treatment, by which hepatocytes were easily detached from the culture dish, leaving most of the nonparenchymal cells on the dish. As the population cumulatively doubled, the cell density and albumin-synthesizing ability decreased gradually, and doubling time has exceeded 120 h at about 30 cumulative PDs. In serially passaged cells, the hepatocyte-specific histochemical and biochemical markers--including glucose-6-phosphatase, ornithine carbamoyltransferase, glutamate dehydrogenase, and ammonia-metabolizing activities--have been lost after 20 cumulative PDs. However, when these passaged cells were allowed to form spheroids, the morphologic and biochemical characteristics of hepatocytes have rapidly been restored to levels comparable to those in younger generations. Because no extrinsic factor was needed for this restoration, three-dimensional cell-cell interaction would be indispensable for the differentiation of the hepatocytes. The routine serial cultivation of hepatocytes and their redifferentiation by spheroid formation will be useful for studying metabolism, gene regulation, and transplantation of hepatocytes.
4295130|Stromal-epithelial interactions play a profound role in regulating normal and tumor development in the mammary gland. The molecular details of these events, however, are incompletely understood. A novel serum-free transwell coculture system was developed to study the natural paracrine interactions between mammary epithelial cells (MEC) and mammary fibroblasts (MFC) isolated from normal rats during puberty. The MEC were cultured within a reconstituted basement membrane (RBM) in transwell inserts with or without MFC in the lower well. The presence of MFC stimulated epithelial cell growth, induced alveolar morphogenesis, and enhanced casein accumulation, a marker of the functional differentiation of MEC, but did not induce ductal morphogenesis. Potent mitogenic, morphogenic, and lactogenic effects were observed when the MFC were cultured either on plastic or within a layer of RBM. Although most MFC maintained on plastic died after 1 wk in serum-free medium, fibroblast survival was enhanced significantly when the MFC were cultured within the RBM. Taken together, this in vitro model effectively reconstitutes a physiologically relevant three-dimensional microenvironment for MEC and MFC, and seems ideal for studying the locally derived factors that regulate the developmental fate of the epithelial and fibroblast compartments of the mammary gland.
4294308| The TGF family of genes has been shown to play an important role in regulating various aspects of development, although the mechanisms by which TGF exerts its effects have not yet been clarified. Growth and differentiation of both murine embryonic palate mesenchymal (MEPM) cells and palatal epithelium can be regulated by the TGFs. We therefore examined the expression of mRNAs encoding TGF1, TGF2, and TGF3 in developing embryonic palatal tissue as well as factors that modulate their levels of expression. Northern blot analysis of RNA isolated from murine embryonic palatal tissue on gestational days (GD) 12, 13, and 14 demonstrated the presence of one mRNA transcript for TGF1 (2.5 kb), two transcripts for TGF2 (4.4 kb, 6.0 kb), and one transcript for TGF3 (3.5 kb). Although steady-state levels of TGF1 mRNA showed no changes during development of the palate, TGF2 mRNA levels were maximal on both GD13 and GD14 and TGF3 mRNA levels transiently increased on GD 13. In addition, levels of TGF3 mRNA seemed much higher than either TGF1 or TGF2. both TGF1 and TGF2 were able to increase, in a dose-related manner, the expression of TGF3 mRNA in murine embryonic palate mesenchymal cells in vitro. In contrast, epidermal growth factor (EGF) down-regulated the expression of TGF3 mRNA even in the presence of TGFl or TGF2. Elevation of intracellular levels of cAMP in MEPM cells in vitro resulted in a time-dependent transient increase in steady-state levels of TGF3 mRNA with maximal expression by 30 min. Furthermore, steady-state levels of TGF3 mRNA increased in embryonic palatal tissue in vivo after administration of retinoic acid. These data suggest that TGF3 is developmentally regulated in embryonic palatal tissue and that its expression may be modulated via both autoregulatory pathways, other signaling peptides, or the cAMP cascade. Thus, the protein product of one regulatory gene involved in signal transduction during development of the mammalian palate can affect the expression of another regulatory gene. 
4295635|Serial passaging of wild-type Helicoverpa armigera single-nucleocapsid nucleopolyhedrovirus (HaSNPV) in H. zea (Hz-AM1) insect cell cultures results in rapid selection for the few polyhedra (FP) phenotype. A unique HaSNPV mutant (ppC19) was isolated through plaque purification that exhibited a partial many polyhedra (MP) and FP phenotype. On serial passaging in suspension cell cultures, ppC19 produced fivefold more polyhedra than a typical FP mutant (FP8AS) but threefold less polyhedra than the wild-type virus. Most importantly, the polyhedra of ppC19 exhibited MP-like virion occlusion. Furthermore, ppC19 produced the same amount of budded virus (BV) as the FP mutant, which was fivefold higher than that of the wild-type virus. This selective advantage was likely to explain its relative stability in polyhedra production for six passages when compared with the wild-type virus. However, subsequent passaging of ppC19 resulted in a steep decline in both BV and polyhedra yields, which was also experienced by FP8AS and the wild-type virus at high passage numbers. Genomic deoxyribonucleic acid profiling of the latter suggested that defective interfering particles (DIPs) were implicated in this phenomenon and represented another undesirable mutation during serial passaging of HaSNPV. Hence, a strategy to isolate HaSNPV clones that exhibited MP-like polyhedra production but FP-like BV production, coupled with low multiplicities of infection during scale-up to avoid accumulation of DIPs, could prove commercially invaluable.
4294132| Lysozyme at 1 to 100 g/ml of exposure levels augmented or inhibited proliferative response of human peripheral blood lymphocytes stimulated with interleukin-2 (IL-2). This contradictory effect of lysozyme depended on IL-2 concentration, activating state of lymphocytes, addition time of lysozyme, and serum existence. Lymphocytes increased their IL-2-mediated proliferating ability in response to lysozyme when stimulated with less than suboptimal concentration of IL-2. Lymphocyte activation with anti-CD3 antibody changed the augmented proliferative response into the inhibited response by lysozyme addition whereas elimination of MHC class II molecule-expressing cells augmented the response. Addition of lysozyme within 1 h after IL-2 exposure was most effective in promoting the proliferation whereas additions after 16 to 24 h were ineffective or inhibitory. Addition after longer than 24 h inversely restored the proliferative response. Serum seemed to retard lysozyme action because either sequential serum addition 1 h after exposure of IL-2 and lysozyme to cells or exposure of IL-2 and serum after pretreatment of cells with lysozyme changed the proliferative responsiveness from inhibition into augmentation. Thus lysozyme may regulate lymphocyte proliferation responding to a magnitude of antigenic stimuli and to the progression of cellular events that periodically occur. 
20616602|Orthodontic force compresses the periodontal ligament promoting the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and matrix metalloproteinases responsible for tooth movement. The extent in time while periodontal cells are being treated and the increment in the amount of mechanical stress caused by the orthodontic force is thought to regulate the levels of metalloproteinases in the periodontal tissue. To study the possible regulation in the activity of metalloproteinases 2, 3, 7, 9, and 10 by simulated orthodontic force, human periodontal ligament fibroblast cultures were centrifuged (141g) for 30, 60, 90, and 120 min, simulating the orthodontic force. Cell viability, protein quantification, and activity of metalloproteinases by zymography were evaluated at 24, 48, and 72 h after centrifugation in both cell lysates and growth medium. The activity of the 72-kDa matrix metalloproteinase 2 was decreased at 24 h regardless of the duration of centrifugation and at 48 h in cells centrifuged for 30 min only. Decrease in the amount of total protein in lysates was seen at 48 and 72 h with no change in cell viability. The data seem to indicate that the amount of mechanical stress regulates the levels of secreted matrix metalloproteinase 2. In addition, the centrifugation as a model for simulated orthodontic force may be used as a simple and reliable method to study the role played by matrix metalloproteinases in periodontal ligament when submitted to mechanical force as occurring during tooth movement.
41511612|The POU-domain transcription factor Pou5fl (Oct-4) is involved in transcriptional regulation during early embryonic development and cell differentiation. Despite highly conserved genomic organization of Oct-4 gene in mammals, expression pattern of Oct-4 is highly variable in different species. In the present study, expression pattern of Oct-4 in buffalo blastocyst, trophoectoderm (TE), and embryonic stem cells (ESCs) was investigated. For the derivation and characterization of buffalo ESCs, inner cell masses (ICMs) were isolated from 18 hatched and 21 expanded in vitro produced buffalo blastocyst and cultured over mitomycin-C-treated buffalo fetal fibroblast feeder layer. Alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity, SSEA-1 and 4, TRA 1-60 and 1-81, and Oct-4 proteins were localized in ICM, TE, and ESCs. Quantification of Oct-4 was done by amplifying a transcript of 125 base pairs by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Primary cell colony formation was higher (P< 0.05) in hatched blastocyst (83.33%, 15/18) compared to mechanically isolated ICMs from expanded blastocyst (52.38%, 11/21). Undifferentiated buffalo ESCs were positive for AP and expressed Oct-4, SSEA-1 and 4, TRA-1-60, and TRA-1-81 proteins. Oct-4 transcripts and proteins were detected in the ICM, TE cells and were invariably present in ESCs; however, expression level of Oct-4 transcript were significantly higher in ICM and ESCs as compared to TE cells. In conclusion, expression of Oct-4 is not only restricted to the ICM and ESCs but its expression was also detected in TE cells suggesting that instead of using Oct-4 as a single marker, it is better to have other flanking molecular markers for the identification of buffalo pluripotent embryonic stem cells.
4294557| This study examined the behavior of rat tendon fibroblasts, baby hamster kidney fibroblasts, macrophage-like P388D1 cells, and neurons from rat dorsal root ganglia, cultured on fibronectin strands 0.2-5 m in diameter. We investigated cell spreading, orientation, formation of focal contacts, the speed of cell movement, and the speed of neurite outgrowth in cells cultured on fibronectin strands, glass covered with fibronectin, and plain, nontreated glass. Fibronectin strands significantly promoted cell spreading and caused a marked alignment of all kinds of cells to the direction of the fiber. The fibers caused the alignment of actin filaments in fibroblasts and focal contacts in fibroblasts and macrophages and increased polymerization of F-actin in cells. Fibronectin fibers also increased the speed and persistence of cell movement and the rate of neurite outgrowth. Macrophages grown on fibronectin fibers produced numerous actin-rich microspikes and adopted a polarized, migratory phenotype. These findings indicate that fibronectin strands, resembling natural components of the extracellular matrix, are more effective in activating various types of cells than two-dimensional, fibronectin-covered substrata. The results also confirm the suitability of the three-dimensionally oriented fibronectin form for use in clinical practice. 
20172263| Angiotensin II (AII), the principal mediator of the renin-angiotensin system, is an important regulator of vascular and cardiac homeostasis. AII has also been shown to be a regulator of cardiac hypertrophy and of the corresponding changes in amount and composition of certain tissue proteins. We examined the trophic effects of AII on cultured myocytes derived from neonatal rat ventricles and followed, by Northern blot analysis and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the expression of - and -myosin heavy chain iso-mRNAs and isoproteins. Our findings show that a single administration of AII is sufficient to induce a trophic response in cultured beating myocytes and to enhance the expression of -myosin heavy chain iso-mRNA and isoprotein, having no effect on -myosin heavy chain. Induction of -myosin heavy chain expression by thyroid hormone before AII was administered showed that AII could not potentiate a shift from - to -myosin heavy chain predominance. We suggest that the potency of AII to regulate the expression of myosin heavy chain isogenes is restricted to the  isoform and is overridden by thyroid hormone. 
4295009|Numerous musculoskeletal disorders which occur during pregnancy require an effective, nonpharmacological treatment that is known to have no adverse effects on fetal development. The present report describes morphological and histological changes occurring in fetal mouse limbs maintained in a serum-free organ culture system. Limbs maintained in this organ culture system show a progressive rise in limb dimensions including surface area, perimeter, and limb length. Histological analysis of serial cross sections of the limbs revealed a statistically significant increase in histological scores of limb development, thickness of epidermal layer, and amount of collagen deposited in the bone and dermis of limbs by Day 4 of culture. Therefore, this in vitro model combined with contemporary computer image analysis represents an excellent experimental model which can be used readily to examine the effects of therapeutic modalities on the growth and development of many different organ systems.
4294868|Studies of brain microvessel endothelial cell physiology and blood-brain barrier properties are often hampered by the requirement of repeatedly producing and characterizing primary endothelial cell cultures. The use of viral oncogenes to produce several immortalized brain microvessel cell lines has been reported. The resulting cell lines express many properties of the blood-brain barrier phenotype but do not completely mimic primary endothelial cells in culture. As immortalized brain microvessel endothelial cell lines have not yet been produced from mice, we transformed mouse brain endothelial cells with the adenovirus E1A gene using a retroviral vector (DOL). Eight of 11 clones produced exhibited an endothelial-like cobblestone morphology and were characterized as endothelial with a panel of antibodies, lectins, and ultrastructural criteria. These cells are endothelial in origin and share ultrastructural features with primary cultures of endothelial cells. Examination of freeze fracture and transmission electron micrographs show adherens junctions exist between the transformed cells, and culture in astrocyte-conditioned medium induces the formation of gap junctions. This is one indication that responses to astrocyte-derived factors are retained by the transformed cell lines.
4294414|We have described the protocols and characterization of a pituicyte culture, which became established as a reliable and reproducible bioassay for the secretion of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). The bioassay was used to measure the bioactivity of factors that inhibit and stimulate gonadotrophin secretion. The protocol that was used involved the culling of female Wistar rats (200 to 250 g weight), at random stages of their cycle, and dispersal of their pituicytes in a concentration of
4295351|A new cell line from the embryonic tissue of Helicoverpa armigera was established and designated as NIV-HA-197. It was maintained in TNM-FH medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. The cell line at passage 20 had a heterogeneous population of cells consisting of mainly epithelial-like cells (70%), followed by fibroblast-like (27%), and multinucleated giant (3%) cells. The chromosome number ranged from 45 to 185. The growth curve at passage 40 showed a fivefold increase in cell number with a population-doubling time of approximately 60 h. The cell line was found infected with the microsporidium Nosema heliothids at passage 9. Using the antiprotozoan drug Metrogyl 400 and simultaneous heat treatment, the parasite was removed from the culture. The cell line can be cryopreserved for 30 mo. The species specificity of the new cell line was determined by studying the isoenzyme profile of four enzymes, viz., lactate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and by heteroduplex analysis. Heteroduplex analysis was used to analyze the mitochondrial 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene sequences along with the host insect gene sequences, and 100% homology was obtained, confirming the conspecificity of the cell line. The cell line was found to be susceptible to the baculoviruses Autographa californica multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus, Spodoptera litura multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus, and H. armigera single nucleopolyhedrovirus (HaSNPV). More than 90% of the cells were infected by HaSNPV on the seventh post infection day (PID), and
4294329|Fibroblast growth factors (FGF), which have been implicated in tumor cell growth and angiogenesis, have biological activities that appear to be mediated by both heparinlike extracellular matrix sites and transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor sites. In the present study, we demonstrated that inositolhexakisphosphate (InsP
20172247|Tissue-cultured neonatal cardiomyocytes can be successfully maintained in culture on a variety of extracellular matrix components such as laminin, fibronectin, and interstitial collagens (Types I and III). In vivo, however, cardiomyocytes (as well as many other cells) exist in a highly complex extracellular matrix environment composed of, in addition to the above three components, other proteins, proteoglycans, and growth factors. We have developed a procedure for culturing cardiomyocytes on a naturally occurring complete extracellular matrix, Cardiogel. This substrate, synthesized by cardiac fibroblasts, contains laminin, fibronectin, Types I and III collagen, and proteoglycans. When compared to cardiomyocytes grown on laminin alone or fibronectin alone, Cardiogel-supported cardiomyocytes adhere more rapidly after plating, exhibit spontaneous contractility earlier, undergo cytoskeletal and myofibrillar differentiation earlier, and grow larger than their counterparts. We suggest that their superior growth characteristics reflect the synergistic effect of numerous extracellular matrix components' signals in Cardiogel transduced by the cardiomyocyte cytoskeletal elements.
4295514|We have established an explant-cell culture system for mammary gland tumors from c-myc oncogene-expressing transgenic mice and potentially other transgenic strains. By coating culture dish surfaces with fetal bovine serum and using culture media supplemented with low serum and growth factors, the mammary tumor specimens could be maintained in culture for over 3 mo. Throughout the culture period, the explants produced abundant outgrowths of epithelial cells. As the outgrowths of epithelial cells filled the dishes, the explants were serially transferred from one dish to another-a process that could be repeated at least six times, thus providing a continuous supply of primary tumor cells. This culture system provides a useful tool for studying the biology of mouse mammary gland tumors and possibly tumors from other organ sites.
23481766|Tobacco induces oxidative stress in the alveolar epithelium and causes its damage. Retinoic acid (RA) has a cardinal role in alveolar cell growth, differentiation, and maturation. The aim of the study was to investigate the role of cellcell interactions and whether RA could reverse the effect of tobacco extract on epithelial function as expressed by surfactant synthesis. For this, an in vitro model, which provides multiple cell type interactions, as seen in vivo, was used. We had used the major lung cell types, alveolar epithelial and mesenchymal cells represented by the cell lines A549 (human lung adenocarcinoma cell line), and human fetal lung fibroblast-1 (HFL-1) for developing the monoculture and co-culture systems and studied the effect of tobacco extract and retinoic acid. The effect of tobacco and retinoic acid both singly and in combination on proliferation and surfactant synthesis was analyzed. Retinoic acid induced proliferation and upregulated surfactant synthesis in monocultures and co-cultures. Tobacco extract at 100 g/ml concentration decreased A549 proliferation and upregulated surfactant protein mRNA expression. In co-cultures treated with tobacco extract (100 g/ml), retinoic acid (1 M), regulated cell proliferation, and surfactant protein mRNA expression vis--vis the monoculture system. This clearly points to the fact that cellcell interactions modulate the effect of additives or stimulants and help in assessing the in vivo combinatorial responses in vitro and that the retinoic acid effect is regenerative.
4294510|This study reports the isolation and characterization of a rat nontumorigenic parotid acinar cell clone (2RSG), a human nontumorigenic parotid acinar cell clone (2HPC8), and a human tumorigenic acinar clone (
40663818|Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis allows the characterisation of embryos that cany a gene responsible for a severe monogenie disease and to transfer to the mother's uterus only the unaffected one(s). The genetically affected embryos can be used to establish human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines. We are currently establishing a cell bank of ESC lines carrying specific disease-causing mutant genes. These cell lines are available to the scientific community. For this purpose, we have designed a technique that requires only minimal manipulation of the embryos. At the blastocyst stage, we just removed the zona pellucida before seeding the embryo as a whole on a layer of feeder cells. This approach gave a good success rate (>20%), whatever the quality of the embryos, and allowed us to derive 11 new hESC lines, representing seven different pathologies. Full phenotypic validation of the cell lines according to ISCI guidelines confirmed their pluripotent nature, as they were positive for hESC markers and able to differentiate in vitro in all three germ layers derivatives. Nine out of 11 stem cell lines had normal karyotypes. Our results indicate that inner cell mass isolation is not mandatory for hESC derivation and that minimal manipulation of embryos can lead to high success rate.
4294512|Lectin binding and density gradient centrifugation were explored for isolating epithelial cells from trout liver. Hepatocytes exhibited preferential attachment to coverslips coated with Phaseolus vulgaris erythroagglutinin. Biliary epithelial cells attached with glycine max agglutinin; however, significant attachment of cellular debris limited the use of glycine max agglutinin. Percoll-density gradient centrifugation separated liver cells into two distinct populations with biliary cells and hepatocytes banding at densities of 1.04 and 1.09, respectively. A discontinuous gradient composed of 13% Ficoll (wt/wt) separated biliary cells from hepatocytes. The recovery of highly enriched biliary epithelial cells from trout liver using Ficoll gradients yielded approximately 8 million cells (0.1 ml packed cells) from 10 g liver. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the cytokeratin profile for extracts from biliary epithelial cell-enriched populations differ significantly from those seen with whole liver extracts or with extracts from hepatocyte-enriched populations. Ficoll-gradient purified biliary cells and hepatocytes attached to culture plates coated with trout skin extract and carried out linear incorporation of leucine into protein and thymidine into DNA for 24 h. A mixture of growth hormones (insulin, epidermal growth factor, and dexamethasone) stimulated thymidine incorporation into DNA; however, long-term culture of dividing biliary epithelial cells was not achieved. Chemical analysis of neutral and acidic glycolipids indicated that hepatocytes and biliary cells have similar glycolipid profiles with an exception in the region of GM3 mobility, which is attributable to differences in the ceramide moiety. These studies provide a starting point for further characterization of unique cell types of the trout liver that may be important in their response to toxic and carcinogenic agents.
4294573|The skeletal rat myoblast omega (RMo) cell line forms myotubes that exhibit spontaneous contractions under appropriate conditions in culture. We examined if the RMo cells would provide a model for studying atrophy and muscle contraction. To better understand how to obtain contractile cultures, we examined levels of contraction under different growing conditions. The proliferation medium and density of plating affected the subsequent proportion of spontaneously contracting myotubes. Using a ribonuclease protection assay, we found that exponentially growing RMo myoblasts contained no detectable myogenin or herculin mRNA, while differentiating myoblasts contained high levels of myogenin mRNA but no herculin mRNA. There was no increase in myogenin mRNA concentration in either primary chick or RMo myotubes whose contractions were inhibited by depolarizing concentrations of potassium (K
4294431|Insulinlike growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is both adipogenic and mitogenic to preadipose cell lines as well as primary stromal-vascular (SV) cells. The precise effect of IGF-1 on primary preadipocytes per se, however, has not been elucidated directly. In this study, primary porcine preadipocytes were exposed to IGF-1 while at three culture densities. The proportion of replicating preadipocytes was determined by labeling cells with an antiadipocyte/preadipocyte monoclonal antibody (MAb) concomitant with DNA measurement with propidium iodide. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that different seeding densities did not affect the relative proportion of preadipocytes (AD-1 positive) in cultures. However, IGF-1 treatment increased the proportion of preadipocytes at all densities but to a greater extent in more dense cultures. The resultant number of fat cell clusters formed was greater at higher densities and on IGF-1 treatment. The proportion of replicating cells in cultures decreased with increasing density. IGF-1 significantly increased replication at all densities and increased the number of replicating preadipocytes to the same extent independent of density. These results provide direct evidence of hormonal regulation of primary preadipocyte replication.
41511614|Flaxseeds have been shown to play a role in the prevention of cancer and heart disease, and it is believed that their more favorable fatty acid composition is responsible. Sprouting is a natural method to modify nutritional components and to decrease cyanide poisoning of raw flaxseeds. Here, we investigated the in vitro effects of flaxseed sprouts on cell growth and apoptosis of human breast cancer cells. In a series of in vitro experiments, estrogen-receptorpositive (MCF-7) and estrogen-receptor-negative (MDAMB-231) cells were cultured and treated with flaxseed sprouts, and then cell proliferation, apoptosis, and gene expression were measured. Flaxseed sprouts significantly reduced the growth of both of MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells and also increased apoptosis. However, flaxseed sprouts did not affect the growth of MCF-10A mammary epithelial cells. In gene transcription analysis using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, flaxseed sprout treatment significantly upregulated p53 mRNA in both cell cancer lines. These results suggest that flaxseed sprouts induce apoptosis and inhibit cancer cell growth, thereby demonstrating their anti-proliferative effects in breast cancer cells. This study may provide important information for devising dietary strategies to reduce breast cancer risk.
4295570|A cloned cell line that spontaneously polarizes in standard glucose-containing media was derived from a single cell of the adenocarcinoma cell line HT-29. The cloned line, designated HT-29/cl.f8, has remained stable over 2 yr in culture, maintained high transepithelial resistance (
20172185|Freshly harvested rat hepatocytes form spheroids on uncoated positively charged polystyrene surfaces. Time lapse microscopy revealed that cell movement and reorganization were involved in spheroid formation. Ultrastructural evaluation using scanning and transmission electron microscopy indicated polarized cellular morphology and extensive cell-cell communication within spheroids. Bile canalicular structures were observed to surround each individual hepatocyte, forming an intricate three-dimensional continuous network of channels that appeared to end as pores/holes on the surface of the spheroid. The maintenance of differentiated cellular morphology coincided with preservation of hepatocyte viability and enhanced levels of tissue specific functions in spheroids.
4295362|Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) has been shown to alter the migratory and proliferative activities of the vascular endothelial cells (EC) in response to serum and growth factors. The mechanism underlying the antiproliferative effect of ox-LDL on vascular EC has not been fully elucidated. In this report, we show that exposure of vascular EC to ox-LDL results in a marked reduction of the membrane-associated Ras protein. Further study shows that in ox-LDL-treated EC, reduction of the membrane-associated Ras protein is correlated with a reduced amount of active Ras (Rasguanosine triphosphate), indicating that the Ras signaling pathway is attenuated. The attenuation of the Ras signaling pathway in ox-LDL-treated EC may thus be responsible for the retarded response to the mitogenic stimulation of serum and growth factors.
4295591| Recently, it was demonstrated that the application of slow-cooling cryopreservation protocols to adherent human embryonic stem (hES) cell colonies, cultured on matrigel or murine embryonic fibroblast feeder layers, resulted in marked improvement in postthaw viability and reduction in cell differentiation. However, the use of commercially available culture plates for this purpose presents several limitations. Most obviously, these plates are not designed for cryopreservation or to withstand the low temperatures encountered during liquid nitrogen cryopreservation, or both. The physical storage of cryopreserved plates is another consideration, in addition to difficulty in maintaining sterile conditions in liquid nitrogen storage and during the thaw phase in a water bath. Hence, a redesign of the cell culture plate for the cryopreservation of adherent hES cell colonies is proposed. In this model, a culture plate made of synthetic materials resistant to storage at -196 C of liquid nitrogen is designed, with readily attachable screw-cap culture wells that function as a replacement for cryovial storage. The detachable wells facilitate storage and after thawing can easily be reattached to a specially designed holding plate. Currently, there are no commercially available cell culture plates using this design concept. The proposed design is envisioned to facilitate the cryopreservation of intact adherent hES cell colonies that could assist the development of automated systems for handling bulk quantities of cells. 
40205839|To establish an adequate model to study the proliferation and differentiation of porcine skeletal muscle in response to bioactive compounds, a pool of satellite cells was derived from the semimembranosus muscle (SM) of newborn piglets using a Percoll gradient centrifugation. The final yield amounted to 4.1  10 cells/g muscle tissue. The percentage of muscle satellite cells has been determined by immunostaining for desmin and subsequent fluorescence analysis by flow cytometry, which revealed 95% of desminpositive cells. For proliferation studies, satellite cell born myoblasts were seeded in gelatin-coated 96-well microplates at about 5  10 cells per well. Cells were grown for 1 day in MEM plus 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and 10% horse serum (HS), followed by 2 d cultivation in serum-free growth medium. For differentiation studies, myoblasts were cultured in matrigel-coated 24-well plates for 4 d with growth medium containing 10% FBS and 10% HS. At 80% confluence, cells were grown for 24 h in medium plus 10% FBS and 1 M insulin to initiate differentiation. Subsequently, the cells were cultured in serum-free differentiation medium (SFDM) for 3 d to form myotubes. Cultures reached a maximum fusion rate of approximately 20% after 96 h. By establishing this culture system, we provide an advanced and appropriate in vitro model to study porcine skeletal muscle cell growth and differentiation including the responses to various bioactive compounds.
4295566|An efficient Escherichia coli expression system for the production of mature-type alkaline serine protease II (mASP II) has been constructed. Complementary deoxyribonucleic acid-encoding mASP II was inserted into the inducible bacterial expression vector pGE-30. After introduction into E. coli, the plasmid was expressed by
4294294|This investigation reports for the first time the establishment of immortalized clones of dopamine-producing nerve cells in culture. Freshly prepared single-cell suspensions from fetal (12-day-old) rat mesencephalic tissue were transfected with plasmid vectors, pSV3neo and pSV5neo, using an electroporation technique. Cells were plated in tissue culture dishes which were precoated with a special substrate and contained modified MCDB-153 growth medium with 10% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum. The immortalized cells were selected by placing the transfected cells in a selection medium (modified MCDB-153 containing
4295345|The dose-response model concerns to establish a relationship between a dose and the magnitude of the response produced by the dose. A common complication in the dose-response model for jejunal crypts cell surviving data is overdispersion, where the observed variation exceeds that predicted from the binomial distribution. In this study, two different methods for analyzing jejunal crypts cell survival after regimens of several fractions are contrasted and compared. One method is the logistic regression approach, where the numbers of surviving crypts are predicted by the logistic function of a single dose of radiation. The other one is the transform-both-sides approach, where the arcsine transformation family is applied based on the first-order variance-stabilizing transformation. This family includes the square root, arcsine, and hyperbolic arcsine transformations, which have been used for Poisson, binomial, and negative binomial count data, as special cases. These approaches are applied to a data set from radiobiology. Simulation study indicates that the arcsine transformation family is more efficient than the logistic regression when there exists moderate overdispersion.
4295025|The recent identification of numerous matrix genes and gene products has allowed a detailed examination of their roles in development. Two of these extracellular matrix proteins, fibrillin-1 and fibrillin-2, are components of the elastin-associated microfibrils. Given what is known about the distribution of the fibrillins in normal tissues and the abnormalities that result when mutations occur, a basic hypothesis has emerged: fibrillin-1 is primarily responsible for load bearing and providing structural integrity, whereas fibrillin-2 may be a director of elastogenesis. Nevertheless, examination of phenotypes in disorders caused by mutations in fibrillin-1 or fibrillin-2 suggests some common functions. To better understand these similar and diverse roles, it would be helpful to examine these proteins during chick development. To accomplish this goal, it is first necessary to characterize the chick homologs of the known fibrillins. In this study, the partial chick FBN1 cDNA was identified by polymerase chain reaction-aided cloning as a first step toward elucidating these goals. Sequence analysis indicated that there is striking conservation between chick and mammalian fibrillin-1 at the DNA and protein levels. Antisense and sense riboprobes were synthesized and used in in situ hybridization in stage 14 chick embryos and high levels of FBN1 transcripts were observed in the heart.
4294494|This paper describes the studies of human recombinant basic fibroblast growth factor (rhFGF-2) for its effects on human osteoblast growth and phenotype expression. During a 24-h period of treatment, rhFGF-2 highly stimulated DNA synthesis in a dose-related fashion with a maximum stimulation of 150% for 1 ng/ml. On the other hand, rhFGF-2 decreases alkaline phosphatase activity, synthesis of type I collagen, and cumulative amount of osteocalcin. Moreover, rhFGF-2 provoked a threefold increase in the amount of intracellular cAMP. Scatchard plots show the presence of two classes of
4295323| Cell therapy may have the potential for the treatment of Type I diabetes. To date, cells suitable for this purpose have not been developed. This study investigates the feasibility of modifying Vero, a cell line that may be considered safe to implant into humans, for this purpose. Stable Vero transfectants containing full-length human preproinsulin complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) were generated using a liposomal transfection reagent. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, immunocytochemistry, Western blotting, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were used to assess the resulting cells. Proinsulin was expressed but was not processed to insulin by these cells. Proinsulin cDNA was genetically modified, resulting in a form that is furin sensitive. The resulting stably transfected Vero clones constitutively release approximately 34%/h (32.68  2.21 to 35.62  3.14%) of the product formed, approximately 62% (59.99  6.45 to 64.64  4.57%) of which is mature insulin. These Vero transfectants did not exhibit glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. As GLUT2 and glucokinase (GCK) are not constitutively expressed by these cells, human GLUT2 cDNA and GCK cDNA were cotransfected with furin-sensitive preproinsulin cDNA into Vero cells. Insulin and GCK proteins were detected in the cytoplasmic region of the resulting cells, whereas GLUT2 was predominantly expressed in the nucleus. Coexpression of GLUT2 and GCK did not result in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. The results from this study demonstrate the feasibility of engineering a relatively "safe" nonbeta cell line to produce human insulin. Coexpression of GLUT2 and GCK, at the levels achieved here, is not adequate enough to induce glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in such cells; the subcellular location of transfected components may be relevant. 
4294938|In preparing for the routine use of the ubiquitous in vitro cell growth inhibition assay for the study of anticancer agents, we characterized the statistical properties of the assay and found some surprising results. Parabolic well-to-well cell growth patterns were discovered, which could profoundly affect the results of routine growth inhibition studies of anticancer and other agents. Four human ovarian cell lines, A2780/WT, A2780/DX5, A2780/DX5B, and A121, and one human ileocecal adenocarcinoma cell line, HCT-8, were seeded into plastic 96-well plates with a 12-channel pipette, without drugs, and grown from 1-5 d. The wells were washed with a plate washer, cells stained with sulforhodamine B (SRB), and dye absorbance measured with a plate reader. Variance models were fit to the data from replicates to determine the nature of the heteroscedastic error structure. Exponential growth models were fit to data to estimate doubling times for each cell line. Polynomial models were fit to data from 10-plate stacks of 96-well plates to explore nonuniformity of cell growth in wells in different regions of the stacks. Each separate step in the assay was examined for precision, patterns, and underlying causes of variation. Differential evaporation of water from wells is likely a major, but not exclusive, contributor to the systematic well-to-well cell growth patterns. Because the fundamental underlying causes of the parabolic growth patterns were not conclusively found, a randomization step for the growth assay was developed.
4294103|The histogenesis of the dorsal root ganglia of chick embryos (ages 3 to 9 days) was followed in three different tissue culture systems. Organotypic explants included dorsal root ganglia connected to the lumbosacral segment of the spinal cord or isolated explants of the contralateral ganglia. Additionally, dissociated monolayer cultures of ganglia tissue were established. The gradual differentiation of progenitor neuroblasts into distinct populations of large ventrolateral and small dorsomedial neurons was observed in vivo and in vitro. Neurites developed after 3 days in the presence or absence of nerve growth factor in the medium. In contrast, autoradiographic analysis indicates that [
40205783|Human, rat, and mouse studies have demonstrated the existence of a population of adipose mesenchymal stem cells (AMSCs) that can undergo multilineage differentiation in vitro. Understanding the clinical potential of AMSCs may require their use in preclinical large-animal models such as pigs. Thus, the objectives of this study were to establish a protocol for the isolation of porcine AMSCs from adipose tissue and to examine their ex vivo differentiation potential to adipocytes and osteoblast. The porcine AMSCs from passage 4 were selected for differentiation analysis. The adipocytes were identified morphologically by staining with Oil Red O, and the adipogenic marker genes were examined by RT-PCR technique. Osteogenic lineage was documented by deposition of calcium stained with Alzarin Red S, visualization of alkaline phosphatase activity, and expression of marker gene. Our result indicates that porcine AMSCs have been successfully isolated and induced differentiation into adipocytes and osteoblasts. This study suggested that porcine AMSCs are also a valuable model system for the study on the mesenchymal lineages for basic research and tissue engineering.
4294198|The basal lamina of differentiated epithelium normally turns over only slowly unless stimulated by tissue repair and growth. We show here that one mechanism of this stimulation, as modeled by basal lamina proteoglycan synthesis, may be the release of basal lamina-bound transforming growth factor (
4295541| Unlike skeletal and cardiac muscle cells that differentiate irreversibly, smooth muscle cells (SMCs) retain a high degree of plasticity. During the so-called phenotypic modulation, SMCs can undergo transition between a contractile phenotype and a highly proliferative synthetic phenotype, as apparent from the extinction of numerous smooth muscle (SM) markers when they are passaged in culture. It would be very useful to have an SMC line that can be indefinitely propagated for the cellular and molecular analysis of the mechanisms that underlie the control of SM differentiation. This report describes an immortalized rabbit aorta SMC-derived cell line (U8A4) that has conserved differentiated properties through multiple subcultures. U8A4 cells can grow in the absence of serum and express the SMC markers studied, including SM -actin, SM calponin, SM22, SM -tropomyosin (-TM), SM myosin heavy chain (SM-MHC), and myocardin. U8A4 cells can activate SMC-restricted promoters like those of SM22, SM calponin, and SM-MHC genes as efficiently as described previously for rat SMC lines (PAC1, A7r5, and A10). These cells can also process exogenous -TM transcripts according to an SM-specific pattern. These results demonstrate that the U8A4 cell line constitutes a good alternative model to existing SMC lines that could facilitate the study of the transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying SMC differentiation. 
4294719|Rat parotid salivary gland acinar cells were transfected by CaPO
23481769|In spite of previous reports, the role of transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1) on cardiomyocyte differentiation, especially in the present autologous serum (AS) in culture medium, is still unclear. So, the purpose of this study was to investigate the potential of rat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (rBMSCs) to proliferate and differentiate towards cardiomyocyte lineage with the use of AS. Most expansion protocols use a medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum (FBS) as nutritional supplement. FBS is an adverse additive to cells that are proliferated for therapeutic purposes in humans because the use of FBS carries the risk of transmitting viral and bacterial infections and proteins that may initiate xenogeneic immune responses. Therefore, bone marrow cells were cultured in a medium supplemented with 10% AS, 10% FBS, and serum free medium (SFM). Then, rBMSCs were cultured with TGF-1 (10 ng/ml) for 2 wk. The number of viable cells in AS and FBS groups were measured with MTT assay. Beating areas frequency, up to fourth week after plating, were monitored and evaluated daily. The characteristics of cardiomyocytes were assessed by semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and western blot. MTT result indicated that rBMSCs in AS proliferated markedly faster than FBS and SFM. The number of beating areas significantly increased in AS compared to FBS medium. A noticeable increase in the cardiac genes expression was observed in AS. Moreover, western blot analysis confirmed that cardiac proteins were increased in the AS condition. In conclusion, the present study could be extended toward the safe culture of MSCs for the treatment of heart defects.
4294278|Current evidence suggests that interactions between the subchondral bone and the articular cartilage of mammalian diarthrodial joints may occur through the action of bone-associated peptide factors. However, there is no suitable organ culture model for studying these interactions. This study defines a long-term tissue culture system where the articular cartilage is coupled to the adjacent subchondral bone obtained from the proximal ends of bovine metacarpals. Autoradiography done over 3 mo., by utilizing
40663754|In the present study, the effects of dexamethasone on cadmium-induced toxicity were evaluated in isolated rat hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were cultured for 24 h in William's E medium containing fetal calf serum (10%), insulin (0.1 IU/ml), and glucagon (0.01 M) in the absence or presence of 0.1 Mdexamethasone. Cadmium chloride, 5 or 10 JJM, was added to the medium and the toxicity was evaluated for up to 48 h after treatment.Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, the reduced and oxidized glutathione ratio (GSH/GSSG), protein-SH groups, and lipid peroxidation levels were evaluated.Cadmium induced a dose-and time-dependent LDH release in control hepatocytes at 24 h (Cd 10 M 42%) while hepatocytes pretreated with dexamethasone showed lower necrosis (Cd 10 M 12% at 24 h). GSH/GSSH ratio and protein-SH groups were higher while lipid peroxidation was lower in dexamethasone-treated hepatocytes as compared with untreated cells. In conclusion, cadmium toxicity was associated with an increase in intracellular oxidative stress responsible for accelerated cell death. The use of dexamethasone prevented cadmium damage, suggesting that the cytoprotective action of this hormone is related to its effect in preventing changes in thiols such as glutathione and protein-SH groups.
4294386| Depending on the precise conditions and cellular starting material, phorbol-13-myristate-12-acetate (PMA) can induce or suppress the transformation of NIH 3T3 cells. In sublines that do not undergo rapid transformation, exposure to PMA over the course of several weeks accelerated the process, while sublines that are primed for density-mediated transformation respond to PMA with a suppression of the process. This study examines the latter phenomenon. Within 1 h of exposure to 0.02 g/ml PMA, sparse cultures had undergone a morphological transition after which the cells appeared smaller and the processes thinner. These sublines exhibited a two- to sixfold increase in the saturation density achieved in 2% calf serum (CS). Phorbol ester analogs with hydrocarbon substitutions of 4 or more carbons at positions 12 and 13 of the phorbol nucleus had a similar effect as PMA on the saturation density. High concentrations of PMA (1 g/ml) induced the formation of cell aggregates (pseudofoci) that resembled transformed foci in their high local density, but unlike transformed foci, did not reinitiate focus formation if the cells were diluted and replated without PMA as secondary cultures. PMA inhibited the processes of neoplastic transformation and progression that occur readily in these NIH 3T3 sublines when they reach high cell density. I suggest that such changes occur because PMA abolishes the selection pressure at high densities that favors the transformation of some cells in heterogeneous populations. Induction of transformation by PMA (reported previously) occurs after much longer exposures in sublines that are relatively resistant to rapid density-mediated transformation. These results are discussed in the context of progressive state selection, a concept that has been developed to account for spontaneous transformation in this system. 
40205863|Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) isolated from humans and rodents have been shown to generate neural cells under specific culture conditions and after transplantation in the central nervous system. The apparent plasticity of BMSCs has therefore been a target of intensive research in attempt to develop a novel therapy for neurological diseases. Canines sustain neurological disorders (e.g., traumatic spinal cord injury) that closely mirror pathology of those in humans. Therefore, we evaluated neural differentiation properties of canine BMSCs to provide insights into basic characterization of these cells for future neurotransplantation trials in canine patients with neurological disorders. We demonstrate that canine BMSCs form spherical cellular aggregates on anti-adhesive culture substrate in serum-free culture media, which morphologically and phenotypically resemble spherical aggregates of neural progenitor cells, so-called neurospheres. Upon dissociation and subculture on adhesive substrate, canine BMSCs express neuronal ( -tubulin) and glial (GFAP, A2B5, and CNPase) markers. Formation of spherical aggregates appears to be a critical preceding process for some of the glial marker expression (CNPase and A2B5). However, expression of more mature neuronal (MAP2) and glial (MBP) markers could not be induced with the protocol used in this study. We suggest that induction of canine BMSCs into cells with neural progenitor cell characteristics is possible and that these cells may have the potential for future cellular therapy for neurological disorders.
4295109| Bladder smooth muscle differentiation is dependent on the presence of bladder epithelium. Previously, we have shown that direct contact between the epithelium and bladder mesenchyme (BLM) is necessary for this interaction. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that bladder smooth muscle can be induced via diffusable growth factors. Fourteen-day embryonic rat bladders were separated into bladder mesenchyme (prior to smooth muscle differentiation) and epithelium by enzymatic digestion and microdissection. Six in vitro experiments were performed with either direct cellular contact or no contact (1) 14-d embryonic bladder mesenchyme (BLM) alone (control), (Contact) (2) 14-d embryonic bladders intact (control), (3) 14-d embryonic bladder mesenchyme combined with BPH-1 cells (an epithelial prostate cell line) in direct contact, (4) 14-d embryonic bladder mesenchyme with recombined bladder epithelium (BLE) in direct contact, (No Contact) (5) 14-d embryonic bladder mesenchyme with BPH-1 prostatic epithelial cells cocultured in type 1 collagen gel on the bottom of the well, and (6) 14-d embryonic bladder mesenchyme with BPH-1 epithelium cultured in a monolayer on a transwell filter. In each case the bladder tissue was cultured on Millicell-CM 0.4-m membranes for 7 d in plastic wells using serum free medium. Growth was assessed by observing the size of the bladder organoids in histologic cross section as well as the vertical height obtained in vitro. Immunohistochemical analysis of the tissue explants was performed to assess cellular differentiation with markers for smooth muscle -actin and pancytokeratin to detect epithelial cells. Control (1) bladder mesenchyme grown alone did not exhibit growth or smooth muscle and epithelial differentiation. Contact experiments (2) intact embryonic bladder, (3) embryonic bladder mesenchyme recombined with BPH-1 cells, and (4) embryonic bladder mesenchyme recombined with urothelium each exhibited excellent growth and bladder smooth muscle and epithelial differentiation. Both noncontact experiments (5) and (6) exhibited growth as well as bladder smooth muscle and epithelial differentiation but to a subjectively lesser degree than the contact experiments. Direct contact of the epithelium with bladder mesenchyme provides the optimal environment for growth and smooth muscle differentiation. Smooth muscle growth and differentiation can also occur without direct cell to cell contact and is not specific to urothelium. This data supports the hypothesis that epithelium produces diffusable growth factors that induce bladder smooth muscle. 
4295007|Cocultures of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (ECV304) and rat glioma cells (C6) from two commercial sources, American Type Culture Collection and European Collection of Animal Cell Cultures, were evaluated as an in vitro model for the blood-brain barrier. Monolayers of endothelial cells grown in the presence or absence of glial cells were examined for transendothelial electrical resistance, sucrose permeability, morphology, multidrug resistance-associated protein expression, and P-glycoprotein expression and function. Coculture of glial cells with endothelial cells increased electrical resistance and decreased sucrose permeability across European endothelial cell monolayers, but had no effect on American endothelial cells. Coculture of European glial cells with endothelial cells caused cell flattening and decreased cell stacking with both European and American endothelial cells. No P-glycoprotein or multidrug resistance-associated protein was immunodetected in endothelial cells grown in glial cell-conditioned medium. Functional P-glycoprotein was demonstrated in American endothelial cells selected in vinblastine-containing medium over eight passages, but these cells did not form a tight endothelium. In conclusion, while European glial cells confer blood-brain barrier-like morphology and barrier integrity to European endothelial cells in coculture, the European endothelial-glial cell coculture model does not express P-glycoprotein, normally found at the blood-brain barrier. Further, the response of endothelial cells to glial factors was dependent on cell source, implying heterogeneity among cell populations. On the basis of these observations, the umbilical vein endothelial cell-glial cell coculture model does not appear to be a viable model for predicting blood-brain barrier penetration of drug molecules.
4294113|The development and application of in vitro alternatives designed to reduce or replace the use of animals, or to lessen the distress and discomfort of laboratory animals, is a rapidly developing trend in toxicology. However, at present there is no formal administrative process to organize, coordinate, or evaluate validation activities. A framework capable of fostering the validation of new methods is essential for the effective transfer of new technologic developments from the research laboratory into practical use. This committee has identified four essential validation resources: chemical bank(s), cell and tissue banks, a data bank, and reference laboratories. The creation of a Scientific Advisory Board composed of experts in the various aspects and endpoints of toxicity testing, and representing the academic, industrial, and regulatory communities, is recommended. Test validation acceptance is contingent on broad buy-in by disparate groups in the scientific community-academics, industry, and government. This is best achieved by early and frequent communication among parties and agreement on common goals. It is hoped that the creation of a validation infrastructure composed of the elements described in this report will facilitate scientific acceptance and utilization of alternative methodologies and speed implementation of replacement, reduction, and refinement alternatives in toxicity testing.
20172172|We have characterized the effects of serum and N-acetylglucosamine in a glucose-deprived condition on the glycosylation of antibody light chains, as well as the resulting biological properties of those antibodies. We have chosen for our investigation the human hybridoma lines producing monoclonal antibodies reactive to lung adenocarcinoma. Each antibody possess a N-glycosylated carbohydrate chain in the hypervariable region of the light chains. When the cell lines were grown in the absence of glucose, variant light chains with varying molecular masses were found to be secreted. Analysis of these light chains produced in a glucose-deprived condition revealed that the changed molecular-mass of the variant light chains is due to different glycosylation. Addition of N-acetylglucosamine or fetal calf serum to the glucose-free medium led to the creation of other light chains that exhibit increased antigen binding activity.
4294229| Human fetal kidney explants can be maintained during 5 days in Leibovitz's L15, a basic serum-free medium. Because culture conditions are minimal for growth and differentiation, DNA synthesis drastically decreases during the first 48 h, but stabilizes thereafter. The addition of insulin plus transferrin significantly restores this important cellular function in kidneys of fetuses younger than 16 wk. However, renal explants from older fetuses are more difficult to culture: they respond less to growth factors and are more prone to necrosis. The objective of this study was to verify the influence of tetracycline, an antibiotic with anti-collagenase potential, on cultured kidney explants aged 17 to 20 wk. The addition of 20 g/ml tetracycline did not influence DNA synthesis nor the effectiveness of insulin plus transferrin on cell proliferation. Nor did it change the activities of alkaline phosphatase and -glutamyltransferase, two enzymic markers of brush border differentiation. After 5 days in L15 alone, explants often showed necrosis and an important reduction in both weight and volume. Insulin plus transferrin significantly restored these parameters to control values observed at Day 0, but evidence of necrosis was still present. Tetracycline alone markedly reduced explant necrosis resulting in a significant increase in weight and volume. The effectiveness of insulin plus transferrin on explant morphometry was not improved when tetracycline was added as third factor. These results indicate that insulin plus transferrin restores explant mass through cell proliferation, whereas tetracycline does so possibly through a reduction in extracellular matrix degradation. The two effects are not additive in cultured mid-term fetal kidneys. 
41417651|We established the first continuous cell line that uses a serum-free culture from the embryo of Bombyx mori (Lepidoptera: Bombycidae), designated as NIAS-Bm-Kel 7. This cell line was serially subcultured in the SH-Ke-117 medium. The cells adhere weakly to the culture flask, and most cells have an oval shape. The cell line was subcultured 154 times, and the population doubling time is 83.67  5.22 h. Random amplification of polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction with a tenmar single primer for discrimination of insect cell lines recognized the NIAS-Bm-Kel cell line as B. mori. This cell line does not support the growth of the B. mori nuclear polyhedrosis virus (BmNPV) in the absence of the heat-inactivated hemolymph of B. mori. However, the heat-inactivated hemolymph in 1% volume of the medium supported a high level of susceptibility to BmNPV. In addition, the cooling treatment of the cells at 2.5C also enhanced the susceptibility. We report a new serum-free culture system of the B. mori cell line for the baculovirus expression vector system.
4295115|The specific performance of the adult hepatic parenchymal cell is maintained and controlled by factors deriving from the stromal bed; the chemical nature of these factors is unknown. This study aimed to develop a serum-free hierarchical hepatocyte-nonparenchymal (stromal) cell coculture system. Hepatic stromal cells proliferated on crosslinked collagen in serum-free medium with epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and hepatocyte-conditioned medium; cell type composition changed during the 2-wk culture period. During the first wk, the culture consisted of proliferating sinusoidal endothelial cells with well-preserved sieve plates, proliferating hepatic stellate cells, and partially activated Kupffer cells. The number of endothelial cells declined thereafter; stellate cells and Kupffer cells became the prominent cell types after 8 d. Hepatocytes were seeded onto stromal cells precultured for 4-14 d; they adhered to stellate and Kupffer cells, but spared the islands of endothelial cells. Stellate cells spread out on top of the hepatocytes; Kupffer cell extensions established multiple contacts to hepatocytes and stellate cells. Hepatocyte viability was maintained by coculture; the positive influence of stromal cell signals on hepatocyte differentiation became evident after 48 h; a strong improvement of cell responsiveness toward hormones could be observed in cocultured hepatocytes. Hierarchial hepatocyte coculture enhanced the glucagon-dependent increases in phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity and messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) content three- and twofold, respectively; glucagon-activated urea production was elevated twofold. Coculturing also stimulated glycogen deposition; basal synthesis was increased by 30% and the responsiveness toward insulin and glucose was elevated by 100 and 55%, respectively. The insulin-dependent rise in the glucokinase mRNA content was increased twofold in cocultured hepatocytes. It can be concluded that long-term signals from stromal cells maintain hepatocyte differentiation. This coculture model should, therefore, provide the technical basis for the investigation of stroma-derived differentiation factors.
4294612|Immunity relies on the circulation of lymphocytes through many different tissues including blood vessels, lymphatic channels, and lymphoid organs. The ability of lymphocytes to traverse the interstitium in both nonlymphoid and lymphoid tissues can be determined in vitro by assaying their capacity to locomote through Type I collagen. In an attempt to characterize potential causes of microgravity-induced immunosuppression, we investigated the effects of simulated microgravity on human lymphocyte function in vitro using a specialized rotating-wall vessel culture system developed at the Johnson Space Center. This very low shear culture system randomizes gravitational vectors and provides an in vitro approximation of microgravity. In the randomized gravity of the rotating-wall vessel culture system, peripheral blood lymphocytes did not locomote through Type I collagen, whereas static cultures supported normal movement. Although cells remained viable during the entire culture period, peripheral blood lymphocytes transferred to unit gravity (static culture) after 6 h in the rotating-wall vessel culture system were slow to recover and locomote into collagen matrix. After 72 h in the rotating-wall vessel culture system and an additional 72 h in static culture, peripheral blood lymphocytes did not recover their ability to locomote. Loss of locomotory activity in rotating-wall vessel cultures appears to be related to changes in the activation state of the lymphocytes and the expression of adhesion molecules. Culture in the rotating-wall vessel system blunted the ability of peripheral blood lymphocytes to respond to polyclonal activation with phytohemagglutinin. Locomotory response remained intact when peripheral blood lymphocytes were activated by anti-CD3 antibody and interleukin-2 prior to introduction into the rotating-wall vessel culture system. Thus, in addition to the systemic stress factors that may affect immunity, isolated lymphocytes respond to gravitational changes by ceasing locomotion through model interstitium. These in vitro investigations suggest that microgravity induces non-stress-related changes in cell function that may be critical to immunity. Preliminary analysis of locomotion in true microgravity revealed a substantial inhibition of cellular movement in Type I collagen. Thus, the rotating-wall vessel culture system provides a model for analyzing the microgravity-induced inhibition of lymphocyte locomotion and the investigation of the mechanisms related to lymphocyte movement.
4295466|Airway epithelial cultures are generally derived from tracheas postmortem or from surgical specimens of nasal polyps or turbinates. Scrapings of the mucosal surface have been little used as starting material for cultures because of their low yield of epithelial cells and their contamination with mucous secretions, blood, and underlying connective tissue. For the first time, we report that human airway epithelial cells obtained from nasal scrapings or bronchial brushings can be grown in culture to produce polarized cell sheets suitable for studies of vectorial transport.
4294936|Exposure for less than an hour to a protein isolated from Naegleria amoebae initiates a process that has no apparent effect on the appearance or growth of chick embryo or CHO cell cultures for 4 to 9 days; after the development of confluency, at some unknown signal, all of the cells undergo an apoptotic death within a 12- to 24-hour period. Abnormalities detected among the last mitotic cells include chromosomal breakage and early reversal in metaphase to telo/interphase daughter nuclei with irregular shapes. Additional events in the dying cultures include the development of a cytoplasmic amoebic-related immunogen, gross DNA fragmentation, cell blebbing, shrinkage, and apoptotic body formation. Culture death included all cells, those present in confluent cultures when the protein was added, and in other cultures, those formed during a more than 30-fold increase in cells as the cultures became confluent. The increase in the number of cells followed by the uniformity and synchrony of their death pattern indicates that the signal to kill has increased and spread throughout the culture; upon an unknown condition related to confluency, events are initiated that lead to the unusual apoptotic death of the culture.
4295314| Broiler chickens at 35 d of age were fed 1 ppm clenbuterol for 14 d. This level of dietary clenbuterol led to 5-7% increases in the weights of leg and breast muscle tissue. At the end of the 14-d period, serum was prepared from both control and clenbuterol-treated chickens, and was then employed as a component of cell culture media at a final concentration of 20% (v/v). Muscle cell cultures were prepared from both the leg and the breast muscle groups of 12-d chick embryos. Treatment groups included control chicken serum to which 10 nM, 50 nM, and 1 M clenbuterol had been added, as well as cells grown in media containing 10% horse serum. Cultures were subjected to each treatment for 3 d, beginning on the seventh d in culture. Neither the percent fusion nor the number of nuclei in myotubes was significantly affected by any of the treatments. The quantity of myosin heavy chains (MHCs) was not increased by serum from clenbuterol-treated chickens in either breast or leg muscle cultures; however, the MHC quantity was 50-150% higher in cultures grown in control chicken serum to which 10 and 50 nM clenbuterol had also been added. The -adrenergic receptor (AR) population was 4000-7000 ARs per cell in cultures grown in chicken serum, with leg muscle cultures having approximately 25-30% more receptors than breast muscle cultures. Receptor population was not significantly affected by the presence of clenbuterol or by the presence of serum from clenbuterol-treated chickens. In contrast, the AR population in leg and breast muscle cultures grown in the presence of 10% horse serum was 16,000-18,000 ARs per cell. Basal concentration of cyclic adenosine 3':5'monophosphate (cAMP) was not significantly affected by the treatments. When cultures grown in chicken serum were stimulated for 10 min with 1 M isoproterenol, limited increases of 12-20% in cAMP concentration above the basal levels were observed. However, when cultures grown in the presence of horse serum were stimulated with 1 M isoproterenol, cAMP concentration was stimulated 5- to 9-fold above the basal levels. Thus, not only did cells grown in horse serum have a higher AR population, but also each receptor had a higher capacity for cAMP synthesis following isoproterenol stimulation. Finally, the hypothesis that clenbuterol exerts its action on muscle protein content by changes in cAMP concentration was tested. No correlation was apparent between basal cAMP concentration and MHC content. 
4294896|A rainbow trout spleen cell line, RTS34, was developed from a long-term hemopoietic culture. This cell line consisted of a mixed stromal cell layer with an associated cell population of macrophage-like cells that formed proliferative foci and released nonadherent progeny cells into the culture medium. A stromal cell line, RTS34st, was isolated from the RTS34 cell line. RTS34st cultures contained cells with fibroblast-like and epithelial-like morphologies and showed enhanced [
4294556|Mice with targeted disruption of the cftr gene show pathophysiologic changes in the gallbladder, which correlate with hepatobiliary disease seen in cystic fibrosis patients. As gallbladder epithelium secretes mucin, and as this epithelium consists of a relatively homogenous cell type, study of CFTR function in these cells would be beneficial to delineate the complex cellular functions of this protein. The size and anatomic location of the murine gallbladder makes such studies difficult in vivo. Therefore, the need exists for in vitro models of gallbladder epithelium. We describe a method to isolate and culture murine gallbladder epithelium from wild-type and CF mice. Cells were grown in a monolayer on porous inserts over a feeder layer of fibroblasts. These nontransformed cells can be successively passaged and maintain a well-differentiated epithelial cell phenotype as shown by morphologic criteria, characterized by polarized columnar epithelial cells with prominent microvilli and intercellular junctions. Organotypic cultures showed columnar cells simulating in vivo morphology. This culture system should be valuable in delineating cellular processes relating to CFTR in gallbladder epithelium.
20172169|The thermolabile large T-antigen, encoded by the simian virus 40 early region mutant tsA58, was used to establish clonal cell lines (BMM-UV) from primary bovine myoepithelial cells. The BMM-UV cells have undergone more than 300 population doublings without any signs of senescence, and they contain the intranuclear large T antigen. At low confluency, they grow in a spindlelike manner and develop very long projections that most likely allow for communication of cells at a distance from each other. Establishment results in a decrease in the number of cells that contract in response to oxytocin compared with the parental nontransfected cells (20% versus 45%). Oxytocin responsiveness of BMM-UV cells increases when the cells are cultured in a medium supplemented with staphylococcal proteases. Proliferation of BMM-UV cells increases when they are cultured in the presence of epidermal growth factor (10 ng/ml) or insulinlike growth factor I (50 ng/ml). The BMM-UV cells may become a useful model to study growth properties, cell-to-cell communication, and the function of bovine mammary myoepithelial cells.
4294045|A recombinant Autographa californica baculovirus expressing secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) gene was used to evaluate the expression of a secreted glycoprotein in eight insect cell lines derived from Spodoptera frugiperda, Trichoplusia ni, Mamestra brassicae and Estigmene acrea. Because cell density was found to influence protein production, SEAP production was evaluated at optimal cell densities for each cell line on both a per cell and per milliliter basis. On a per cell basis, the T. ni-derived BTI-TN-5B1-4 cells produced a minimum of 20-fold more SEAP than the S. frugiperda-derived Sf9 or Sf21 cell lines and a minimum of 9-fold more than any of the other cell lines growing in serum-containing medium. On a per milliliter basis, BTI-TN-5B1-4 cells produced a minimum of fivefold more SEAP than any of the other cell lines tested. Using cell lines that were adapted to serum-free medium, SEAP yields were the same or better than their counterparts in serum-containing medium. At 3 days postinoculation, extracellular SEAP activity ranged from 59 to 85% of total SEAP activity with cell lines grown in serum-free and serum-containing media.
4294756|Although chronic inflammatory reactions have been proposed to cause neuronal degeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the role of prostaglandins (PGs), one of the secretory products of inflammatory reactions, in degeneration of nerve cells has not been studied. Our initial observation that
4294803|In vitro experiments were conducted to clarify the involvement of the epithelium-amebocyte interaction in epithelial regeneration of bivalves. The outer epithelia of the palliai mantle of the pearl oyster, Pinctada fucata martensii, were separated in cell sheets from the inner connective tissue layers by digestion with Dispase. Clumps of the separated mantle epithelia were inoculated onto the amebocyte layers prepared on the bottom of culture dishes and maintained at 20 C in
4294929|Conventional and molecular cytogenetic analyses of three murine cancer cell lines that had been induced in male athymic mice by the injection of three different human prostate cancer cell lines revealed selective amplification of the Y chromosome. In particular, analysis of metaphase and interphase nuclei by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with the mouse Y chromosome-specific DNA painting probe revealed the presence of various numbers of Y chromosomes, ranging from one to eight, with a large majority of nuclei showing two copies (46.5-60.1%). In Interphase nuclei, the Y chromosomes showed distinct morphology, allowing identification irrespective of whether the preparations were treated for 15 min or for 5 h with Colcemid, a chemical known to cause chromosome condensation. However, FISH performed on human lymphocyte cultures with chromosome-specific DNA painting probes other than the Y chromosome did not reveal condensed chromosome morphology in interphase nuclei even after 12 h of Colcemid treatment. Our FISH results indicate that (1) the Y chromosome is selectively amplified in all three cell lines; (2) the mouse Y chromosome number is comparable in both interphase and metaphase cells; (3) the Y chromosome number varies between one and eight, with a large majority of cells showing two or three copies in most interphase nuclei; (4) the condensation of the Y chromosome is not affected by the duration of Colcemid treatment but by its inherent DNA constitution; and (5) the number of copies of the Y chromosome is increased and retained not only in human prostate tumor cell lines but also in murine tumors induced by these prostate tumor cell lines.
4294120|In previous experiments it was shown that injection into syngeneic CBA/J mice of cell mixtures containing an excess of non-metastatic SP1 mouse mammary carcinoma cells with a ras transfected metastatic variant of SP1 called C1, always resulted in the eventual dominance of the C1 subpopulation at the site of inoculation. This occurred despite the growth rates of the two cell populations being identical in vivo when grown separately. The means by which the C1 subpopulation achieved "clonal dominance" is thought to involve its responsiveness to stimulatory paracrine growth factors liberated by the non-metastatic SP1 population. The clonal dominance process, however, could not be recapitulated in conventional monolayer tissue culture conditions in which SP1 and C1 cells were grown together in high concentrations of serum, i.e. under non-limiting culture conditions. We now show that clonal dominance of Cl cells can be observed when the cell mixture is maintained in tissue culture for extended periods, or when the cells are grown under selective, limiting conditions, some of which may mimic growth conditions in vivo more accurately. These conditions were a) growth in low (limiting) serum concentrations; and b) growth as three-dimensional multicellular aggregates, i.e. as "tumor spheroids". Under all of these conditions dominance of the C1 subpopulation always took place, but with an efficiency 6- to 40-fold less than generally observed in vivo. C1 cells were also able to form more stable (compact) spheroids compared to SP1 cells. Entrapment of the latter in mixed C1/SP1 spheroids increased the recovery of the SP1 cells suggesting some kind of "rescue" mechanism in which cells are protected from physical forces by three-dimensional structure. The relevance of these in vitro interactions for clonal dominance in primary tumors and metastasis in vivo are discussed.
4294608|A novel in vitro human prostate cancer model was established by using a coculture technique in which isolated human prostate fibroblasts were observed to grow as a mixed culture with isolated human prostate cancer cells (LNCaP) on microcarrier beads under microgravity-simulated conditions. This model appears to be promising and deserves further exploration because: (a) cocultured human prostate fibroblasts and cancer epithelial cells appear to undergo patterns of histogenesis similar to those observed in human prostate tumors and (b) unlike the conventional cell culture on plastic dishes, cocultured human prostate fibroblasts and LNCaP cells in microgravity-simulated conditions responded to the inductive signals of growth and differentiation from dihydrotestosterone in a manner similar to that observed in the in vivo condition. These results offer an opportunity to examine molecular mechanisms of cellular signaling in response to androgen stimulation during normal and aberrant human prostate development. The microgravity-simulated three-dimensional prostate epithelial cell culture with prostate fibroblasts can be further explored as an ideal in vitro model for the study of normal and neoplastic prostate development. This model could also be adopted as a drug screening program for the discovery of novel therapeutic agents in the treatment of human prostate cancer and benign hyperplastic growth.
4294594|Doubling time has been widely used to represent the growth pattern of cells. A traditional method for finding the doubling time is to apply gray-scaled cells, where the logarithmic transformed scale is used. As an alternative statistical method, the log-linear model was recently proposed, for which actual cell numbers are used instead of the transformed gray-scaled cells. In this paper, I extend the log-linear model and propose the extended log-linear model. This model is designed for extra-Poisson variation, where the log-linear model produces the less appropriate estimate of the doubling time. Moreover, I compare statistical properties of the gray-scaled method, the log-linear model, and the extended log-linear model. For this purpose, I perform a Monte Carlo simulation study with three data-generating models: the additive error model, the multiplicative error model, and the overdispersed Poisson model. From the simulation study, I found that the gray-scaled method highly depends on the normality assumption of the gray-scaled cells; hence, this method is appropriate when the error model is multiplicative with the log-normally distributed errors. However, it is less efficient for other types of error distributions, especially when the error model is additive or the errors follow the Poisson distribution. The estimated standard error for the doubling time is not accurate in this case. The log-linear model was found to be efficient when the errors follow the Poisson distribution or nearly Poisson distribution. The efficiency of the log-linear model was decreased accordingly as the overdispersion increased, compared to the extended log-linear model. When the error model is additive or multiplicative with Gamma-distributed errors, the log-linear model is more efficient than the gray-scaled method. The extended log-linear model performs well overall for all three data-generating models. The loss of efficiency of the extended log-linear model is observed only when the error model is multiplicative with log-normally distributed errors, where the gray-scaled method is appropriate. However, the extended log-linear model is more efficient than the log-linear model in this case.
4294601|A cell line was established from a mixed mullerian tumor of the ovary and designated LN1. Histopathologic analysis of the fresh tumor specimen demonstrated a highly aneuploid heterologous tumor comprised of undifferentiated mesodermal components with carcinomatous cells present as a smaller population. Long-term in vitro culture resulted in the establishment of a cell line that exhibits an epithelial-like morphology and expresses epithelial antigens cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and carcinoma antigen TAG-72. These cells also express mesenchymal intermediate filaments, vimentin, and desmin. Karyotypic analysis revealed a basic triploid pattern with multiple chromosomal abnormalities, most notably an isochromosome of the short arm of five present in three copies. Analysis of oncogene expression revealed that LN1 cells constitutively express mRNA for c-ras, c-erbB2, and p53. The expression of mRNA for cellular oncogenes correlated with the presence of corresponding oncoproteins,
4295071| In order to clarify the environmental factors modulating cell migration, we investigated the effects of human serum on cell migration, and found that serum from adult donors strongly (by 48%) suppressed the migration of human fetal skin fibroblasts into a denuded area in a cell monolayer. Human serum from old donors inhibited cell migration more strongly than that from adult donors. Next, we investigated the properties of migration-inhibitory activity of human serum and serum proteins in order to identify migration-inhibitory substances. Human serum from adult donors strongly suppressed the migration of human fetal skin fibroblasts, although it stimulated cell proliferation more strongly than fetal bovine serum (FBS), indicating that the inhibitory effects of human serum on cell migration was not due to its toxic effects. The inhibition of cell migration by human serum was concentration dependent. It was demonstrated that the inhibition did not depend on the inhibitory effects of human serum on collagen synthesis. The migration-inhibitory activity was seen in fractions over 100 kDa, as determined by an ultrafiltration membrane, and no inhibitory activity was observed in fractions under 100 kDa. On the other hand, it was not detected either in fractions over 100 kDa or under 100 kDa in FBS. Among the over 100 kDa human serum proteins examined, -globulin, 2-macroglobulin, and low density lipoprotein (LDL) suppressed fibroblast migration in a concentration-dependent manner. However, among the three, cell migration-inhibiting activity of -globulin almost disappeared when cell migration was conducted in 10% FBS-supplemented medium. These results indicated that 2-macroglobulin and LDL were candidate substances for cell migration-inhibiting activity in human serum. 
40663796|To establish a potential resource for cell therapy and a developmental model for human diseases, we had isolated three Chinese human embryonic stem cell lines from the inner cell mass of human blastocysts in 2002. All the three cell lines were grown on mouse embryonic fibroblasts as feeder cells; one of these cell lines, chRES-3, has maintained its normal karyotype even after being cultured in vitro for more than 100 passages, after the standardization of mouse feeder preparation. Each hES cell line has been completely characterized. All the three cell lines expressed hES-specific markers and pluripotency-related genes. These cells maintained their normal karyotype during long-term culture and displayed a high telomerase activity. When differentiated in vivo and in vitro, the derivatives representing the three germ layers could be observed. Human leukocyte antigen, ABO blood type, and DNA fingerprinting were also performed to provide a unique identity to each cell line. By establishing these hES cell lines, we provide an appropriate in vitro model to study human development and regeneration. All the three cell lines can be obtained for research purposes by placing a request at our website at www.hescbank.cn.
20172214| Novel Madin Darby Canine Kidney cell clones were isolated. These cell clones exhibit differential responsiveness to inducers of tubule or cyst formation in collagen gel culture: hepatocyte growth factor or inducers of intracellular cAMP formation, respectively. In gel culture, clone OR93.22.D6 forms cysts and responds with morphological transformation to both hepatocyte growth factor and prostaglandin E, and is most typical of a previously described cell type except for its higher transepithelial electrical resistance. OR55.25.II20 forms tubules in culture, is unresponsive to hepatocyte growth factor, and forms prostaglandin-induced spherical cysts. OR55.28.V2 forms dense cell spheres under control conditions, is induced to form tubules by hepatocyte growth factor, and is unresponsive to prostaglandin. OR55.29 forms only cysts, and is the only clone to form domes in monolayer culture. Tubule formation induced by hepatocyte growth factor, in all clones except OR55.25.II20, is blocked by a neutralizing antibody. In defined medium, without hepatocyte growth factor or prostaglandin, OR55.25.II20 forms spontaneous tubules. This finding indicates that a tubulogenic serum factor is not responsible for the observed phenotype. Increasing prostaglandin concentrations lead to inhibition of tubule formation and increased cyst formation. This observation suggests that induction of intracellular cAMP formation negatively regulates tubule formation in these cells, and implies that cystogenesis may represent a "default pathway" for impaired tubulogenesis. These observations demonstrate that some facets of renal tubulogenesis may be independent of hepatocyte growth factor, and that care must be exercised when comparing biological studies utilizing different clones. 
4295465|Because perchloric acid-soluble protein (PSP) has been conserved evolutionally in various species from Escherichia coli to humans, it may reflect an involvement in basic cellular regulation. However, the precise function of PSP is currently unknown. In this study, we examined the direct effect of PSP on the production of immunoglobulin (Ig) using human B, HB4C5, NAT-30, and U266 cells because it has been reported that subcutaneous administration of PSP affects rodent immune systems. Suppression of Ig productivity and decrement of the cell viability was recognized only in HB4C5 cells by the addition of PSP into the medium. On the other hand, PSP had no effect on Ig productivity and cell viability in NAT-30 and U266 cells. In addition, PSP was clearly incorporated by HB4C5 but not by the other cells. These results suggest that the Ig production suppressed by PSP, which has been previously reported to inhibit protein synthesis, contributed to the incorporation of PSP into the HB4C5 cells.
4294131|Carcinogenesis is a lengthy process which eventually culminates in the transformed phenotype, cancer. However, much remains to be defined about the process of transformation. In vivo models for the study of the carcinogenic process present limitations because it is not possible to detect the premalignant stages in the animals. An in vitro model, on the other hand, facilitates the study of the carcinogenic process because it enables one to dissect out the crucial events required for carcinogenesis to occur. As carcinogenesis is believed to be a multistep process; initiation, promotion, and progression, a multistep, in vitro system has been devised in our laboratory to mimic each of these stages. We have previously shown the formation of "microtumors" in collagen gels, induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene. In the present study the direct acting water soluble, mammary carcinogen, N-nitroso-N-methylurea (NMU) was used for tumorigenesis of mammary epithelial cells in culture. Mammary epithelial cells from virgin Sprague-Dawley rats were propagated and exposed to single or multiple doses of NMU while growing as a monolayer in glass petri dishes (initiation). Initiated cells were then plated into a collagen gel matrix culture. Prolonged growth in the collagen gels afforded for the progression of the transformed cells into discernable microtumors in the three-dimensional matrix of the collagen. The morphology of these "tumors" was determined by histologic sections of the gels. Fewer, if any, such structures existed in the untreated gels.
41511624|Tribulus terrestris is a traditionally known nontoxic aphrodisiac herb for maleness. It was experimented recently to understand the effect and mechanism on mono sex production in Poecilia latipinna. It would help to develop a new eco-friendly way to masculinize P. latipinna, since males have higher commercial value than females. The different concentration (100, 150,200, 250 and 300 mg/L) of T. terrestris extract and a control were tested for their effect on sex transformation/reversal in P. latipinna by immersing the newly born young ones in the respective concentrations for 2 mo. The obtained results indicate that a dose dependant masculinization is obtained due to T. terrestris administration, which improved the male proportion. Histological results revealed that the testes of fish treated with T. terrestris extract contained all stages of spermatogenesis, clearly demonstrating that the administration of T terrestris extract to P. latipinna stimulated spermatogenesis. Thus, it is discernible that 0-d-old hatchlings of P. latipinna exposed to T. terrestris extract orient/reverse their sex more towards maleness besides yielding better growth and spermatogenesis which is a mandate for fancy fish industry.
4295530|Many of the morphological defects associated with embryonic alcohol exposure are a result of cell death. During limb development, ethanol administration produces cell death in the limb and digital defects, including postaxial ectrodactyly. Because an accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is produced in adult and embryonic tissues by ethanol exposure, this investigation examines the possibility that ethanol-induced cell death in the limb is a result of ROS. Using an in vitro primary culture of limb mesenchyme, the effects of hydrogen peroxide (H
4294461| Cells from the freshwater sponge Ephydatia muelleri were isolated by dissociating hatching gemmules. During the first 24 h the cells reaggregated, but the aggregates progressively disintegrated again to single cells, among which the spicule-forming sclerocytes were recognized. Such cultures were used to study spicule (megascleres) formation in vitro. The isolated sclerocytes formed the organic central axial filament onto which they deposited inorganic silicon. The size of the spicules (200 to 350 m in length) as well as the rate of spicule formation (1 to 10 m/h) under in vitro conditions were similar to the values measured in vivo. Immediately after completion of spicule formation, or even before, the sclerocyte could start formation of a new spicule; 5% of the cells were in the process of forming two spicules simultaneously. Cultivation of sclerocytes in the absence of silicon resulted in the formation of the axial filament only. We succeeded in maintaining the sclerocytes in a proliferating and spicule-forming state for up to 3 mo. These results demonstrate that the establishment of short-term cell cultures from E. muelleri is possible; however, future studies must be undertaken to identify the growth factors required for a permanent culture of sponge cells. 
40802395|Human defensins play a fundamental role in the initiation of innate immune responses to some microbial pathogens. In this paper, we show that human a-defensin-5 displays a parasiticidal role against Toxoplasma gondii, the causative agent of toxoplasmosis. Exposure of the tachyzoite form of  gondii to defensin induced aggregation and significantly reduced parasite viability in a concentrationdependent peptide. Pre-incubation of tachyzoites with human a-defensin-5 followed by exposure to a mouse embryonal cell line (NIH/3T3) significantly reduced  gondii infection in these cells. Thus, human a-defensin-5 is an innate immune molecule that causes severe toxocity to T. gondii and plays an important role in reducing cellular infection. This is the first report showing that human a-defensin-5 causes aggregation, leading to Toxoplasma destruction.
4295180|Three-dimensional (3D) osteoblast cell cultures were obtained in rotating-wall vessels (RWV), simulating microgravity. Three types of bioactive microcarriers, specifically modified bioactive glass particles, bioceramic hollow microspheres, and biodegradable bioactive glass-polymer composite microspheres, were developed and used with osteoblasts. The surfaces of composite microspheres fully transformed into bone apatite after 2-wk immersion in simulated physiological fluid, which demonstrated their bone-bonding ability. The motion of microcarriers in RWVs was photographically recorded and numerically analyzed. The trajectories of hollow microspheres showed that they migrated and eventually stayed around at the central region of the RWV. At their surfaces, shear stresses were low. In contrast, solid glass or polymer particles moved toward and finally bounced off the outer wall of the RWVs. Cell culture studies in the RWV using bone marrow stromal cells showed that the cells attached to and formed 3D aggregates with the hollow microspheres. Extracellular matrix and mineralization were observed in the aggregates. Cell culture studies also confirmed the ability of the composite microspheres to support 3D bone-like tissue formation. These data suggest that the new hollow bioceramic microspheres and degradable composite microspheres can be used as microcarriers for 3D bone tissue engineering in microgravity. They also have potential applications as drug delivery systems.
20460122|Attempts to study endothelial-epithelial interactions in the human breast have been hampered by lack of protocols for long-term cultivation of breast endothelial cells (BRENCs). The aim of this study was to establish long-term cultures of BRENCs and to compare their phenotypic traits with the tissue of origin. Microvasculature was localized in situ by immunohistochemistry in breast samples. From this tissue, collagen-rich stroma and adipose tissue were dissected mechanically and further disaggregated to release microvessel organoids. BRENCs were cultured from these organoids in endothelial specific medium and characterized by staining for endothelial markers. Microvessels were a prominent feature of intralobular tissue as evidenced by immunostaining against endothelial specific markers such as CD31, VE-cadherin, and von Willebrand factor (VWF). Double staining against VE-cadherin and lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor-1 (LYVE-1) showed that blood and lymphatic vessels could be distinguished. An antibody against CD31 was used to refine protocols for isolation of microvasculature from reduction mammoplasties. BRENCs retained critical traits even at high passage, including uptake of low-density lipoprotein, and had E-selectin induced upon treatment with tumor necrosis factor-. The first signs of senescence in passage 14 were accompanied by gain of trisomy 11. At passage 18 cells showed chromosomal aberrations and growth arrest as revealed by -galactosidase staining. We demonstrate here that breast microvasculature may serve as a large-scale source for expansion of BRENCs with molecular and functional traits preserved. These cells will form the basis for studies on the role of endothelial cells in breast morphogenesis.
4294239| To express high levels of proteins encoded by transfected DNA constructs in a variety of cultured cells, including neuronal cells, the activities of nine different promoters were evaluated using Escherichia coli -galactosidase (-gal) (LacZ) as a reporter gene. These nine promoters were categorized into three distinct groups (high, intermediate, and low expresser), in terms of the levels of -gal expression. An expression vector containing the cytomegalovirus enhancer and the chick -actin promoter (high expresser) showed the highest levels of expression, followed by vectors containing the cytomegalovirus promoter/enhancer and the SV40 promoter/enhancer (intermediate expresser). The rest of the promoters (thymidine kinase, adenovirus, murine proliferative sarcoma virus, nerve growth factor receptor, Rous sarcoma and mouse mammary tumor virus, and -amyloid precursor protein) expressed low levels of -gal. These results were consistent for eight different cell types. A particularly attractive model is the stem cell, P19; cultures differentiating into progeny consisting predominantly of cholinergic neurons could be readily transfected with expression vectors using liposomes and expressed -gal without significant morphologic changes of the differentiated neurons. The systems should be useful for the study of promoters and various expressed proteins, including those involved in axonal transport. 
40205784|Two cell lines, i. e., BmE-SWU1 and BmE-SWU2, were established from silkworm embryonic tissues of the reversion phase through primary culture in Grace's medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum. The BmE-SWU1 cell line mainly included diploid spindle cells and round cells, which were large and had severe heteroploidy karyotypes. The population doubling time of the 30th passage of the cell line was 58.7 hr. BmE- SWU2 cells were oblong or round, and small. The population doubling time for the 30th passage of the cell line was 46.6 hr. Of BmE-SWU2 cells 89.9% were diploid (2n=56). Both strains were attached to epithelial-like cell lines and were susceptible to Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedroviruse (BmNPV). Inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) fingerprinting of silkworm embryonic cell line was obtained.
20172141| Human fetal lung at 16-19 weeks gestation has a partially differentiated epithelium, and in organ culture, distal airsacs dilate and the epithelium autodifferentiates to type I and II pneumatocytes, processes regulated by endogenous prostaglandin PGE. Human fetal trachea, at the same gestation, has a terminally differentiated mucociliary epithelium but after 4-6 d in organ culture, develops squamous metaplasia. Tracheal cultures restricted to 3 d have normal phase-contrast and light microscopy appearance and immunohistochemical reactivities (epithelium: cytokeratin 7,8,18; glutahione S-transferase pi-isozyme; epithelial membrane antigen and mesenchyme; desmin; vimentin). In human fetal trachea organ cultures, the predominant prostaglandins released are
4295118|A cell-line was established from bovine placental cotyledon. When cultured in M199 with 10% fetal bovine serum, this cell-line had a doubling time of about 18 h. With immunohistochemistry, it was demonstrated that this cell-line expressed vimentin and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). While both molecules are expressed in endothelial cells, ACE is usually considered to be a specific marker for endothelial cells. Furthermore, cells were shown to take up Dil-Ac-LDL (acetylated low-density lipoprotein labeled with 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3'-tetramethylindo-carbocyanine perchlorate). This characteristic feature has been used to identify endothelial cells. Finally, when cultured on matrigel, this cellline formed tube-like structures similar to those formed by endothelial cells. Tube-formation on matrigel is a physiological property specific to endothelial cells. In conclusion, these three lines of evidence strongly suggest that this cell-line is endothelial cell in nature. Further studies using an endothelial cell-line from bovine placenta may help to elucidate the cause of bovine placental retention, a major cause for economic loss in bovine industry. Furthermore, an endothelial cellline could be an important tool in research areas such as tissue remodeling, angiogenesis, and cancer.
4295483|Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are differences in the nucleotide sequence of a specific gene from different individuals. The frequency at which SNPs occur varies among individuals, is gene dependent, and may be influenced by the aging process or by mechanisms that result in cell transformation. Urokinase-plasminogen activator (uPA) is a serine protease that is important in embryonic development, aging, and the onset of pathogenic conditions. The frequency of SNP and the stability of the SNPs in the uPA gene have not been defined with regard to processes that are associated with cellular aging or transformation. In this study, the complete nucleotide sequence has been determined for the gene encoding uPA from 26 human diploid kidney cell lines. The frequency of SNP occurrence within the uPA gene and whether this frequency changed during cellular aging, or after cell transformation, were determined. The results demonstrated three donor-dependent SNPs. One SNP was located at base pair 422, which is in the region of the gene responsible for encoding the high-molecular weight domain of uPA (HMW-uPA). The other SNPs were located at base pairs 691 and 822, both of which are in the region of the gene responsible for encoding the low-molecular weight domain of uPA (LMW-uPA). Single-nucleotide polymorphisms were not detected in the portion of the gene responsible for encoding the uPA secretion signal. Leucine or proline would be encoded at amino acid 141 of HMW-uPA as the result of an SNP at base pair 422. The SNP detected at base pair 691 would encode for lysine or glutamine at amino acid 231 of LMW-uPA. The SNP detected at base pair 822 would not change the encoded asparagine located at position 274 of the protein. The SNPs identified in this study were donor dependent and were not altered during cellular aging, or by changes in karyology due to spontaneous transformation of the cell line. These results demonstrate that the integrity of the uPA gene is stable and not subject to alterations that accompany cell aging or transformation.
40205906|We have previously described a model to engineer three-dimensional (3-D) heart muscle in vitro. In the current study, we extend our model of 3-D heart muscle to engineer a functional cell-based cardiac pressure generating construct (CPGC). Tubular constructs were fabricated utilizing a phase separation method with chitosan as the scaffolding material. Primary cardiac cells isolated from rat hearts were plated on the surface of fibrin gels cast in 35 mm tissue culture dishes. CPGCs (N=8) were formed by anchoring the tubular constructs to the center of the plate with primary cardiac cells seeded in fibrin gels wrapped around the tubular constructs. Intraluminal pressure measurements were evaluated with and without external electrical stimulation and histological evaluation performed. The fibrin gel spontaneously compacted due to the traction force of the cardiac cells. By 14 d after original cell plating, the cardiac cells had completely formed a monolayer around the tubular construct resulting in the formation of a cell-based CPGC. The spontaneous contractility of the CPGC was macroscopically visible and resulted in intraluminal pressure spikes of 0.08 mmHg. Upon electrical stimulation, the CPGCs generated twitch pressures of up to 0.05 mmHg. In addition, the CPGC constructs were electrically paced at frequencies of up to 3 Hz. Histological evaluation showed the presence of a continuous cell monolayer around the surface of the tubular construct. In this study, we describe a novel in vitro method to engineer functional cell-based CPGCs and demonstrate several physiological metrics of functional performance.
40205939|Mycobacterium avium contamination has been described as a putative contaminant of nonphagocytic mammalian cells. Screening of numerous cultured nonphagocytic mammalian cell lines revealed the presence of intracellular bacteria that were identified as M. avium-intracellulare. An extensive and critical analysis of the origin of infection, of cure protocols, and of biological manifestations in M. avium-infected cells is presented. As no tremendous visible alteration of turbidity or pH of cell culture media, and no morphological change occurred in most M. avium-infected cell cultures, detection of an infection by these bacteria is rather difficult. Recommendations are given for treatment of irreplaceable cultures and prevention of mycobacterial contamination in a tissue culture facility.
4295212|During anuran metamorphosis dramatic changes in morphogenesis and differentiation of epidermis occur under the influence of thyroid hormones. Modification of ionic calcium concentration also markedly alters the pattern of proliferation and differentiation in amphibian epidermal cells in vitro. The present study was designed to determine the direct effect of low (0.05 mM) and high (0.5 mM) calcium (Ca
4295106|In an accompanying report (Moreno-Cuevas, J. E.; Sirbasku, D. A., In Vitro Cell. Dev. Biol.; 2000), we demonstrated 80-fold estrogen mitogenic effects with MTW9/PL2 rat mammary tumor cells in cultures supplemented with charcoal-dextran-treated serum. All sera tested contained an estrogen reversible inhibitor(s). The purpose of this report is to extend those observations to additional sex steroid-responsive human and rodent cell lines. Every line tested showed a biphasic response to hormone-depleted serum. Concentrations of
4295221|A highly nutritive culture medium (MGM-464) was developed for insect cell primary culture. The new medium consists of 6 inorganic salts, 4 organic acids, 21 amino acids, 3 sugars, 10 vitamins, and 8 other chemicals, including natural substances. The complete medium was generated by adding 20 ml fetal bovine serum to 100 ml MGM-464. The detail of the composition of the medium is given in a table, and the protocol to prepare the medium is described in the text. Among the 15 kinds of cultures made with MGM-464, embryonic cells from a walking stick and ovarian cells from the common white were subcultured more than 70 times, and embryonic cells of a chrysomelid beetle were subcultured more than 15 times. Other cultures could not be subcultured. However, embryonic cells from the commercial silkworm and a cockroach, ovarial cells from the commercial silkworm and a sphingid moth, nervous cells from the commercial silkworm and two sphingid moths, and cells from the dorsal vessel plus surrounding tissue of the commercial silkworm survived for several mo. The cells from the honeybee embryos, aphid embryos, and planthopper embryos were rather short-lived, and deteriorated after about 1 mo.
20616575|Marrow culture from mice has been reported to be overgrown by non-mesenchymal cells. In almost all protocols for isolation of murine mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), high density culture systems have been employed. Since MSCs are colonogenic cells, the initiating cell seeding density may have significant impact on their cultures. This subject was explored in this study. For this purpose, the bone marrow cells from NMRI mice were plated at 2.5  10 cells/cm and upon confluency were reseeded as either low density (50 cells/cm) or high density (8  10 cells/cm) cultures. The cells were expanded through an additional subculture and the passage 2 cells as a product of two culture systems were statistically compared with respect to their surface antigen profiles and osteogenic culture mineralization. While low density culture grew with multiple colony formation, there were no distinct colonies in high density cultures. In contrast to high density cultures, passage 2 cells from low density system possessed typical homogenous fibroblastic morphology. Some cells from high density system but not the low density cultures expressed hematopoietic and endothelial cell markers including CD135, CD34, CD31, and Vcam surface antigens. Furthermore, osteogenic cultures from low density system displayed significantly more mineralization than those from high density system. Taken together, it seems that low density culture system resulted in more purified MSC culture than its counterpart as high density culture system.
23279458|Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-induced bone marrow-derived cells (BMCs) and primary peritoneal exudate cells (PECs) are usually used for antigen presentation in in vitro experiments. In order to expound their tendency for uptake and antigen presentation, we compared differences in the degree of phagocytosis, the expression of co-stimulatory molecules, and the activation of T lymphocytes between these two cell types. These assays used the F4/80 marker expression, as it is the general marker for macrophages. The BMC population was found to contain both F4/80 bright and F4/80 dim subtypes, while PECs were mainly composed of the F4/80 bright subtype. Expression levels of cell surface co-stimulatory molecules, CD80, CD86, CD54, and CD40, were significantly higher for F4/80 + BMCs than F4/80 + PECs. Their expressions were further upregulated for F4/80 + BMCs than for F4/80 + PECs after stimulation with flagellin. F4/80 + BMCs had a weaker ability to phagocytize microbeads than F4/80 + PECs (P<0.05), and we determined no relationship between F4/80 expression and phagocytosis. T lymphocytes were activated more efficiently after incubation with BMCs pulsed with flagellin than with pulsed PECs. In this study, F4/80 + BMCs and F4/80 + PECs represent the bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) and peritoneal macrophages (PMs), respectively. These results indicate that PMs showed greater potential for phagocytosis, whereas GM-CSF-induced BMMs showed a tendency toward antigen presentation.
20172233| Fibroblasts in vivo reside in a three-dimensional (3-D) matrix. The 3-D culture method using collagen gels provides valuable information, but it also has some practical difficulties. In particular, the changes caused by the contraction of gels and the occasional abrupt detachment from the underlying surface have made extended culture difficult. In this study, the 3-D culture method was modified in order to observe the cells with minimal change of substrata for longer periods. The proliferation characteristics of fibroblasts cultured in gels in response to fetal calf serum (FCS), to two defined growth factors, insulin and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and to a growth inhibitory factor, prostaglandin E (PGE), were evaluated with this system in comparison with monolayer cultured fibroblasts. The DNA content of fibroblasts cultured both in gels and on dishes increased in response to FCS in a concentration-dependent manner. The proliferation of gel-cultured fibroblasts, however, was lower than that of dish-cultured cells, and higher concentrations of serum were necessary for proliferation. The response of gel-cultured cells to PDGF was also less than that of dish-cultured cells. In addition, fibroblasts cultured in gel culture did not respond to insulin, while the fibroblasts on dishes responded to insulin in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast to the reduced response to growth stimulators, PGE inhibited proliferation in gel culture and in monolayer culture similarly. The reduced responsiveness to growth stimulation but equivalent response to growth inhibition may account for reduced proliferation of fibroblasts in 3-D culture. 
23481753|Cytochrome P450s (P450s) are involved in the metabolism of arachidonic acid (ARA), and ARA metabolites are associated with various cellular signaling pathways, such as blood hemostasis and inflammation. The present study demonstrates the expression of ARA-metabolizing P450s in the human megakaryocytic Dami cells using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunublotting analysis followed by activity assays using ARA as a substrate. In addition to the previously identified CYP5A1, both protein and mRNAs of CYP1A1, 2U1, and 2J2 bands were detected. Ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity was observed in Dami cells, and its activity was significantly decreased after treatment with the P450 inhibitor SKF-525A when compared to the control groups (60% reduction, P<0.001). CYP1A1 protein expression in Dami cells was induced by 3-methylenecholantheren. This increase in CYP1A1 protein level was correlated with enhanced EROD activity (fourfold increase vs. the control), as well as with increased metabolites, such as 20-hydroxyeicosatrienoic acid (20-HETE), 14, 15-EET (14-,15-epoxyeicosatrienoic acid), and 14, 15-dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acid (14, 15-DHET). The expression of soluble epoxide hydrolase, an enzyme responsible for the synthesis of DHETs from EETs, was confirmed by RT-PCR. Furthermore, 15 ARA metabolites, including 8,9-EET, 14,15-EET, and 20-HETE, were detected by LC-MS/MS in ARA-treated Dami cells, and their levels were decreased with the treatment of the SKF-525A. The present data suggest the possibility that the P450s play a role in the metabolism of ARA and other CYP-related substrates in human megakaryocytes and that P450 expression in megakaryocytic cell lines may predict their existences in platelets with functional activities.
4294609|Tissue engineering studies were done using isolated cells, three-dimensional polymer scaffolds, and rotating bioreactors operated under conditions of simulated microgravity. In particular, vessel rotation speed was adjusted such that 10 mm diameter x 2 mm thick cell-polymer constructs were cultivated in a state of continuous free-fall. Feasibility was demonstrated for two different cell types: cartilage and heart. Conditions of simulated microgravity promoted the formation of cartilaginous constructs consisting of round cells, collagen and glycosaminoglycan (GAG), and cardiac tissue constructs consisting of elongated cells that contracted spontaneously and synchronously. Potential advantages of using a simulated microgravity environment for tissue engineering were demonstrated by comparing the compositions of cartilaginous constructs grown under four different in vitro culture conditions: simulated microgravity in rotating bioreactors, solid body rotation in rotating bioreactors, turbulent mixing in spinner flasks, and orbital mixing in petri dishes. Constructs grown in simulated microgravity contained the highest fractions of total regenerated tissue (as a percent of construct dry weight) and of GAG, the component required for cartilage to withstand compressive force.
4294701|Fibroblast growth factor-7 (FGF-7) and a specific splice variant of the FGF tyrosine kinase receptor family (FGFR2IIIb) consitute a paracrine signaling system from stroma to epithelium. Different effects of the manipulation of cellular heparan sulfates and heparin on activities of FGF-7 relative to FGF-1 in epithelial cells suggest that pericellular heparan sulfates may regulate the activity of FGF-7 by a different mechanism than other FGFs. In this report, we employ the heparan sulfate-binding protein, protamine sulfate, to reversibly block cellular heparan sulfates. Protamine sulfate, which does not bind significantly to FGF-7 or FGFR2IIIb, inhibited FGF-7 activities, but not those of epidermal growth factor. The inhibition was overcome by increasing the concentrations of FGF-7 or heparin. Heparin was essential for binding of FGF-7 to recombinant FGFR2IIIb expressed in insect cells or FGFR2IIIb purified away from cell products. These results suggest that, similar to other FGF polypeptides, heparan sulfate within the pericellular matrix is required for activity of FGF-7. Differences in response to heparin and alterations in the BULK heparan sulfate content of cells likely reflect FGF-specific differences in the cellular repertoire of multivalent heparan sulfate chains required for assembly and activation of the FGF signal transduction complex.
40663750|An insect dorsal vessel (DV) is well suited for a bioactuator since it is capable of contracting autonomously, and its tissue and cells are more environmentally robust under culturing conditions compared with mammalian tissue. In this study, electrical pulse stimulation was examined so as to regulate a bioactuator using the DV tissue. The DV tissue of a larva of Ctenoplusia agnate was assembled on a micropillar array, which was stimulated after culturing for about 3 wk. The contraction of the DV tissue was evaluated by image analysis to measure lateral displacements at the micropillar top. As a result, suitable stimulation conditions in a 35-mm petri dish were determined as: applied voltage of 10 V with 20-ms duration. Next, the time lag between the onset of electrical stimulus and the onset of mechanical contraction (electromechanical delay (EMD)) was estimated. A light-emitting diode (LED) was connected serially with the petri dish, and the LED flashed when electrical pulses were given. Movie images were analyzed in which electrical pulses made the DV tissue contract and the LED flashed virtually simultaneously; from these, the EMD was estimated as approximately 50 ms. These results suggest that the electrical pulse stimulation is capable of regulating the DV tissue, and the micropillar array is a useful biological tool to investigate physiological properties of muscle tissue.
4295203| Using five trophoblast cell lines of different differentiation status, we have shown that trophoblasts could constitutively release the transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF1), but not TGF2. Treatment of the human tumorigenic, TL, and BeWo cells with a differentiating agent and a potent protein kinase C activator-the tumor-promoting agent-or the JEG-3 cells with cholera toxin-a potent cyclic adenosine 3':5' monophosphate (cAMP) inducer-or its analogue 8-bromo-cAMP, potentiates TGF production, but the two signaling pathways appear to be mutually exclusive. Surprisingly, the JAR cell line failed to respond to either type of TGF activator. Based on reverse transcriptase (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR), it was found that only the JAR cell line expressed messenger ribonucleic acid for decorin, a natural inhibitor of TGF, and none of the cell lines had detectable protein expression as determined by immunocytochemical studies. The cell number in cultures with decorin was invariably lesser than in those without decorin under serum-free conditions for all the cell lines tested. These results suggest that TGF may act as an autocrine-survival factor for transformed trophoblasts by allowing the cells to survive longer under a microenvironment which is not favorable for growth. Lastly, our results indicate that decorin, acting in a paracrine manner, may also play an important negative regulatory role in the development of transformed trophoblasts by sequestering TGF, thereby preventing its action. 
4295037| The teratogenic potential of two antifungal triazoles (Triadimefon and Triadimenol) has been investigated in vitro by the rat postimplantation whole embryo culture method. Rat embryos 9.5 d old were cultured for 48 h in rat serum with Triadimefon (12.5-250 M) or Triadimenol (6.25-125 M) and then examined. Some embryos exposed to Triadimenol (6.25-125 M) were cultured for 12 extra hours in control serum to improve their developmental degree and then immunostain cranial nerves and ganglia. The exposure to the highest doses of triazoles only moderately reduced some morphometrical developmental parameters. By contrast, 25-250 M Triadimefon and 25-125 M Triadimenol induced specific concentration-related teratogenic effects at the level of first and second branchial arches. After immunostaining, embryos exposed to 12.5-125 M Triadimenol showed specific cranial nerve and ganglia abnormalities. The possible implication of neural crest cell alterations on triazole-related abnormalities is discussed. 
40205854|Osteosarcoma is the most common form of primary bone cancer. In this study, we established a human osteosarcoma cell line (OS 99-1) from a highly aggressive primary tumor. G-banding karyotype analysis demonstrated a large number of clonal abnormalities, as well as extensive intercellular heterogeneity. Through the use of immunologic, molecular, and biochemical analyses, we characterized protein and gene expression profiles confirming the osteogenic nature of the cells. Further evaluation indicated that OS 99-1 cells maintain the capacity to differentiate in an in vitro mineralization assay as well as form tumors in the in vivo chicken embryo model. This cell line provides a useful tool to investigate the molecular mechanisms contributing to osteosarcoma and may have the potential to serve as a culture system for studies involving bone physiology.
4294101|This study examined the role of odd and even short-chain fatty acid substrates on aerobic and glycolytic metabolism in well-aerated primary cultures of rabbit renal proximal tubule cells (RPTC). Increasing oxygen delivery to primary cultures of RPTC by shaking the dishes (SHAKE) reduced total lactate levels and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity and reduced net glucose consumption compared to RPTC cultured under standard conditions (STILL). The addition of butyrate, valerate, heptanoate, or octanoate to SHAKE RPTC produced variable effects on glycolytic metabolism. Although butyrate and heptanoate further reduced total lactate levels and net glucose consumption during short-term culture (< 24 h), no fatty acid tested further reduced total lactate levels, net glucose consumption, or LDH activity during long-term culture (7 days). During the first 12 h of culture, maintenance of aerobic metabolism in SHAKE RPTC was dependent on medium supplementation with fatty acid substrates (2 mM). However, by 24 h, SHAKE RPTC did not require fatty acid substrates to maintain levels of aerobic metabolism equivalent to freshly isolated proximal tubules and greater than STILL RPTC. This suggests that SHAKE RPTC undergo adaptive changes between 12 and 24 h of culture, which give RPTC the ability to utilize other substrates for mitochondrial oxidation, therefore allowing greater expression of mitochondrial oxidative potential in SHAKE RPTC than in STILL RPTC.
41318689|Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) maintain gamete production in the testes throughout adult life by balancing self-renewal and differentiation. In vitro culture of SSCs is a crucial technique for gene manipulation of SSCs to generate transgenic animals, for transplantation of SSCs to restore male fertility for infertile man, and for generation of pluripotent stem cells from SSCs to differentiate into various cell lineages. Isolation of highly purified SSCs is an all-important component for development of these techniques. However, definitive markers for SSCs, which purify SSCs (100% enrichment), are unknown. SSCs of many species can colonize the mouse testis; thus, we reasoned that same molecules of SSCs are conserved between species. In mouse, undifferentiated spermatogonia express the surface marker E-cadherin. The hypothesis tested in this work was that E-cadherin (also known as CDH1) can be expressed by undifferentiated spermatogonia of rat testes. In this paper, cross-section immunohistochemistry and whole-mount immunohistochemistry of rat seminiferous tubules were conducted to show that E-cadherinpositive cells were small in number and there are single, paired, and aligned spermatogonia attached along the basement membrane. During in vitro culture period, the undifferentiated rat spermatogonial colonies co-expressed E-cadherin and glial-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha-1 or E-cadherin and promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger. Data collected during the study demonstrate that E-cadherin is expressed by a small population of rat undifferentiated spermatogonia both in vivo and during in vitro culture period.
20869585|Human embryonic stem (hES) cells possess the ability to self-renew indefinitely and provide a potential source of differentiated progeny representing all three embryonic germ layers. Although hES cell lines share the expression of typical pluripotency markers, limited data is available regarding their differentiation capabilities. We have earlier reported the in-house derivation of two hES cell lines, KIND-1 and KIND-2 on human feeders. Here, we describe a comparative study carried out on both these cell lines to better understand the differentiation potential of KIND-1 and KIND-2 by gene expression analysis of representative gene transcripts reflecting pluripotency and the three germ layers viz. ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm. Gene expression analysis and immunolocalization studies were undertaken on (a) 7- and 14-d old embryoid bodies (EBs) (b) spontaneously differentiated cells from EBs, (c) cells derived from EBs under the influence of various growth factor treatments and (d) KIND-1 and KIND-2 cells co-cultured on mouse embryonic visceral endoderm-like feeder (END-2). Despite both the cell lines being XX, derived, passaged, and cultured similarly, KIND-1 exhibits preferential differentiation towards endodermal lineage whereas KIND-2 spontaneously forms beating cardiomyocytes. Perhaps the occurrence of discrete epigenetic profile in both the cell lines predisposes them to encompass different developmental potential in vitro. Our data provide evidence for existence of distinct differentiation propensity among hES cell lines and emphasizes the need to derive more hES cell lines for future regenerative medicine.
40205865|In vitro production of the obligate intracellular bacterium, Wolbachia pipientis, is essential to its manipulation as a genetic tool to spread transgenes within vector populations. We have adapted the Wolbachia-infected Aa23 Aedes albopictus mosquito cell line to Eagle's minimal medium, supplemented with nonessential amino acids, glutamine, and 20% fetal bovine serum. When plated at low densities, Aa23E cells grew as patchy monolayers, comprised of non-contiguous clusters of cells that gave rise to solid clumps of tightly adherent cells. Multicellular clumps eventually detached from the substrate and floated freely in the medium. Removal of Wolbachia by treatment with tetracycline did not alter the cytological properties of the host cells, which had a population doubling time of 4-5 d. The presence of Wolbachia was monitored by Giemsa staining of cytological preparations, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of Wolbachia 16S ribosomal DNA, and by simultaneous PCR amplification of ribosomal protein genes from Wolbachia and mosquito host cell genomes. Wolbachia morphology was pleomorphic, and Wolbachia DNA persisted in the culture medium for several weeks after degradation of PCR-amplifiable host cell DNA.
4294370|
               
24596446|Human melanocyte stem cells (MSCs) or melanoblasts are not well-investigated owing to the devoid of suitable culture system. Establishing cell lines of MSCs and/or their progenies from human hair follicles will provide a better opportunity to satisfy clinical needs and to enable a deeper understanding of hair-related diseases. In the present study, we cultured melanocytes derived from human fetal hair follicles, perform immunocytochemistry and Fontana Masson staining on them, and employed atomic force microscopy (AFM) and scanning electron microscopy to observe their subtle morphologies. The results show that the cultured melanocytes have a bipolar or tripolar appearance, which obviously differ from cultured epidermal melanocytes. Compared to cells derived from adult human hair follicles, these cells display a high proliferative capability and exhibit a clonal growth behavior. At the second passage, all these cells were positive for immunocytochemical staining with the NKI/beteb monoclonal antibody and Fontana Masson staining. Under AFM, the cells exhibited rounded, oval, triangular, or quadrangular perikarya, from which two or three dendrites arose. The dendritic arbor was not homogeneous but appeared as spindle-shaped dendritic swellings, knob-like processes, without any filopodia arising from the dendrites or the cell body. Without using a feeder layer, we successfully obtained the clonal growth of melanocytes from human fetal HFs, suggesting that the medium was suitable for the growth of MSCs and their progenies.
4295356|Continuous beta blockade stimulates deposition of collagen in the pulmonary alveolar interstitium of adult rats. It also causes changes to the capillary endothelial cell compartment reminiscent of programmed cell death. To test whether beta blockade results in endothelial cell apoptosis, cultures of capillary endothelial cells were treated with both a wide-spectrum beta blocker and a beta-2-specific antagonist. Apoptosis was measured in these cultures using both terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling and annexin-V assays. Both forms of beta blockade stimulated programmed cell death in these cultures. To test whether the apoptotic effect of beta blockade was related to interstitial collagen deposition, capillary endothelial cells were cocultured with beta-blocked pulmonary fibroblast monolayers. Cocultured endothelial cells were substantially protected from apoptosis after beta blockade; coculture over plain tissue culture plastic or over exogenous collagen films had no effect on programmed cell death in endothelial cells. These results suggest that both pulmonary endothelial and interstitial cells are vulnerable to injury from beta blockade but that paracrine interactions between these cells may protect the peripheral lung from substantive damage.
40205855|Summary The effect of cortisol on calcium (Ca) transport across cultured rainbow trout gill epithelia composed of both pavement cells (PVCs) and mitochondria-rich cells (MRCs) was examined. Under symmetrical culture conditions (L15 media apical/L15 media basolateral), cortisol had subtle effects on gill epithelial preparations. Both control and cortisol treated epithelia exhibited Ca influx and efflux rates (measured radioisotopically using Ca) that were approximately balanced, with a slight inwardly directed net Ca flux. Ussing flux ratio analysis indicated active Ca transport in the inward direction across epithelia bathed symmetrically regardless of hormone treatment. In contrast, under asymmetrical conditions (freshwater apical/L15 media basolateral) control epithelia exhibited active Ca transport in the outward direction (basolateral to apical) throughout experiments conducted over a 24-h period, whereas cortisol-treated preparations exhibited active transport in the inward direction (apical to basolateral) during the early stages of an asymmetrical culture period (e.g., TD-6h) and passive transport during the later stages (e.g., T18-24 h). When soft freshwater (with tenfold lower [Ca]) was used for asymmetrical culture instead of freshwater, control epithelia developed outwardly directed active Ca transport properties, whereas cortisoltreated preparations did not. The results of this study support a hypercalcemic role for cortisol in rainbow trout and demonstrate that treating cultured gill epithelia composed of both PVCs and MRCs with cortisol can stimulate active Ca uptake under circumstances that more closely resemble natural conditions for fish gills (i.e., freshwater bathing the apical side of the epithelium).
4295054|Cell lines are valuable resources for the study of the malignancy and potential therapy of human breast cancer. A major problem with adapting fresh breast tumor specimens to grow in vitro is contamination by fibroblasts. Previously, we have reported a technique to overcome this problem (Nayak, S. K; Dillman, R. O. Clin. Biotechnol. 3:237-242; 1991). We have recently established two new breast cancer cell lines, HH315 and HH375, that were derived from abdominal and supraclavicular lymph node metastases from two patients. They were characterized by (1) growth kinetics; (2) staining with monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) to cytokeratin-19, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), anticarcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), breast cancer antigen 1 (BRST-1), breast cancer antigen 2 (BRST-2), Her2/neu, and p53; (3) expression of domains of urinary plasminogen activator (uPA), neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), and haptoglobin (Hp) (Harvey et al., 1997); and (4) karyotypic analysis. Growth kinetic studies showed that doubling times for both lines ranged from 48 to 96 h. These two cell lines were found to have characteristics of the metastatic breast cancer cells. Both lines stained positive with MoAbs to cytokeratin-19 and EMA, thus confirming their epithelial origin. They also strongly reacted with the pan-breast carcinoma MoAbs BRST-1 and BRST-2, and carcinoembryonic CEA MoAb. Both cell lines overexpressed the oncogene proteins Her2/neu and p53. The tumor cells were negative for estrogen and progesterone receptors. HH315 cells were poorly differentiated, whereas the HH375 cells exhibited adenocarcinoma morphology. Both cell lines showed intense cell surface and some cytoplasmic staining for uPA, NCAM, and Hp domains, which is a characteristic of malignant neoplasms (Harvey et al., 1997). The HH375 cell line showed two cell types, of which 60% were hyperdiploids with 60-70 chromosomes and 5-10 marker chromosomes. The remaining cells were polyploid with more than 200 chromosomes. Cell line HH315 consisted of only a polyploid population. These cell lines may be useful in breast cancer research.
40205849|Cell immortalization technology based on gene transfer has been successfully used to generate cell lines from a wide variety of cell types. The inability to stably introduce and express foreign genes has hampered application of this strategy in shrimp cells. We report here the use of replication-defective pantropic retrovirus to achieve a novel immortalization vector in which simian virus 40 large Tantigen (SV40T) gene is expressed from Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV) promoter. Data confirmed the presence of transferred SV40T gene and its stable mRNA expression in transduced lymphoid cells of Penaeus chinensis. The transduced cells showed a higher growth rate and a longer replication life-span compared with their untransduced counterparts. These results indicate the pantropic retrovirus-based immortalization-inducing gene delivery system is a potential tool for establishing cell lines from shrimp.
4295006|Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is one of the most frequent human inherited diseases. The main feature of the disease is the development of renal cysts, first occurring in the proximal tubules, and with time, dominating all segments of the nephron, leading to end-stage renal disease in 50% of the patients in their fifth decade of life. A therapy for polycystic kidney disease (PKD) has not yet been developed. Patients coming to end-stage ADPKD require long-term dialysis and/or transplantation. A suitable animal model to study ADPKD is the spontaneously mutated Han:SPRD (cy/ +) rat, but a method to cultivate Han:SPRD (cy/ +) derived renal cells which preserves their ability to form cyst-like structures in vitro has previously not been reported. Based on this well-characterized animal model, we developed a cell culture model of renal cyst formation in vitro. When renal cells of the Han:SPRD (cy/ +) rat were isolated and cultured under conditions that prevent cell-substratum adhesion, large amounts of cyst-like structures were formed de novo from HanrSPRD (cy/ +) derived renal cells, but only a few from control rat renal cells. In contrast, when cultivated on plastic as monolayer cultures, Han:SPRD (cy/ +)-derived and control rat-derived renal cells were indistinguishable and did not form cyst-like structures. Immunohistochemical characterization of the cyst-like structures suggests tubular epithelial origin of the cyst-forming cells. The amount of cysts formed from Han:SPRD (cy/ +)-derived renal cells grown in a stationary suspension culture is susceptible to modulation by different conditions. Human cyst fluid and epidermal growth factor both stimulated the formation of cysts from Han:SPRD (cy/ +)-derived renal cells whereas taxol inhibited cystogenesis. In contrast, neither human cyst fluid nor epidermal growth factor affected the amount of cysts formed by control rat renal cells. As the culture model reported here allows not only the distinction of PKD-derived tubular epithelium from its normal counterpart, but also the modulation of cyst formation especially by Han:SPRD (cy/ +)-derived renal cells, it might be a useful prescreening protocol for potential treatments for PKD and thus reduce the need for animal experiments.
40205877|The Nicotiana tabacum lectin, called Nictaba, is a nucleocytoplasmic plant lectin expressed in tobacco leaves after exogenous application of specific jasmonates and upon insect herbivory. Since the lectin concentrations are rather low, huge amounts of plant material are needed to purify milligram quantities of the protein. In addition, the purified lectin fractions are always contaminated with low molecular weight compounds such as phenols. In an attempt to improve and facilitate the purification of the tobacco lectin in reasonable amounts, an in vitro-coupled transcription/translation system based on an Escherichia coli lysate was used to express the lectin gene. Recombinant expression levels could be enhanced by an adapted codon usage. Recombinant lectin was purified, biochemically characterized and found to be biologically active. The biological activity of the recombinant lectin towards insect epithelial midgut cells was clearly demonstrated in a functional bio-assay and the internal cellular localization was analyzed using immunocytochemical techniques.
41512868|We established a continuous cell line from the embryo of the mosquito Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles (Diptera: Culicidae), a known major vector of the Japanese encephalitis virus (family Flaviviridae, genus Flavivirus) in Asia. The cell line, designated NIID-CTR, was serially subcultured in VP-12 medium supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS). It continued to grow for more than 60 passages over a 750-d period. The NIID-CTR cell line mainly comprised two morphologically distinct types of cells with adhesive properties: spindle-shaped and round cells. Most of the NIID-CTR cells at the 45th passage were diploid (2n=6). The growth kinetics of the NIID-CTR cells was significantly affected by the FBS concentration in the medium. The population doubling time of the NIID-CTR cells was 20 h in the presence of 10% FBS and 76 h in its absence. The DNA sequence of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene confirmed that the NIID-CTR cell line was derived from C. tritaeniorhynchus. The cells were highly susceptible to Japanese encephalitis and Dengue viruses, thus providing a valuable tool for the study of mosquito-bome flaviviruses.
4294242|This study reports for the first time the establishment of immortalized cell lines from normal adult rat parotid glands. The freshly prepared cellular clumps obtained from parotid glands of isoproterenol-treated rats were incubated in 0.2% trypsin solution without EDTA. These clumps were transfected with plasmid vectors
4294255|We describe here a modified nonenzymatic method for the isolation of rat aortic endothelial cells with vasoformative properties. Aortic rings placed on plastic or gelatin-coated surfaces generated outgrowths primarily composed of endothelial cells. Prompt removal of aortic explants after endothelial migration minimized fibroblast contamination. However, fibroblasts, because of their high proliferative rate tended to overgrow the endothelial cells even when present in small numbers. This potential pitfall was avoided by weeding out fibroblasts with the rounded tip of a bent glass pipette. Primary endothelial colonies free of fibroblasts were segregated in cloning rings, trypsin-treated, and transferred to gelatin-coated dishes. Endothelial cells were cultured in MCDB 131 growth medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum, endothelial cell growth supplement, and heparin. Using this technique, pure endothelial cell strains were obtained from single aortic rings. Confluent endothelial cells formed a contact-inhibited monolayer with typical cobblestone pattern. The endothelial cells were positive for Factor VIII-related antigen, took up DiI-Ac-LDL, and bound the Griffonia Simplicifolia-isolectin-B4. Endothelial cells cultured on collagen gel formed a polarized monolayer, produced basement membrane, displayed Weibel-Palade bodies and caveolae, and were connected by tight junctions. In addition, they reorganized into a network of microvascular cords and tubes when overlaid with a second layer of collagen and formed microvascular sprouts in response to fibroblast-conditioned medium. This isolation procedure yields stable strains of vasoformative endothelial cells, which can be used to study aortic endothelium-related angiogenesis and its mechanisms.
4294886|A wide variety of experimental animal models have been used to investigate the mechanisms of synthesis, storage, and release of catecholamines. Whereas in vivo experimental models are situated at one end of the spectrum, cell culture models are situated at the other end. In the present study, we have characterized various aspects of the rat adrenal medulla cultured in vitro as a whole tissue, aiming to establish a new experimental model in between in vivo animal models and cell culture models. We adapted a bottle rotator system commonly used for culturing rodent whole embryos. Changes in histology, activities and mRNA levels of catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes, and concentrations of catecholamines in the adrenal medulla were studied. In addition, the effects of cholinergic stimulation on catecholamine release from the adrenal medulla were examined. Overall the results indicate that various aspects of the adrenal medulla become stable after 4 d of culture and the adrenal medulla at this stage releases catecholamines in response to cholinergic stimulation. The whole adrenal medulla culture system may be a useful tool for investigating catecholamine-related functions dependent on intercellular reactions or communications.
4295242| Most parthenogenetic embryos (PEs) in mammals die shortly after implantation, and this failure to develop is associated with genomic imprinting. We have examined the influence of human recombinant basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) and human recombinant insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) on the development of (CBA x C57BL/6)F1 parthenogenetic mouse embryos. Embryos were treated in vitro at the morula stage with different doses of FGF-2 and, after their development to blastocysts, transferred to pseudopregnant recipients. The optimal doses of FGF-2 did not affect the number of forming and implanting blastocysts, but increased, from 20 to 42%, the number of embryos developing to somite stages. PEs (18-21 somites) treated with an optimal dose of FGF-2 were explanted for further development in culture by treatment with the second growth factor, IGF-II. Eighty-three percent of those embryos cultured with IGF-II (2.5 g/ml) developed to 35 or more somites, as compared with 36% of embryos cultured without any growth factors (P < 0.01). Also, a significantly higher proportion of PEs developed to 40-50 somites in this case. These results show that the in vitro treatment of PEs with FGF-2 at the morula stage increases the number of somite embryos, and the second treatment of somite PEs with IGF-II in culture medium prolongs their development significantly. 
40205803|A total of 13 insect cell lines spanning 4 orders (Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, and Homoptera) were tested for their ability to replicate the nonoccluded virus Hz-1. Only the Lepidopteran cell lines supported replication of the virus with TN-CL1 and BCIRL-HZ-AM1 producing the highest titers of 2.4x10 tissue culture infective dose (TCID)/ml and 2.0x10 TCID/ml, respectively. A codling moth cell line (CP-169) was the only Lepidopteran cell line that did not replicate the virus and transfection of this cell line with Hz-1 DNA failed to replicate the virus. Also, transfection with DNA from a recombinant baculovirus carrying the red fluorescent protein gene (AcMNPVhsp70 Red) was not expressed in CP-169 cells. The replication cycle of Hz-1 in BCIRLHZ-AM1 cells showed that this virus replicated rapidly starting at 16 h postinoculation (p.i.) and reaching a peak titer of 1.0x10TCID /ml 56 h postinoculation. Hz-1 when compared with several other baculoviruses has the widest in vitro host spectrum.
4294543|Many studies have shown that human gingival keratinocytes grown in submerged culture fail to attain optimal differentiation. This study reports an in vitro culture system for oral gingival epithelial cells, in which they are grown at the airliquid interface, on polycarbonate inserts, in the presence of an NIH-3T3 feeder layer. This model was compared with two submerged culture methods for gingival keratinocytes, on type I collagen gel and on an NIH-3T3 feeder layer. Transmission electron microscopy showed an advanced level of stratification (over six layers of cells) for cultures grown at the air-liquid interface. Immunofluorescence and electrophoretic patterns showed the presence of cytokeratins 10 and 11 in cytoskeletal protein extracts of these cultured keratinocytes. In this air-liquid interface culture model, in the presence of NIH-3T3 feeder cells, keratinocytes can achieve an advanced level of stratification and differentiation and a resemblance to in vivo gingiva. The obtention of a highly differentiated epithelium will permit in vitro pharmacological studies and studies on the biocompatability of certain alloys with the superficial periodontium; it will also provide grafts for patients undergoing periodontal surgery.
4294715| The analysis of the gel electrophoresis banding patterns and relative migration distances for the individual isoforms of intracellular enzymes, such as lactate dehydrogenase, purine nucleoside phosphorylase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and malate dehydrogenase, is used routinely in the biopharmaceutical industry for confirmation of cell line species of origin. In the present study, the sensitivity of the technique (AuthentiKit, Innovative Chemistry, Marshfield, MA) for determining interspecies cell line cross-contamination was examined. Extracts were prepared from a CHO-K1 line (AA8, Chinese hamster), MRC-5 (human) cells, and L929 (mouse) cells and from several proportional mixtures of the various binary combinations of cells. The isoenzymes were analyzed according to standard procedures for the technique. Contamination of MRC-5 cells with CH0-K1 or with L929 cells was clearly detectable with each enzyme analyzed. Similarly, the contamination of L929 or CH0-K1 cells with MRC-5 cells was readily apparent with each enzyme. On the other hand, contamination of CHO-K1 cells with L929 cells was only detected with lactate dehydrogenase analysis, and contamination of L929 cells with CHO-K1 cells was not detected with any of the four enzymes examined. For the latter case, the analysis of an additional enzyme (peptidase B) was required. The results indicate that interspecies cross-contamination should be detectable with isoenzyme analysis if the contaminating cells represent at least 10% of the total cell population. 
4294718|A stable porcine kidney epithelial cell line, FS-L3, was established and maintained in Eagle's minimum essential medium containing 0.295% tryptose phosphate broth, 0.5% Bacto Peptone, and 10 mM N, N-Bis (2-hydroxyethyl)-2-aminoethanesulfonic acid without any serum. The mode of chromosomes is 37 to 38. The FS-L3 cells formed fluid-filled, multicellular, three-dimensional domes on a single monolayer. The number of domes increased markedly after further cultivation. The origin of this cell line was confirmed as porcine by hybridization using PRE-1, which can be detected as a specific sequence in the porcine genome. It was also found that FS-L3 cells were free from possible adventitious viruses and mycoplasmas.
20616554|A fibroblast line was successfully established from Mongolian horse ear marginal tissue by using a primary explant technique and cell cryogenic preservation technology. Biological analysis showed the following: The cells were adherent and exhibited density-dependent inhibition of proliferation; assays of microbial contamination from bacteria, fungi, and mycoplasma were negative; the population doubling time of the cells was 33.9 h; and a 2n chromosome number of 64 at a frequency higher than 80%. A lack of cross-contamination of this cell line with other species was confirmed by isoenzyme analysis of lactic and malic dehydrogenases. In order to study exogenous gene expression, four fluorescent proteins, pEGFP-N3, pEGFP-C1, pDsRed1-N1, and pEYFP-N1, were transfected into the cells. The corresponding fluorescence was distributed throughout the cytoplasm and nucleus 12 h after transfection. This cell line not only preserves the genetic resources of the Mongolian horse at the cellular level but also provides valuable materials for genomic, postgenomic, and somacloning research in this species.
4294423|The potential use of porcine hepatocytes in a bioartificial liver device requires large quantities of viable and highly active cells. To facilitate the scaling up of the system, liver specific activities of hepatocytes should be maximized. One way of enhancing the specific activities is to cultivate hepatocytes as multicellular spheroids. Freshly isolated porcine hepatocytes form spheroids when cultivated in suspended cultures. These spheroids exhibit higher activities for a number of liver specific functions compared to hepatocytes cultivated as monolayers. However, these activities decreased in a few days in culture. Entrappment of spheroids in collagen gel sustained their metabolic activities at a stable level over 21 days. Production of albumin and urea by spheroid hepatocytes entrapped in collagen gels were 2 to 3 times higher than those by freshly isolated single cells. P-450 activity was demonstrated by metabolism of lidocaine to its main metabolite, mono-ethylglycinexylidide. Phase II drug metabolism was demonstrated by glucuronidation of 4-methylumbelliferone. This work shows that porcine hepatocyte spheroids entrapped in collagen maintain differentiated functions for an extended time period. Such hepatocyte spheroid entrappment system may facilitate the development of a bioartificial liver support device.
4294168|Simian virus 40 (SV40) large T antigen (T), a potent dominant oncogene product, forms a specific complex with the human retinoblastoma protein (pRb), a cellular growth suppressor. We have used a recombinant pRb fusion protein (GST-Rb) in combination with extracts from a line of SV40-transformed human lung cells (WI-26 VA4) to develop a simple, non-radioactive assay to rapidly screen for competitive inhibitors of T/pRb binding. We illustrate the use of the assay by demonstrating that several short peptides containing the signature sequence, Leu-X-Cys-X-Glu, can inhibit T/pRb complex formation. In contrast, peptides containing the related motif, Leu-X-Glu-X-Glu, including two peptides derived from the transcription factor E2F, are inactive in this assay. These results show that Glu cannot substitute for Cys in the Leu-X-Cys-X-Glu motif. This assay will facilitate the identification of agents that are inhibitors of T/pRb complex formation and that might exert effects on cellular growth regulation.
4295186|Primary cultures of fish hepatocytes have been used as a convenient model for studies on cytochrome expression. Here we have further examined the regulation of CYP enzymes in this model. A transient increase in CYP1A1 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity occurred within h after medium change. This event implies that either an exogenous, quickly metabolized CYP1A1 inducer was introduced to the hepatocytes with the fresh medium, or that the mechanical act of changing the medium disrupts the cell homeostasis, which in turn activates CYP1A1 transcription or alternatively stabilizes CYP1A1 mRNA. CYP1A1 has been shown to be highly in ducible in primary cultures of rainbow trout hepatocytes by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) via an aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) receptor-mediated activation of gene transcription. In the present study, CYP1A1 was strongly induced by TCDD, whereas CYP2K1, a constitutively expressed cytochrome P450 (CYP), was refractory to the same treatment. Cycloheximide efficiently blocked protein synthesis in the cell culture, and thus the apparent half-life of CYP1A1 (measured as EROD activity) could be estimated. In cells treated with TCDD for 24 h the CYP1A1 apparent half-life was estimated to be 15.9 h. When ethoxycoumarin-O-deethylase activity was used as an indicator of CYP levels, a considerably longer half-life of 27.1 h was estimated. The level of CYP2K1 remained constant throughout the study and was not sensitive to cycloheximide exposure (30 h), indicating a considerably longer half-life of this protein in cell culture.
4294739|Immortal cells perpetuate the rises and falls of proliferation that are progressively damped in mortal long-term cultured cells. For immortal rat hepatoma Fao cells, similar waves of proliferation occurred about every 3-4 wk. Under the same conditions, embryonic human fibroblasts and transformed but not immortalized embryonic fibroblasts display similarly recurring proliferation waves that progressively decrease in amplitude until senescence of the lines. In addition, strains of diploid normal human skin fibroblasts cultured under different culture conditions display a similar time-pattern of proliferation. Although the amplitude and baseline of these fluctuations are characteristic for each cell line, a common point was marked slow down in proliferation after every sequence of about 25 population doublings for all cells. Renewed proliferation waves of Fao cells allow about 22-23 additional population doublings each. Normal embryonic fibroblast culture and its transformed counterpart accumulate about 30 and 60 population doublings, respectively, before senescence. Normal fibroblast strains accumulate about 25 population doublings over their entire life spans. This halt in proliferation after every stretch of about 25 population doublings may correspond to a structural or functional stop following attrition of telomeric DNA. This putative stop may be bypassed once in transformed embryonic cells and repetitively in immortal cells. In support of this hypothesis, we observed rapid telomere shortening, in two steps, during divisions of mortal embryonic cells, and maintenance of long telomeres in immortal Fao cells, which may indicate episodic repair of telomeres. Alternatively, such maintenance of long telomeres may reflect survival and successive clonal growth of rare cells with long telomeres. We suggest that the balance between telomere attrition and repair processes regulates the waves of proliferation.
4294641|Effects of nonchelating and chelating agents at 10 mM on the serum-free culture of rat dermal fibroblasts were investigated. A strong iron-chelating agent, iminodiacetic acid (IDA), and a weak one, dihydroxyethylglycine (DHEG), decreased iron permeation into preconfluent fibroblasts. A weak iron-chelating agent, glycylglycine (GG), a nonchelating agent, N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine -N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), and human apotransferrin (
20616599|Primary fibroblast-like cells isolated from the peripheral blood of a healthy pig were immortalized by transduction of cells with a replication-defective retrovirus vector expressing the E6/E7 proteins of human papillomavirus type 16 (pLXSN-16E6E7). The immortalized cells grow rapidly in cell culture and exhibit a distinct cell surface phenotype that was positive for CD90, CD44, collagen I, and vimentin and negative for CD14 and MHC II. Additionally, these immortalized blood derived-fibroblast-like cells had the potential to differentiate into osteoblasts and adipocytes in vitro as evidenced by the deposition of calcium, increased alkaline phosphatase activity, upregulated osteogenic and adipogenic marker gene expression, and accumulation of fat droplets in cells when osteogenic (dexamethasone, ascorbic acid, and -glycerophosphate) or adipogenic supplements (dexamethasone, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, indomethacin, and insulin) were added to the culture. Overall, the results suggest that the immortalized blood-derived fibroblast-like cells exhibit some of the features of mesenchymal precursor cells, which may have implications in tissue repair and remodeling process.
4294149|Increased expression of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) A chain, and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) by smooth muscle cells (SMC) has been postulated to mediate the progression of intimai hyperplasia. We tested whether heparin would suppress the expression of these genes in stimulated human saphenous vein SMC. Quiescent cultured human saphenous vein SMC were stimulated for 4 h with heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (10% by vol) in the presence or absence of heparin (1 to
4294079| Inasmuch as hair follicles are difficult to maintain in culture, the study of hair biology using cultured hair follicles has met with only limited success. In our attempts to solve the problem of follicle degeneration, we cultured follicles at the air-surface interface on a modified collagen matrix (Gelfoam). In follicles cultured at the air-surface or submerged, we examined follicular morphology, hair shaft growth, sulfotransferase levels, cysteine incorporation, an expression of a tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP), and ultra-high sulfur keratin (UHSK). Follicles cultured at the air-liquid interface produced a 2.7-fold increase in hair growth and maintained an anagen-like morphology. Substrates such as nylon mesh seeded with fibroblasts, Full Thickness Skin, or 5-m polycarbonate filter also supported hair growth, whereas Gelfilm, GF-A glass filter, filter paper, or 1-m polycarbonate filter did not. The UHSK expression was significantly higher in the air-liquid interface cultures compared to the submerged culture. Several potassium channel openers, including minoxidil, a minoxidil analog, and the pinacidil analog (P-1075), all stimulated significant cysteine incorporation in follicles. Minoxidil and its analog specifically preserved the follicular root sheath, in contrast to P-1075 which did not, indicating a difference in the two drug types. The preservation of the root sheath was measured by increased TIMP expression and sulfotransferase activity and indicates that the root sheath is a target tissue for minoxidil. Our results show that follicles cultured at the air-liquid interface maintain a better morphology and produced greater hair growth than follicles cultured on tissue culture plastic. 
20869556|Osteoblast differentiation is tightly regulated by a number of cytokines and growth factors, including bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) which stimulate osteoblast differentiation by signal transduction via three BMP receptors (BMPR-IA, -IB and -II). Although the mechanisms which regulate osteoblast differentiation are not fully understood, it is possible that endogenous BMPR signaling could play an important part in this process. To test this hypothesis, we have examined the expression and the functional significance of BMPR during osteoblast differentiation of primary human bone cells. The results showed that although the expression of BMPR-IA and -II transcripts were constantly expressed while the bone cells underwent osteoblast differentiation, the level of BMPR-IB mRNA was transiently, but significantly, up-regulated by threefold on day 3. This increase in BMPR-IB expression was found to be associated with the significant up-regulation of core binding factor alpha 1 (Cbfa1) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) transcripts as well as the ALP activity, the well-established early markers of osteoblast differentiation. Transfection of bone cells with BMPR-IB small interfering RNA (siRNA) was found to significantly ablate the expression of BMPR-IB which subsequently resulted in reduction of Cbfa1 and ALP mRNA as well as the ALP activity. Moreover, exogenously added BMP-2 failed to rescue osteoblast differentiation of BMPR-IB siRNA-transfected bone cells. In conclusion, the present study has shown that endogenous BMPR-IB signaling is required for early phase of osteoblast differentiation of human bone cells in vitro, suggesting that BMPR-IB could be a therapeutic target for initiating bone healing in vivo.
20172191| Neuroblastomas are neural crest-derived tumors that contain neuronal, melanocyte, and Schwann cell precursors. We examined the effects of treatment with -interferon (-IFN) and nerve growth factor (NGF), alone, and in combination, on these progenitor subpopulations in the human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y. Using fluorescence-activated flow cytometry (FACS), changes in expression of three differentiation-specific or -associated marker proteins, the 200 kD neurofilament protein, the myelin basic protein, and the S-100 protein, were analyzed. Growth rates and morphological changes associated with each treatment over the 2-wk incubation period were noted. The greatest effects were observed with combined IFN + NGF treatment. These were significant increases in expression of all three proteins, distinctive morphological signs of differentiation, and extensive inhibition of proliferation compared to control cultures. Treatment with NGF alone resulted in increased neurofilament protein expression and in the length and number of neurite extensions, but there was no effect on the growth rate. IFN induced striking morphological changes, significant inhibition of growth, and changes in protein expression that correlated with neuronal to non-neuronal subpopulation shifts due to the death of differentiated cells. When treatment was discontinued after 15 d, the morphological changes induced by NGF were reversed within 2-3 d, while those induced by IFN  NGF were present up to 4 wk post-treatment. Small, neuroblastic colonies were observed throughout the treatment period and within 4-6 wk after the cessation of treatment this cell-type fully reconstituted the cultures suggesting the presence of a stem cell. Our results indicate that treatment with -IFN  NGF can regulate growth and induce, either stem cells or progenitor neuronal, Schwann and melanocyte subpopulations in the SH-SY5Y cell line to irreversibly differentiate. 
4295250|We describe procedures for isolating and culturing airway epithelial cells from chronically infected human lungs. Experience in our laboratory demonstrated the need to balance pathogen eradication against antibiotic toxicity to epithelial cells. To provide a logical basis for antibiotic selection and dose, we systematically analyzed the cytotoxicity of antibiotics useful against typical pathogens. Alone, colistin, ciprofloxacin, doxycycline, and tobramycin were moderately toxic at concentrations close to those used in cell culture, whereas amphotericin, ceftazidime, chloramphenicol, imipenem, meropenem, piperacillin, sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, and vancomycin were nontoxic even at concentrations many times the antimicrobial level. Epithelial cytotoxicity of combined antibiotics was additive, with no evidence of competition or synergism. Antibiotics had little effect on initial cell attachment and did not acutely lyse cells, but inhibited subsequent growth. Interestingly, cytotoxicity decreased markedly with increasing epithelial cell density. Cystic fibrosis (CF) and non-CF epithelial cells showed no differences in sensitivity to the antibiotics tested and initial exposure to antibiotics did not affect the electrophysiologic properties of resistance or short circuit current in well-differentiated cells. Tailored combinations of antibiotics at appropriate doses killed even multidrug-resistant bacteria. Thus, epithelial cells can usually be cultured from chronically infected CF airways.
23353420|A new cell line named RIRI-PaDe, developed from the neonate larvae of Papilio demoleus Linnaeus, was established in modified Grace's medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum. The cell line was incubated at 28C and consisted of attached round and short spindle-like cells. The population doubling time was 55 h. The chromosome numbers varied widely from 24 to 136 with a mode of 59 at the 71st passage. Comparison of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene of the cell line and neonate larvae confirmed that the cell line was of P. demoleus origin. This cell line was susceptible to the Autographa californica multicapsid nucleopolyhedrovirus and Apocheima cinerarius nucleopolyhedrovirus.
4294446|Changes in Hox1.6 and c-jun gene expression were examined upon F9 cell differentiation that was induced by three independent methods: a drug treatment with retinoic acid (RA), that with sodium butyrate (NaB), and a genetic approach using the ts mutant. To obtain further information on the mechanism of teratocarcinoma cell differentiation we have examined the kinetics of the induction of Hox1.6 and c-jun mRNA whose gene products have been demonstrated to have specific roles in gene regulation. Expression of Hox1.6 mRNA was induced more rapidly than c-jun mRNA by all the above three inducing methods. Furthermore, protein synthesis was not required for the induction of Hox1.6 mRNA as well as of c-jun mRNA synthesis in all three methods. The data suggested that the transcriptional increase in the Hox1.6 mRNA was a primary response and could play an important role in F9 cell differentiation.
4294240|The characterization of a recently established system for the short-term culture of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) liver cells in chemically defined medium has been extended to studies on the metabolic competence of the cells and the characterization of their response to hormones. Three areas of metabolism have been addressed: a) the utilization of the exogenously added substrates fructose, lactate, glucose, dihydroxyacetone, and glycerol for glucose and lactate formation; b) the effects of the pancreatic hormones insulin and glucagon on cellular glucose formation, lactate formation, and fatty acid synthesis; and c) the effects of insulin and dexamethasone on the estradiol-dependent production of vitellogenin. Incubation of trout liver cells with fructose, lactate, glucose, dihydroxyacetone, or glycerol resulted in enhanced rates of cellular glucose and lactate production. Substrate-induced effects usually were more clearly expressed after extended (20 h) than after acute (5 h) culture periods. Addition of the hormones insulin or glucagon caused dose-dependent alterations in the flux of substrates to glucose and lactate. Rates of de novo synthesis of fatty acids from
4294490|We have developed a culture system for early bovine embryos in serum-free media conditioned by oviduct cell monolayers. A gentle mechanical procedure for oviduct cell isolation has been applied for this purpose avoiding the use of proteolytic enzymes. The aim of the present study was to identify the cell types present in the monolayers and to examine their fate in primary culture in serum-free or in serum-containing media by means of electronmicroscopical, immunocytochemical, and biochemical analyses. The cell dissociation procedure yielded two cell populations: ciliary cells and secretory cells that gradually dedifferentiate during culture. These cells formed a confluent monolayer after 6 d of culture in Tissue Culture Medium 199 medium supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum. Confluent cells displayed a typical epithelial cell morphology as assessed by phase contrast and electron microscopy and all the cells contained cytokeratin filaments as determined by immunocytochemistry. The overall histoarchitecture of the monolayer was preserved after washing and further culture for 7 d in serum-free medium. However, some degenerative signs indicate that the serum-free culture should not be extended for more than 7 d. Confluent oviduct cells also maintained their metabolic and protein secretory activity when deprived of serum. Total protein content in the culture supernatant linearly increased as a function of time and numerous peaks were detected after separation of proteins by high performance ion exchange chromatography. Protein elution patterns were reproducible and most of the proteins present in the culture medium were neosynthesized as determined by the incorporation of radiolabeled amino acids into nondialyzable proteins.
4294836|An extensive in vitro study with cultured cells was conducted to test the basal cytotoxicity theory. This theory suggests that most chemical injury, at least in vitro, is a manifestation of one or more insults to the basic cellular structures and functions common to mammalian cells. This accounts for the similarity of results in multilaboratory studies. Human fetal lung fibroblasts (HFL1), and human skin fibroblasts (WS1, Detroit551) were studied in culture to evaluate their potential to screen for cytotoxicity. Confluent monolayers were incubated in the absence or presence of increasing concentrations of test chemicals for 24 h, and the MTT assay was used to assess toxicity. Inhibitory concentrations were extrapolated from concentration-effect curves after linear regression analysis. Twenty-nine chemicals were tested with each cell line and the cytotoxicity data compared to rodent and human lethal concentrations. The data suggest that the experimental IC
20616587|Our laboratory has previously developed scaffoldless engineered bone constructs (EBC). Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) were harvested from rat femur and cultured in medium that induced osteogenic differentiation. After reaching confluence, the monolayer of cells contracted around two constraint points forming a cylinder. EBCs were placed in small diameter (0.59050.0625 in.) or large diameter (0.59050.125 in.) silicone tubing and implanted intramuscularly in the hind limb of a rat. Bone mineral content (BMC) of the EBC was analyzed before implantation and at 1 and 2 mo following implantation and compared to that of native femur bone at different stages of development. Negligible BMC was observed in E-20 femur or EBCs prior to implantation. One-month implantation in both small and large tubing increased BMC in the EBC. BMC of EBC from large tubing was greater than in 14 d rat neonatal femurs, but was 2% and 3% of BMC content in adult bone after 1 and 2 mo of implantation, respectively. Alizarine Red and osteopontin staining of the EBCs before and after implantation confirmed increased bone mineralization in the implanted EBCs. Implanted EBCs also had extensive vascularization. Our data suggest that BMSC can be successfully used for the generation of scaffoldless EBC, and this model can be potentially used for the generation of autologous bone transplants in humans.
20172232|The interaction of autologous human fetal neurons with epidermal cells was studied by culturing fetal dorsal root ganglia (DRG) in the center of a dual chamber system with epidermal explants in the outer chamber. The two chambers were separated by two concentric stainless steel annular rings adherent to the substratum by silicon grease and agarose. Axons from the DRG penetrated the agarose barrier, growing into the exterior chamber by 10 d in vitro (DIV) and extended past sparse peripheral fibroblasts to interact specifically with epidermal cells by 12 to 16 DIV. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed single or multiple neuronal fascicles terminating on epidermal cells with spatular, veillike or bulbous axon termini. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) showed fine axonal termini between epidermal cells, separated by an intercellular gap. The specificity of axonal targeting for epidermal cells rather than fibroblasts was also demonstrated by infecting the DRG with Herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1). Specific anterograde transport of HSV-1 along axons to keratin-expressing epidermal cells was demonstrated by immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase staining using monoclonal antibodies to viral glycoprotein D. This model allows the study of the mechanism of the specific interactions between neurons and epidermal cells analogous to those in fetal development and after cutaneous nerve regeneration.
4294924|To establish an immortalized lacrimal gland epithelial cell line, the orbital lacrimal glands of normal New Zealand White rabbits were multiply injected with an immortalizing amphotropic retroviral vector (LXSN16E6E7) containing the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 16. Lacrimal glands were removed after 2 d and acinar epithelial cells were isolated and cultured on Matrigel-coated
4294104|Immunosurgery is a useful technique for the isolation of inner cell masses from murine blastocysts. Conventionally, rabbit antisera made ad hoc against murine splenic or fetal cells or fibroblasts have been used as antibody sources. We investigated the feasibility of using commercially available rabbit antiserum to murine erythrocytes (anti-RBC) and compared it with rabbit antiserum generated ad hoc to murine L-cells (anti-L-cell). Our results indicate that anti-RBC is at least as effective as anti-L-cell serum for the immunosurgical isolation of inner cell masses, which became either mini-blastocysts (later forming outgrowths) or embryoid bodies (undergoing ectoderm-endodermlike differentiation within 48 h). Because anti-RBC is commercially available, the technical modification described herein increases the accessibility of the immunosurgical protocol for the isolation of murine inner cell masses.
20869596|A sheep kidney-derived cell line, FLK-N3, was successfully established after serial (>100) passages. Persistent infection of this cell line with viruses and mycoplasma was not detected. The cells grew well and showed susceptibility to a wide variety of viruses derived from ovine, bovine, and porcine species, including orf virus, maedi visna virus, bovine herpesvirus 1, bovine parainfluenza virus 3, bovine viral diarrhea viruses 1 and 2, bovine coronavirus, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, bovine enterovirus, suid herpesvirus 1, and porcine enterovirus. These results suggest that the FLK-N3 cell line could be useful for isolation and propagation of viruses that affect cloven-hoofed animals.
4294460| We developed methodology to isolate and culture rat alveolar Type II cells under conditions that preserved their proliferative capacity, and applied lipofection to introduce an immortalizing gene into the cells. Briefly, the alveolar Type II cells were isolated from male F344 rats using airway perfusion with a pronase solution followed by incubation for 30 min at 37 C. Cells obtained by pronase digestion were predominantly epithelial in morphology and were positive for Papanicolaou and alkaline phosphatase staining. These cells could be maintained on an extracellular matrix of fibronectin and Type IV collagen in a low serum, insulin-supplemented Ham's F12 growth medium for four to five passages. Rat alveolar epithelial cells obtained by this method were transformed with the SV40-T antigen gene and two immortalized cell lines (RLE-6T and RLE-6TN) were obtained. The RLE-6T line exhibits positive nuclear immunostaining for the SV40-T antigen and the RLE-6TN line does not. PCR analysis of genomic DNA from the RLE-6T and RLE-6TN cells demonstrated the T-antigen gene was present only in the RLE-6T line indicating the RLE-6TN line is likely derived from a spontaneous transformant. After more than 50 population doublings, the RLE-6T cells stained positive for cytokeratin, possessed alkaline phosphatase activity, and contained lipid-containing inclusion bodies (phosphine 3R staining); all characteristics of alveolar Type II cells. The RLE-6TN cells exhibited similar characteristics except they did not express alkaline phosphatase activity. Early passage RLE-6T and 6TN cells showed a near diploid chromosome number. However, at later passages the 6T cells became polyploid, while the 6TN genotype remained stable. The RLE-6T and 6TN cells were not tumorigenic in nude mice. The cell isolation methods reported and the novel cell lines produced represent potentially useful tools to study the role of pulmonary epithelial cells in neoplastic and nonneoplastic lung disease. 
23481755|This study was to investigate the proliferation and differentiation of mouse corneal epithelial progenitor cell in hypoxic airlift culture. Mouse corneal epithelial progenitor cell line progenitor cells were cultured under airlift with normoxic and hypoxic conditions for various durations up to 2 wk. Under normoxic conditions when exposed to air, the hyperproliferation and abnormal epidermal-like differentiation of mouse corneal epithelium was induced, whereas when exposed to air under hypoxic conditions, although we observed augmented proliferation, the abnormal differentiation was inhibited. The mechanism by which hypoxia prevents abnormal differentiation may involve downregulation of Wnt signaling pathways, which were inhibited in cells cultured with hypoxic airlift technique. In conclusion, hypoxia can prevent abnormal differentiation while enhancing the proliferation of corneal epithelial cells by blocking Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway.
4295680|The differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells can be induced in vitro after leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) withdrawal and further enhanced by the formation of "embryoid body" (EB) aggregates. This strategy is being used in order to optimize differentiation protocols that would result in functional cells for experimental cell replacement therapies. However, this study presents the possibility for residual undifferentiated cells to survive after standard in vitro procedures. Mouse ES cells were stably transfected with the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), under the control of the Oct4 promoter, a transcription factor that is expressed in undifferentiated ES cells but down-regulated on differentiation. Residual fluorescent cells were isolated from EBs that were cultured in standard conditions in absence of LIF. These residual cells displayed recurrent gain of chromosomes 8 and 9. Residual fluorescent cells, further expanded in absence of LIF and cultured as EBs, still displayed a significant Oct4 expression in comparison with parental transfected ES cells. Consequently, these residual cells have an intrinsic resistance to differentiate. The behavior of these cells, observed in vitro, can be overcome in vivo, as they were able to induce teratomas in subcutaneously injected nude mice. Residual undifferentiated cells displayed slight levels of VASA and DAZL expression. These results demonstrate that mouse ES cells cultured in vitro, in standard conditions, can spontaneously acquire recurrent karyotypical changes that may promote an undifferentiated stage, being selected in standard culture conditions in vitro.
4294279|Lymphatic endothelial cells grown long term in culture form lymphatic capillarylike tubes. Examination by light and transmission electron microscopy showed that these structures were closed loops composed of one to several cells connected by intercellular junction to form a luminal space. This first demonstration of lymphangiogenesis in confluent monolayer cultures of lymphatic endothelial cells (a) showed that collagen type I accelerated lymphatic capillary tube formation, whereas fibronectin and matrigel had no effect; b) provided a model to study lymphatic endothelial cell function and differentiation; and c) offered a possibility to distinguish differences between the process of lymphangiogenesis and angiogenesis by testing various factors and conditions that effect endothelial cell behavior.
4294895|The net amount of collagen produced and deposited by fibroblasts in cell culture is determined by the rate of collagen synthesis as well as the rate of collagen degradation. Although collagen synthesis can be analyzed by several techniques, it is more difficult to measure collagen degradation. Breakdown of collagen depends upon the activity of a family of structurally and catalytically related mammalian enzymes termed matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Interstitial collagenase (MMP1) initiates the cleavage of fibrillar collagen, whereas gelatinases (MMP2 and MMP9) digest the denatured collagen fragments. A method has been developed to quantitate the activity of collagenase (MMP1) and gelatinase (MMP9) in conditioned medium from fibroblast cell cultures. The assay, which uses the fluorogenic substrate Dnp-Pro-Cha-Gly-Cys(Me)-His-Ala-Lys(Nma)NH
40205861|Assessment of a new chemical entity for cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme induction at an early stage in discovery is crucial to prevent potential drug-drug interactions. CYP3A, the most abundant CYP isoform in the liver, metabolizes approximately 50% of drugs currently on the market and is also a highly inducible enzyme. The use of both rat and human hepatocyte culture for the prediction of in vivo CYP3A induction has become refined and validated and is considered a standard in vitro model. The current evaluation of CYP3A enzyme induction involves the use of substrates requiring subsequent analysis of metabolites by high-performance liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, which adds considerable time and cost. In the present study, we describe the use of a novel luminogenic substrate, luciferin-6'-pentafluoro-benzyl ether (PFBE), which allows for a fast and selective measurement of CYP3A enzyme induction in cultured rat hepatocytes. The extent of induction was evaluated using cells treated for 3 d with the prototypical inducers, dexamethasone, phenobarbital, and pregnenolone 16 alpha-carbonitrile (PCN). Enzyme activity was measured in the treated cells either by the depentafluorobenzylation of luciferin-PFBE or the testosterone 6-(-hydroxylation. Using both methods, dexamethasone and PCN-treated cells exhibited strong CYP3A activity, whereas phenobarbital treatment resulted in a weak response. The fold induction varied between both methods, but this variability can be controlled by normalizing data from each treatment to a positive control. The results indicate that luciferin-PFBE is an attractive alternative to the use of conventional substrate, testosterone, providing a sensitive, robust, and rapid method compatible with the multiwell plate format for the assessment of CYP3A induction.
40802401|In this study, we examined the phenotypic characteristics of human umbilical cord blood-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (UCB-derived MSCs) differentiated along an oligodendrocyte pathway. We induced human UCB-derived MSCs to form floating neurospheres, and these neurospheres were then induced to differentiate into oligodendrocyte progenitor-like cells using multiple induction factors. Differentiated UCB-derived MSCs showed morphologic characteristics of an oligodendrocyte phenotype. The expression of cell surface markers characteristic of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells or oligodendrocytes was determined by immunocytochemical staining. These results suggest that human UCBderived MSCs can be induced to differentiate into cells with an oligodendrocyte phenotype and that these cells may have potential in the fixture cellular therapy of central neurological disorders.
41408881|The procedure of preadipocyte differentiation to mature adipocytes is controlled by various transcription factors; these factors activate and regulate the fat formation genes through a series of complex steps. To investigate the time line of gene expression of several potential genes and make a observation, we isolated preadipocytes from subcutaneous adipose tissue of 2-d old piglets by collagenase digestion approach and extracted total RNA from the cells, then measured mRNA expression level of AdipoRl, IGFBP3, PPAR, PPARGC1, FASN, FABP4, and C/EBP at 10 different time points via real-time quantitative RTPCR method. The results revealed that the expression of AdipoRl and IGFBP3 was both upregulated to the maximum at 8 h, the expression of PPAR, PPARGC1, FASN, FABP4, and C/EBP was all upregulated to the maximum at 9 d, and these genes were in significant correlation. We present tentatively conclusions that, the gene expression of AdipoRl and IGFBP3 is upregulated in the early stage of preadipocyte differentiation, and the gene PPAR, PPARGC1, FASN, FABP4, and C/EBP reached a high expression in the later period. The expression variation tendency of these genes suggests that they may influence on each other in a sort of way. However, the specific mechanism that AdipoRl, IGFBP3, PPAR, and the related genes how to cooperate or interact with each other still remains to be further explored.
4295179|Cell culture models that mimic long-term exposure to microgravity provide important insights into the cellular biological adaptations of human skeletal muscle to long-term residence in space. We developed insert scaffolding for the NASA-designed rotating cell culture system (RCCS) in order to study the effects of time-averaged microgravity on the proliferation and differentiation of anchorage-dependent skeletal muscle myocytes. We hypothesized that prolonged microgravity exposure would result in the retardation of myocyte differentiation. Microgravity exposure in the RCCS resulted in increased cellular proliferation. Despite shifting to media conditions promoting cellular differentiation, 5 d later, there was an increase in cell number of approximately 62%, increases in total cellular protein (52%), and cellular proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) content (2.7 times control), and only a modest (insignificant) decrease (10%) in sarcomeric myosin protein expression. We grew cells in an inverted orientation on membrane inserts. Changes in cell number and PCNA content were the converse to those observed for cells in the RCCS. We also grew cells on inserts at unit gravity with constant mixing. Mixing accounted for part, but not all, of the effects of microgravity exposure on skeletal muscle cell cultures (53% of the RCCS effect on PCNA at 4-6 d). In summary, the mechanical effects of simulated microgravity exposure in the RCCS resulted in the maintenance of cellular proliferation, manifested as increases in cell number and expression of PCNA relative to control conditions, with only a modest reciprocal inhibition of cellular differentiation. Therefore, this model provides conditions wherein cellular differentiation and proliferation appear to be uncoupled.
4295415| Rat hepatocytes were cultured initially as spheroids on culture plates and then transferred into a rotating wall vessel (high-aspect ratio vessel [HARV]) for further culturing. Morphological evaluation based on electron microscopy showed that hepatocyte spheroids cultured for 30 d in the HARV had a compact structure with tight cell-cell junctions, numerous smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum, intact mitochondria, and bile canaliculi lined with microvilli. The viability and differentiated properties of the hepatocytes cultured in the HARV were further substantiated by the presence of both phase I oxidation and phase II conjugation drug-metabolizing enzyme activities, as well as albumin synthesis. Homogenates prepared from freshly isolated hepatocytes and hepatocytes cultured in the HARV showed similar cytochrome P450 2B activities measured as pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylase and testosterone 16-hydroxylase. Further, intact hepatocytes cultured in the HARV were found to metabolize chlorzoxazone to 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone; dextromethorphan to dextrorphan, 3-methoxymorphinan, and 3-hydroxymorphinan; midazolam to 1-hydroxymidazolam and 4-hydroxymidazolam; and 7-hydroxycoumarin to its glucuronide and sulfate conjugates. In conclusion, we found that hepatocyte spheroids could be cultured in a HARV to retain cellular and physiological properties of the intact liver, including drug-metabolizing enzyme activities, plasma protein production, and long-term (1 mo) maintenance of viability and cellular function. 
4295452|Constitutively high proliferation, loss of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase (PKA)-regulated proliferation, and half-normal cAMP levels were observed previously in principal cells from the
40205921|Serum of animal origin, like foetal calf serum (FCS), is used as a standard supplement for media to cultivate mammalian cells, mostly due to its growth-supporting properties. Unfortunately, animal serum has many disadvantages like the risk of contamination, high costs, fluctuations within the composition of different batches and the high amount of foetuses, which have to be harvested. To avoid all this, it is necessary to provide alternatives, which combine as many positive properties of the animal serum as possible but do not influence the cellular metabolism negatively. Today, several serum-free complete media as well as serum substitutes are commercially available. In the present study, a serum substitute, a serum-reduced medium and a serum-free medium were evaluated concerning their influence on the metabolism on the colon cancer cell line SW-480. The evaluation of morphological changes of the cells was done by microscopic analysis whereas differences in the volatile metabolome were analysed by solid phase micro extraction (SPME) followed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS).
40602778|In vitro culture systems are valuable tools for investigating reproductive mechanisms in the testis. Here, we report the use of the precision-cut in vitro system using equine testicular slices. Testes were collected from immature light breed stallions (n= 3) and cut into slices (mean slice weight= 13.85  0.20 mg; mean slice thickness= 515.00  2.33 m using the precision-cut tissue-slicing method. Four tissue slices were placed on a grid floating on medium in individual vials. After a 1-h preincubation, they were exposed to medium containing ovine luteinizing hormone (oLH) at concentrations of 0, 5, 50, and 500 ng/m1 for 6 h at 32C. Viability of the tissue was maintained based on histological integrity and lack of appreciable lactate dehydrogenase in the medium. The production and release of testosterone (T) and estradiol-17 (E2) into the medium was measured following in vitro culture. The addition of oLH increased T and E2 at least 400% and 120%, respectively, over the 0-ng oLH control cultures. Testicular gene expression was assessed with in situ hybridization methodology for steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR protein), phosphodiesterase 3B (PDE3B), and outer dense fiber of sperm tails 2 (ODF2) mRNAs. In situ hybridization revealed an oLH concentration-dependent increase in the concentration of StAR protein mRNA in Leydig cells. No differences were observed for the expression of PDE3B or ODF2 genes in seminiferous tubules among treatment groups as expected. These results demonstrate the value of in vitro culture of the precision-cut tissue slices for studies of the regulation of steroidogenesis and gene expression in the stallion testes.
23353400|The aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of the ethanol extract of the red algae Chondracanthus tenellus (Harvey) Hommersand (CTE) on cultured human keratinocyte cell line. The cellular protection conferred by CTE was evidenced by the ability of the extract to absorb ultraviolet B (UVB; 280320 nm) and to scavenge the radical 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl, as well as intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), induced by either hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) or UVB radiation. In addition, both superoxide anion generated by the xanthine/xanthine oxidase system and hydroxyl radical generated by the Fenton reaction (FeSO 4 +H 2 O 2 ) were scavenged by CTE, as confirmed using electron spin resonance spectrometry. In the human keratinocyte cell line, CTE decreased the degree of injury resulting from UVB-induced oxidative stress to lipids, proteins, and DNA. CTE-treated cells also showed a reduction in UVB-induced apoptosis, as exemplified by fewer apoptotic bodies and less DNA fragmentation. Taken together, these results suggest that CTE confers protection on the human keratinocyte cell line against UVB-induced oxidative stress by absorbing UVB ray and scavenging ROS, thereby reducing injury to cellular constituents.
40928168|The role of HOM/C homeobox genes on rat embryonic lung branching morphogenesis was investigated using the lung bud expiant culture system in an air/liquid interface. Knock down of homeobox b3 and b4 expression by antisense oligonucleotide treatment repressed airway branch formation, while antisense oligonucleotide against homeobox a3 showed no effect. Addition of antisense Hoxb3 oligonucleotide resulted in upregulation of collagen type III mRNA and fibroblast growth factor 10 mRNA, while that of the T-box regulatory factor-4 was decreased. Consequently, expression of Clara cell-specific secretory protein was decreased. These results suggest a critical role for homeobox b3 and b4 genes in lung airway branching morphogenesis.
40663813|Human embryonic stem cells (HESCs) carrying specific mutations potentially provide a valuable tool for studying genetic disorders in humans. One preferable approach for obtaining these cell lines is by deriving them from affected preimplantation genetically diagnosed embryos. These unique cells are especially important for modeling human genetic disorders for which there are no adequate research models. They can be further used to gain new insights into developmentally regulated events that occur during human embryo development and that are responsible for the manifestation of genetically inherited disorders. They also have great value for the exploration of new therapeutic protocols, including gene-therapy-based treatments and disease-oriented drug screening and discovery.Here, we report the establishment of 15 different mutant human embryonic stem cell lines derived from genetically affected embryos, all donated by couples undergoing preimplantation genetic diagnosis in our in vitro fertilization unit. For further information regarding access to HESC lines from our repository, for research purposes, please email dalitb@tasmc.health.gov.il.
4295298|A mineralizing rat dental pulp cell subclone, termed M2H4, was selected from single-cell cloning of the rat dental pulp cell line RPC-C2A by screening confluent single-cell cultures for their ability to undergo mineralization. To induce mineralization, confluent single-cell cultures were treated for 8 d with ascorbic acid followed by the addition of inorganic phosphate to a final concentration of 4 mM for an additional 3 d. Confluent M2H4 subclones were shown by immunofluorescence and electron microscopy to form collagen type I fibrils. Furthermore, using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, this subclone was found to be capable of expressing dentin sialoprotein-phosphophoryn (DSP-PP) transcripts, an odontoblast-specific marker. Thus, this newly identified mineralizing rat M2H4 subclone possesses odontoblast-like characteristics and can serve as an in vitro model for examining the role of DSP and PP in the formation of mineralized dentin.
40981259|The role of cell authentication in biomedical science has received considerable attention, especially within the past decade. This quality control attribute is now beginning to be given the emphasis it deserves by granting agencies and by scientific journals. Short tandem repeat (STR) profiling, one of a few DNA profiling technologies now available, is being proposed for routine identification (authentication) of human cell lines, stem cells, and tissues. The advantage of this technique over methods such as isoenzyme analysis, karyotyping, human leukocyte antigen typing, etc., is that STR profiling can establish identity to the individual level, provided that the appropriate number and types of loci are evaluated. To best employ this technology, a standardized protocol and a data-driven, qualitycontrolled, and publically searchable database will be necessary. This public STR database (currently under development) will enable investigators to rapidly authenticate human-based cultures to the individual from whom the cells were sourced. Use of similar approaches for non-human animal cells will require developing other suitable loci sets. While implementing STR analysis on a more routine basis should significantly reduce the frequency of cell misidentification, additional technologies may be needed as part of an overall authentication paradigm. For instance, isoenzyme analysis, PCR-based DNA amplification, and sequence-based barcoding methods enable rapid confirmation of a cell line's species of origin while screening against cross-contaminations, especially when the cells present are not recognized by the species-specific STR method. Karyotyping may also be needed as a supporting tool during establishment of an STR database. Finally, good cell culture practices must always remain a major component of any effort to reduce the frequency of cell misidentification.
4295302|cAMP regulatory element-binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CBP) and its functional homolog, the adenovirus ElA-associated 300-kDa protein (p300) are nuclear coactivators and histone acetyltransferases that integrate signals from disparate pathways by bridging specific transcription factors to the basal transcription apparatus. Their role in patterning and development was suggested by studies in mice in which CBP and p300 expression was disrupted and by the human Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, which is associated with mutations of CBP. The cAMP signal transduction pathway plays a critical role during development of the palate. The linkage between cAMP and expression of specific genes is mediated via activation of trans-acting deoxyribonucleic acid-binding proteins such as the nuclear CREB. For genes regulated by CBP- or p300-containing transcriptional complexes, rates of transcription will depend in part on cellular levels and distribution of CBP/p300. We have thus determined the temporal and spatial expression of CBP and p300 in murine embryonic palatal tissue. Both CBP and p300 proteins and messenger ribonucleic acids are expressed in palatal tissue on each d of palate development (days 12-14 of gestation), as measured by Western blotting and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. Expression of both CBP and p300 was greatest on day 12 of gestation, suggesting that these transcriptional coactivators are developmentally regulated. Immunohistochemical analysis of CBP and p300 expression in the murine embryonic craniofacial region revealed a ubiquitous distribution for both proteins. These studies lay the groundwork for further investigations into the role of CBP and p300 in cellular signaling during craniofacial development.
4295016|Vascular smooth muscle cells produce and respond to interleukin-1, a cytokine which modifies inflammation-associated vascular activities including the synthesis of extracellular matrix proteins. We have established vascular smooth muscle cells culture conditions in which heparin, in the presence of endothelial cell growth supplement, promotes cell proliferation and inhibits interleukin-1 and matrix protein expression. To test whether interleukin-1 mediates growth and matrix modulation by heparin/endothelial cell growth supplement, vascular smooth muscle cells were transfected with an Epstein-Barr virus-derived expression vector designed to express interleukin-1 antisense transcripts. RNase protection and ELISA assays demonstrated a complete block of interleukin-1 transcription and protein synthesis. Northern blot analysis also showed that interleukin-1 antisense decreased the expression of matrix genes such as type I collagen, fibronectin, and decorin similar to downregulation after heparin/endothelial cell growth supplement treatment. In contrast, the expression of versican was not affected, indicating a selective suppression of matrix proteins. In addition, interleukin-1 antisense significantly prolonged the life span of vascular smooth muscle cells in culture. Our data suggest that heparin/endothelial cell growth supplement induces matrix remodeling and controls growth and senescence of vascular smooth muscle cells through down-regulation of interleukin-1.
4294751|A primary culture from rat renal IMCD cells was established to investigate the permeability characteristics of the luminal and contraluminal plasma membranes of the papillary collecting duct in vitro. Freshly isolated IMCD cells were grown on filters in a special "epithelial cell" medium. Confluency was proved with an epithelial volt/ohm meter. After 7 d of culture the transepithelial resistance reached more than
23481712|Somatic stem/progenitor cells are known to be present in most adult tissues. However, those in the lung have limited abilities for tissue regeneration after serious damage as a result of chronic disease. Therefore, regenerative medicine using exogenous stem cells has been suggested for the treatment of progressive lung diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pulmonary fibrosis. Embryonic stem (ES) cells and induced pluripotent stem cells, with their potent differentiation abilities, are promising sources for the generation of various tissue cells. In this study, we investigated the effects of various differentiation-inducing growth factors on the differentiation of lung cells from ES cells in vitro. Several factors, including activin, nodal, and noggin, significantly promoted the induction of Nkx2.1-positive lung progenitor cells when cells were cultured as embryoid bodies. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) 4 signaling controls the lineage commitment of lung cells along the proximaldistal axis. BMP4 promotes the induction of distal cell lineages of alveolar bud, such as Clara cells and mucus-producing goblet cells. These results suggest that several developmentally essential factors, including nodal/activin and BMP signaling, are important in the control of the differentiation of lung epithelial cells from mouse ES cells in vitro.
20172187| An hepatocyte culture system was developed for potential use in toxicological studies in vitro. Rat hepatocytes were isolated by two-step collagenase perfusion and cultured on Vitrogen-coated Permanox dishes in a modified Chee's medium containing 1 M dexamethasone and 1% dimethylsulfoxide. The cells remained highly viable for at least 10 d as determined by lactate dehydrogenase release and total protein levels. Albumin secretion into the medium, as a measure of differentiated function, was maintained at elevated levels over the course of 10 d in culture. A number of CYP activities were determined by the analysis of testosterone metabolism in freeze-thawed cells, diazepam metabolism in live cells, and specific assays for CYP 1A1/2, 2B1/2, 2E1, and 3A. Results of these assays indicated that a wide range of CYP isozymes were maintained, some activities were enhanced under the conditions of culture and some activities were inducible. Activities of the phase II enzymes, glutathione S-transferase and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, and glutathione levels were also maintained in the cultured hepatocytes for at least 6 d. These results strongly support the use of this hepatocyte culture system for in vitro toxicological studies. 
40928181|It has been reported that 50-60 Hz magnetic fields (MF) with flux densities ranging from microtesla to millitesla are able to induce heat shock factor or heat shock proteins in various cells. In this study, we investigated the effect of 60 Hz sinusoidal MF at 8 and 80 T on the expression of the luciferase gene contained in a plasmid labeled as electromagnetic field-plasmid (pEMF). This gene construct contains the specific sequences previously described for the induction of hsp70 expression by MF, as well as the reporter for the luciferase gene. The pEMF vector was transfected into INER-37 and RMA E7 cell lines that were later exposed to either MF or thermal shock (TS). Cells that received the MF or TS treatments and their controls were processed according to the luciferase assay system for evaluate luciferase activity. An increased luciferase gene expression was observed in INER-37 cells exposed to MF and TS compared with controls (p<0.05), but MF exposure had no effect on the RMA E7 cell line.
4295495|A continuous cell line was obtained from the culture of embryonic cells of the cupreous chafer, Anomala cuprea Hope. The cells showed substrate-dependent growth and formed loose networks. Population doubling time was about 4.5 d. The mode of chromosome number was about 32 (4n). The cell line was designated FRI-AnCu-35.
4294228|Fructose strongly stimulates the growth of normal diploid human skin fibroblasts (SFs) and induces marked changes in their morphology and lipid accumulation. This mitogenic effect occurs despite very low fructose consumption and depends on the presence of glutamine. The cell kinetics of cultured fructose-fed human skin fibroblasts were different from those fed on glucose: in the presence of fructose a high proliferative index persisted at Day 14 of culture and the duration of the total cell cycle and of the G1 + 1/2 M and S phases was slightly shorter. The mitogenic effect of fructose on SF was largest in the presence of human serum: it was small or undetectable when fibroblasts were cultured in media supplemented with dialyzed human serum, fetal bovine serum, or serum substitutes. This suggests that serum growth factor(s) mediate the mitogenic effect of fructose. Only normal diploid human cells seem to be sensitive to this mitogenic effect of fructose: the long-term growth of normal human liver cells on fructose was slightly better or similar to that on glucose. In contrast, fructose could only support limited growth of hamster fibroblastic Nil cells and of a transformed human fibroblastic line, which grew better with glucose.
4294570|Rat submandibular salivary gland acinar cells were transfected by CaPO
40928177|Cell misidentification and cross-contamination have plagued biomedical research for as long as cells have been employed as research tools. Examples of misidentified cell lines continue to surface to this day. Efforts to eradicate the problem by raising awareness of the issue and by asking scientists voluntarily to take appropriate actions have not been successful. Unambiguous cell authentication is an essential step in the scientific process and should be an inherent consideration during peer review of papers submitted for publication or during review of grants submitted for funding. In order to facilitate proper identity testing, accurate, reliable, inexpensive, and standardized methods for authentication of cells and cell lines must be made available. To this end, an international team of scientists is, at this time, preparing a consensus standard on the authentication of human cells using short tandem repeat (STR) profiling. This standard, which will be submitted for review and approval as an American National Standard by the American National Standards Institute, will provide investigators guidance on the use of STR profiling for authenticating human cell lines. Such guidance will include methodological detail on the preparation of the DNA sample, the appropriate numbers and types of loci to be evaluated, and the interpretation and quality control of the results. Associated with the standard itself will be the establishment and maintenance of a public STR profile database under the auspices of the National Center for Biotechnology Information. The consensus standard is anticipated to be adopted by granting agencies and scientific journals as appropriate methodology for authenticating human cell lines, stem cells, and tissues.
4294913|The effect of phenolic compounds in foodstuffs on histamine and leukotriene B
41408871|Previous studies have shown that the in ovo injection of equol can markedly improve the water-holding capacity of muscles of broilers chickens at 7 wk of age through promotion of the antioxidant status. We aimed to investigate directly the antioxidant effects of equol on muscle cells in broilers. Muscle cells were separated from leg muscle of embryos on the 11th day of incubation and treated with equol and HO, either alone or together. Cells were pretreated with medium containing 1, 10, or 100 M equol for 1 h prior to the addition of 1 mM HO for a further 1 h. Photomicrographs of cells were obtained. Cell viability, malondialdehyde (MDA) content, and L-lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity in the cell supernatant, as well as intracellular total Superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities were determined. Treatment with 1 mM HO caused serious damage to cells, indicated by comets with no clear head region but a very apparent tail of DNA fragments. Pretreatment with low (1 m) but not high concentrations of equol (10 M) inhibited cell damage, while 100 M equol caused more serious damage than HO alone. Pretreatment with 1 M equol had no effect on cell viability, while pretreatment with 10 and 100 M equol significantly decreased cell viability in a dose-dependent manner. Compared with HO alone, pretreatment with low-dosage equol markedly decreased LDH activity and MDA production in the supernatant, significantly increased intracellular T-SOD activity (P<0.05) and tended to increase intracellular GSH-Px activity (0.05<P<0.1). Pretreatment with high-dosage equol (10 and 100 M) significantly enhanced LDH activity, but had no effect on MDA content, T-SOD or GSH-Px activity induced by HO, except for an obvious increase in GSH-Px activity caused by 10 M equol. These results indicate that equol at low dosage can prevent skeletal muscle cell damage induced by H2O2, while pretreatment with high-dosage equol shows a synergistic effect with HO in inducing cell damage.
4295301|Effects of extracellular matrix proteins and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases-2 (TIMP-2) on bovine inner cell mass (ICM) outgrowth and proteinase production in vitro were determined. Inner cell masses were isolated immunosurgically from day 7 embryos (day 0 = onset of estrus) and cultured for 96 h. In experiment 1, cellular outgrowth and gelatinase production were evaluated for ICM cultured on collagen IV, fibronectin, or laminin. More (P < 0.05) ICM generated cellular outgrowth on fibronectin (71%), compared with collagen IV (0%) or laminin (15%). Inner cell mass and outgrowth areas were greatest (P < 0.05) on fibronectin after 96 h of culture, compared with laminin. Although the incidence of cellular outgrowth on laminin was limited, numbers of cells in outgrowths supported by laminin were similar (P > 0.10) to fibronectin except at 72 h of culture, where more (P < 0.05) cells were in laminin than in fibronectin outgrowths. Gelatinase activity was not detected in conditioned medium. In experiment 2, cellular outgrowth and plasminogen activator production by ICM cultured on fibronectin in medium containing 0 or
4295457|In vitro propagation of osteoblasts in three-dimensional culture has been explored as a means of cell line expansion and tissue engineering purposes. Studies investigating optimal culture conditions are being conducted to produce bone-like material. This study demonstrates the use of collagen microcarrier beads as a substrate for three-dimensional cell culture. We have earlier reported that microcarriers consisting of cross-linked type I collagen support chondrocyte proliferation and synthesis of extracellular matrix. In this study, we investigated the use of collagen microcarriers to propagate human trabecular bone-derived osteoblasts. Aggregation of cell-seeded microcarriers and production of extracellular matrix-like material were observed after 5 d in culture. Expression of extracellular matrix proteins osteocalcin, osteopontin, and type I collagen was confirmed by messenger ribonucleic acid analysis, radioimmunoassay, and Western blot analysis. The efficient recovery of viable cells was achieved by collagenase digestion of the cell-seeded microcarriers. The collagen microcarrier spinner culture system provides an efficient method to amplify large numbers of healthy functional cells that can be subsequently used for further in vitro or transplantation studies.
4294659|The embryonic cell line, GV1, from Manduca sexta was transiently transfected with DNA constructs of the Drosophila hsp70 promoter fused to either a
4294442|Several studies have recently been conducted on cultured skin equivalent (SE), prepared using human keratinocytes seeded on various types of dermal equivalents (DE). We previously showed the advantages of our anchorage method in preventing the severe surface reduction of DE due to fibroblast contractile properties in vitro. A new anchored human SE was established in our laboratory in order to obtain a bioengineered tissue that would possess the appropriate histological and biological properties. In order to compare the effects of different collagen origins on the evolution of SE in vitro, human keratinocytes were seeded on three types of anchored DE. A comparative study was carried out between bovine SE (bSE), human SE (hSE), and human skin equivalent containing additional dermal matrix components (hSE +). Immunohistological analysis showed that hSE and hSE + presented good structural organization, including the deposition of several basement membrane constituents. Higher amounts of transglutaminase, ceramides, and keratin 1 were detected in the epidermal layers of all SE when cultured at the air-liquid interface. However, a 92 kDa gelatinase activity was higher in bovine skin equivalent (bSE) compared to hSE cultures. The use of human collagens comparatively to bovine collagen as SE matricial component delayed the degradation of the dermal layer in culture.
20616574|Ex vivo analysis of signaling pathways operating in tumor tissue is complicated by the three-dimensional structure, in particular by stromaepithelial interactions. Studies performed with pure populations of tumor cells usually do not take into account this issue. One possibility to preserve the tissue architecture is the use of tumor slices. However, diffusion of oxygen and nutrients may become limiting factors, resulting in decreased cell viability and change of tissue morphology, especially after long-term incubation of slices. By using precision cut slices of defined thickness, we were able to establish culture conditions for tumor material obtained from MMTV-neu transgenic mice, which allow the study of the action of cytokines and cytotoxic drugs for up to 24 h. A slice thickness of 160 m was found to be optimal for viability and handling of material. These slices were highly responsive to the action of the cytokine IFN-, as evident form the increase of pY701 STAT1, detected by both immunohistochemistry and western blotting, and by the increase of mRNA levels of the IFN- response genes IRF-1, SOCS-1, and STAT1, analyzed by reverse transcriptasepolymerase chain reaction. Furthermore, induction of apoptosis and increase of DNA damage could be monitored after treatment with IFN- or doxorubicin. The slices were also a convenient source for the establishment of explant cultures of tumor epithelial cells. It is concluded that cultivation of precision-cut tumor slices provides a convenient way for the ex vivo molecular analysis of MMTV-neu tumor tissue under conditions which closely simulate the situation in vivo and can provide an alternative to in vivo experiments.
4294576|Cellular DNA, milk protein content, and protein secretion by bovine mammary explants were compared to cultures of confluent and growing primary bovine mammary secretory cells over 4 d. Explants were obtained at slaughter from eight Holstein cows (
23481781|In vitro cellular proliferation and the ability to undergo multilineage differentiation make bone marrow-derived multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) potentially useful for clinical applications. Several methods have been described to isolate a homogenous bone marrow-derived MSCs population; however, none has been proven most effective, mainly due to their effects on proliferation and differentiation capability of the isolated cells. It is hypothesized that our newly established total cell pooling method may provide a better alternative as compared to the standard isolation method (density gradient centrifugation method). For the total cell pooling method, MSCs were isolated from rabbit bone marrow and were subsequently cultured in the growth medium without further separation as in the standard isolation method. The total cell pooling method was 65 min faster than the standard isolation method in completing cell isolation. Nevertheless, both methods did not differ significantly in the number of primary viable cells and population doubling time in the cultures (p>0.05). The isolated cells from both methods expressed CD29 and CD44 markers, but not CD45 markers. Furthermore, they displayed multilineage differentiation characteristics of chondroblasts, osteoblasts, and adipocytes. In conclusion, both methods provide similar efficiency in the isolation of rabbit bone marrow-derived MSCs; however, the total cell pooling method is technically simpler and more cost effective than the standard isolation method.
41408882|The transcription coactivators p300 and CBP were reported to have indispensable roles in various tissues during the embryonic and fetal stages. Little is known about the activities of these coactivators during the tooth development, so we investigated the temporal expression patterns of p300 and CBP in developing mouse tooth germs. The first molars of fetal BALB/c mice were used to investigate p300 and CBP expression patterns. Immunohistochemistry was performed on a series of sections from embryonic Day (E) 11.5 to E19.5. Laser microdissection and real-time polymerase chain reactions were used to investigate the inner enamel epithelium, stellate reticulum, outer enamel epithelium, and dental papilla between E18.5 and E19.5. P300 had a presence in nearly every region of the tooth germ from E11. 5 to E19.5. However, the expression of CBP was first detected at E12.5 and was relatively lower than the expression of p300 until E18.5. Both p300 and CBP expression levels peaked unexpectedly on Day E18.5. Additionally, the expression of p300 was distinctly lower than CBP at E19.5. In the late bell stage, p300 and CBP mRNA was highly expressed in the stellate reticulum and dental papilla, and there was a relatively low amount of CBP mRNA in the outer enamel epithelia and inner enamel epithelia from E18.5 to E19.5. The temporal patterns of p300 and CBP expression were identified during tooth development. The difference in the spatiotemporal expression of p300 and CBP indicated that they play different roles in tooth development.
40205934|The canine endometrium is frequently affected by severe alterations with unclear pathogenesis and is, therefore, an important subject of research in veterinary gynecology. Therefore, the aim of our study was to establish a three-dimensional in vitro system of the canine endometrium suitable for experimental approaches. For this reason, intact uterine glands were isolated from canine uteri and placed together with stromal cells on culture dishes coated with several extracellular matrix components (collagen I, IV, fibronectin, laminin, gelatin, Matrigel) for up to 4 d to support differentiation of cultured cells. Immunohistochemical detection of laminin on freshly isolated glands showed a partial preservation of the basement membrane--an important factor for epithelial differentiation. Glandular structures were differentiated and polarized during culture time as shown by electron microscopy. Signs of degeneration and loss of cell-cell adhesions as seen occasionally on day 4 depended on the individual dog. In general, morphology was best preserved on Matrigel matrix. No significant changes of cultured glandular explants were observed concerning proliferation and steroid receptor (estrogen, progesterone) expression when compared with the original uterine tissue as assessed by immunohistochemical staining. Lectin histochemistry revealed comparable results for the in vivo endometrial glands and the cultured glandular explants during the whole culture period. This in vitro reconstitution of the canine endometrium is a promising tool to study the cyclic events in the normal endometrium as well as alterations in the affected uterus.
20616578|The slow aggregation assay is generally used to study the functionality of cell-cell adhesion complexes. Single cells are seeded on a semisolid agar substrate in a 96-well plate and the cells spontaneously aggregate. We used HEK FLAG-MOP cells that stably overexpress the mu opioid receptor and the mu-opioid-receptor-selective agonists DAMGO and morphine to study whether other factors than functionality of cell-cell adhesions complexes can contribute to changes in the pattern of slow aggregation on agar. HEK FLAG-MOP cells formed small compact aggregates. In the presence of DAMGO and morphine, larger and fewer aggregates were formed in comparison to the vehicle control. These aggregates were localized in the center of the agar surface, whereas in the vehicle control they were dispersed over the substrate. However, in suspension culture on a Gyrotory shaker, no stimulation of aggregation was observed by DAMGO and morphine, showing that opioids do not affect affinity. A dissociation experiment revealed that HEK FLAG-MOP aggregates formed in the absence or presence of opioids are resistant to de-adhesion. We demonstrated that the larger aggregates are neither the result of cell growth stimulation by DAMGO and morphine. Since manipulations of the substrate such as increasing the agar concentration or mixing agar with agarose induced the same changes in the pattern of slow aggregation as treatment with opioids, we suggest that cell-substrate adhesion may be involved in opioid-stimulated aggregation.
4295531| The objective of this study was to determine the effect of alendronate on the viability of canine osteosarcoma cells and nonneoplastic canine cells. The sample population was composed of canine osteosarcoma tumor cells. Osteosarcoma cells and canine fibroblasts were maintained in culture under standard conditions. The MTT assay for cell viability was performed after 24, 48, and 72 h of incubation with alendronate (0.001 to 1000 M) or no drug (control). Plates were set up so that each concentration and the control had a sample number of 8. The optical density (OD) of each well was measured at 540 nm using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay microplate reader. The percent viability was determined for each concentration and for each incubation time. After 24 h of incubation of POS (parent osteosarcoma) and HMPOS cells with alendronate, there was no significant difference in mean OD at any drug concentration when compared with control samples. A significant concentration- and time-dependent reduction in mean OD of osteosarcoma cells was observed after 48 and 72 h of incubation, with alendronate concentrations ranging from 10 to 1000 M. The lowest percent cell viability observed in treated cells was 35%. Conversely, alendronate did not significantly affect mean OD in fibroblasts, and the lowest percent cell viability observed was 76%. Our data indicate that alendronate may have the potential to inhibit canine osteosarcoma tumor growth. It will be important to determine the clinical relevance of these in vitro findings. If similar findings are observed in vivo, use of alendronate may also be indicated as an adjuvant to existing chemotherapeutic protocols. 
4295710| A continuous cell line, PBLE, was developed from the adherent cells in a culture of peripheral blood leukocytes from the American eel, Anguilla rostrata. The cells were grown in Leibovitz's L-15 basal medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Under normal culture conditions at 18 C, the morphology of PBLE was fibroblast-like. The cultures have been subcultured over 80 times and have been cryopreserved successfully. These cells have a diploid karyotype of 38 chromosomes, survived temperatures from 5 to 36 C, and proliferated at temperatures from 5 C to at least 30 C. PBLE underwent apoptosis in response to gliotoxin, but did not show a respiratory burst. Results suggest that PBLE may have arisen from a circulating mesenchymal stem cell. PBLE was susceptible to Chum salmon reovirus (CSV) and supported CSV replication. Therefore this cell line should be useful in studying eel specific virus-host interactions. 
4295622|Mucous cells of the airway epithelium play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory airway diseases. Therefore, it is of importance to complement in vivo studies that use murine models of allergic asthma with in vitro mechanistic studies that use murine airway epithelial cells, including mucus-containing cells. In this study, we report the development and characterization of an in vitro culture system for primary murine tracheal epithelial (MTE) cells comprising ciliated cells and a substantial number of mucous cells. The increase in mucous cell number over that observed in the native murine airway, or in previously described murine cultures, creates a culture intermediate between the in vivo murine airway epithelium and in vitro cultures of human airway epithelial cells. To establish the usefulness of this culture system for the study of epithelial effects during inflammatory airway diseases, the cells were exposed to interleukin (IL)-13, a central inflammatory mediator in allergic asthma. The IL-13 induced two characteristic epithelial effects, proliferation and modulation of MUC5AC gene expression. There was a concentration dependence of these events, wherein high concentrations of IL-13 (10 ng/ml) induced proliferation, whereas lower concentrations (1 ng/ml) increased MUC5AC mRNA (where mRNA is messenger RNA). Interestingly, these effects occurred in an inverse manner, with the high concentration of IL-13 also provoking a significant decrease in MUC5AC gene expression. Thus, MTE cells cultured in this manner may provide an important link between experimental findings from animal models of allergic asthma and their application to human disease.
4295429|U.S. Senator Christopher Bond joined Dr. Roger Beachy at the podium during the Society for In Vitro Biology's 2001 Congress Plenary Session on Opportunities and Challenges in Plant Biotechnology to Benefit Health and Sustainability, on June 17, 2001, in St. Louis, Missouri. Senator Bond presented an advocate's view regarding the benefits of plant biotechnology development. The strengths of the biotechnology regulatory system were extolled. The opportunities of this new technology to produce more and nutritionally superior food, additional plant-based medicines and vaccines, plant-based renewable sources of energy, and renewable industrial products were outlined. The benefits to the environment by adopting plant biotechnological innovations were discussed. Developing public policy regarding this new technology should be based on facts, science, and reason.
20616597|The Wharton's Jelly (WJ) of the umbilical cord (UC) is an excellent source of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with a range of potential therapeutic applications. The present study was conducted to demonstrate the efficiency of the protocols used by Biogenea-Cellgenea Ltd. for isolation and expansion of WJ MSCs from donors across Greece. Umbilical cord samples were collected from 599 females following childbirth and processed for WJ MSC isolation. Stem cells were expanded using DMEM-based media and cell counts and overall viability figures derived using Trypan blue exclusion. To investigate the application of isolation and expansion protocols on samples received 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 d after their collection, ten fresh samples were processed at these time intervals and evaluated. The cellular yield of most WJ samples was 1.1-5.010 cells at 21-30 d after processing. As culture time increased, cell counts decreased. Statistical analysis of mean cell counts showed a significant reduction after 21 d. Finally, we demonstrate for the first time that it is possible to obtain satisfactory cell numbers from samples processed 1, 2, 3, 4 and even 5 d after collection. We have derived favourable data on the protocols used at Biogenea-Cellgenea Ltd. to isolate and culture MSCs from the WJ. Protocol choice is crucial when handling large numbers of samples on a daily basis and should be made to ensure the best possible outcome.
20616571|A new continuous cell line from ovarian tissue of commercial variety "Kolar Gold" of silkworm, Bombyx mori, was established and designated as DZNU-Bm-12. The tissue was grown in MGM-448 insect cell culture medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and 3% heat-inactivated B. mori hemolymph at 251C. The migration of partially attached small round refractive cells from the fragments of ovarioles began from the beginning of explantation. The cells multiplied partially attached in the primary culture initially, and some of them become freely suspended after 20 passages. The cells were adapted to MGM-448 and TNM-FH media each with 10% FBS and the population doubling time of cell line was about 36 and 24 hr, respectively. The chromosome number was near diploid at initial passages and slightly increased at 176th passage, but a few tetraploids and hexaploids were also observed. DNA profiles using simple sequence repeat loci established the differences between DZNU-Bm-12 and DZNU-Bm-1 and most widely used Bm-5 and BmN cell lines. The cell line was found susceptible to B. mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) with 85-90% of the cells harboring BmNPV and having an average of 3-17 OBs/infected cell. We suggest the usefulness of this cell line in BmNPV-based baculoviral expression system and also for studying in vitro virus replication.
40205810|In the present study, we test the hypothesis that mouse skeletal muscle in culture retains the fundamental properties of excitation-sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca release coupling reported for young-adult (3-4 mo) and senescent (22-23) mice. Dissociated flexor digitorum brevis (FDB) muscles from young-adult and senescent mice were cultured for 7 d in a serum-free medium. During this period, the overall morphology of cultured fibers resembled that exhibited by acutely dissociated cells. In addition, survival analysis revealed that more than 70% of the fibers from both young and old mice remained suitable for electrophysiological studies during this same culture period. Charge movement and intracellular Ca recordings in FDB fibers, voltage clamped in the whole cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique, reproduced the maximal values, and voltage dependence similarly displayed by acutely dissociated cells for both parameters in young-adult and senescent mice. The analysis of the dihydropyridine receptor by immunoblots confirmed, in the culture system, the age-dependent decrease in the expression of this protein. In conclusion, FDB fibers from young-adult and old mice retain the excitation-contraction coupling phenotype during the course of a week in serum-free medium culture.
4294330|A squamous cell carcinoma cell line Nakata proliferated in serum-free culture and was not responsive to exogenous fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF-1). Immunostaining revealed that Nakata cells expressed FGF-1 in their cytoplasms and nuclei. Two molecular mass species of FGF-1 (16 and 18 kDa) were identified in cell extracts by Western blot. These cells also expressed high-affinity FGF-1 binding sites (Kd = 360 pM, 28 000 sites/cell). The results of cross-linking with
40205852|This study modeled, in vitro, the potential effect of conjugative (phase II) metabolism on the cytoprotective capacity of fruit flavonoids against oxidative stress. Flavonoid aglycones were compared with their corresponding isomeric mixtures of glucuronides for their ability to enhance the survival of cultured human Jurkat T and neuroblastoma cells stressed with hydrogen peroxide. Various polyphenolic compounds were tested as substrates in vitro for an ovine liver glucuronyl transferase preparation. Flavonoids and their glycoside derivatives were found to be good substrates, whereas phenolic acids were either poor or nonsubstrates. Five common flavonoids were glucuronidated to prepare mixtures for bioassay testing. Glucuronidation generally weakened the cytoprotective capacities of flavonoids (in the presence of HO), but some compounds were weakened much more than others. The concentration that halved cell death was well below 0.5 M for most flavonoids tested, but glucuronidation increased median effective concentration values to a range of 1-16 M. This compares with the generally accepted physiological range (0.1-10 M) for circulating dietary polyphenolics detected in the body. Therefore, some flavonoids may retain a reduced cytoprotective capacity in vitro, after glucurnonidation, whereas others may be effectively inactivated.
4295392|Silicone is a biomaterial that is widely used in many areas because of its high optical clarity, its durability, and the ease with which it can be cast. However, these advantages are counterbalanced by strong hydrophobicity. Gelatin cross-linking has been used as a hydrophilic coating on many biomaterials but not on silicone rubber. In this study, two gelatin glutaraldehyde (GA) cross-linking methods were used to coat a hydrophilic membrane on silicone rubber. In method I, gelatin and GA were mixed in three different proportions (64:1, 128:1, and 256:1) before coating. In method II, a newly formed 5% gelatin membrane was cross-linked with a 2.5% GA solution. All coatings were hydrophilic, as determined from the measurement of contact angle for a drop of water on the surface. Bovine coronary arterial endothelial cells were shown to grow well on the surface modified by method II at 72 h. In method I, the cells grew well for gelatin-GA proportions of 64:1 and 128:1 at 72 h. No cell attachment on untreated silicone rubber was observed by the third d of seeding. The results indicated that both methods of gelatin-GA cross-linking provided a hydrophilic surface on silicone for endothelial cell adhesion and growth in vitro.
20869579|Aiming to standardize in vitro production of bovine embryos and to obtain supplements to replace serum in culture media, this study evaluated the nuclear maturation kinetics and embryonic development in bovine after in vitro maturation (IVM) and culture (IVC) with several macromolecules (animal origin: bovine serum albumin (BSA), fetal calf serum (FCS); synthetic: polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP), Ficoll, and Knockout) at two oxygen tensions (20% and 5% O). Regarding nuclear kinetics, neither the presence of the expected stage (metaphase I, transition anaphase to telophase, and metaphase II) at each evaluation moment (6, 18, and 24 h after IVM, respectively) nor the accelerated polar body emission (at 18 h after IVM) related developmental competence to blastocyst stage when different supplements were compared. Independently of supplement, cleavage rates at 20% O (61.679.2%) were higher than at 5% O (38.958.7%). At 20% O, higher blastocyst and hatching rates, respectively, were obtained in treatments BSA, FCS, Knockout, and control group (IVM with FCS and IVC with BSA + FCS, 14.023.5% and 6.815.4%) in comparison to PVA, PVP, and Ficoll (0%). The same was observed at 5% O for blastocyst rates with BSA, FCS, Knockout, and control (5.416.8%) and for hatching rates with BSA, FCS, and control (2.011.1%). We can conclude that producing bovine embryos at 20% O during the entire IVP process resulted in higher developmental rates than at 5% O. In addition, while defined macromolecules PVA, PVP, and Ficoll were not suitable for embryonic development, the synthetic serum Knockout was able to replace serum and albumin for IVP in bovine at 20% O.
4294411|Changes in the lipid composition of a cell membrane due to the binding of one cell modulator may affect binding of a second modulator, whether that binding is receptor-mediated (specific) or non-receptor-mediated (nonspecific). Such altered binding interactions have been demonstrated in oral epithelial cells, wherein N-nitrosonornicotine (NNN), a nonspecific ligand, enhances phorbol ester binding. To characterize membrane changes that may be responsible for such an effect, the current study examined lipid changes in hamster oral epithelial (HCP) cells associated with NNN binding. HCP cultures at two cell densities, 5  10
4295237|Approaches for the isolation of human placental microvascular endothelial cells (HPMEC) using proteolytic enzymes have been described recently. However, the isolation procedure and enzyme composition most suitable for optimal disaggregation of placental tissue and isolation of HPMEC has not yet been established. We tested different proteolytic enzymes and enzyme mixtures for their capabilities of releasing endothelial cells from human term placental villous tissue. Best results were obtained with a mixture of collagenase/dispase/deoxyribonuclease I (0.28%/0.25%/0.01%). By adding a discontinuous Percoll gradient centrifugation step to the enzymatic dispersion, about
4294412|The ovarian mesothelium (OM) represents the tissue of origin of ovarian epithelial cancer. To gain insight into the regulation of this tissue, OM organoids and submesothelial ovarian stromal cells (SC) were isolated from New Zealand White rabbits by a stepwise tissue dispersal technique, while granulosa cells (GC) were aspirated from mature follicles (
4294489| The glycosylation and subsequent processing of native and recombinant glycoproteins expressed in established insect cell lines and insect larvae were compared. The Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf21) and Trichoplusia ni (TN-368 and BTI-Tn-5B1-4) cell lines possessed several intrinsic glycoproteins that are modified with both N-and O-linked oligosaccharides. The N-linked oligosaccharides were identified as both the simple (high mannose) and complex (containing sialic acid) types. Similarly, the T. ni larvae also possessed intrinsic glycoproteins that were modified with O-linked and simple and complex N-linked oligosaccharides. Additionally, human placental, secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) produced during replication of a recombinant baculovirus in T. ni larvae was modified with complex oligosaccharide having sialic acid linked (2-6) to galactose. 
41511609|This report describes the anti-inflammatory effects of MeOH extract from leaves of Carpinus tschonoskii (CE) on primary bone marrow-derived macrophage (BMDMs) and dendritic cells (BMDCs). Primary BMDMs and BMDCs were used for pro-inflammatory cytokine production and Western blot analysis. Human embryonic kidney cell line 293 T (HEK293 T) was used to access NF-KB activity. In all cases, CpG DNA was used to stimulate the cells. The CE (0-150 g/ml) was treated to BMDMs, BMDCs, and HEK293T cells. CE pre-treatment in CpGstimulated BMDMs and BMDCs showed a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on pro-inflammatory cytokine (e.g., IL-12 p40, IL-6, and TNF-) production as compared to nontreated controls. The CE pre-treatment had no significant inhibition on mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) phosphorylation but strongly inhibited IkB degradation. In NF-kB reporter gene assay, the CE pre-treatment inhibited NF-kB-dependent luciferase activity in a dose-dependent manner. Taken together, these data suggest that CE has significant inhibitory effect on pro-inflammatory cytokine production and warrant further studies concerning potentials of CE for medicinal uses.
4294783| The objective of this study was to determine if an immortalized mammalian chondrocyte cell line had a profile of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) expression that was consistent with what has been reported for primary chondrocytes in vitro and in vivo. A combination of zymography, Western, and Northern analysis was used to examine the expression of MMPs that are relevant to cartilage degradation. Both interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor a induced a 4- to 9-fold increase in the level of MMP-9 expression in conditioned media, and a 17- to 24-fold increase in MMP-3 mRNA. Other compounds such as basic fibroblast growth factor and staurosporine each increased MMP-9 expression individually and potentiated the effects of the two cytokines. Transforming growth factor  had no positive or inhibitory effects. N-methyl arginine blocked the increase in nitric oxide observed following treatment with the cytokines but did not prevent the increased expression of MMPs. The pattern of metalloproteinase expression observed in IRC cells and the response to cytokines is very similar to what has been reported during the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis. The IRC cells should be useful as a model system to study basic mechanisms controlling chondrocyte MMP expression and to identify pharmacological modulators of this process. 
4295017|Prostate tumors were induced in Lobund-Wistar rats by treatment with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) and testosterone propionate (TP). Androgen receptor (AR) expression was confirmed in 16 (100%) of the primary prostate cancers, with strong uniform staining in well-differentiated tumors and more variable AR immunoreactivity in poorly differentiated tumors. Epithelial cell lines were established from nine of the tumors. At early passages, four of the tumor cell lines tested were strongly immunoreactive for AR; however, only two of the cell lines, E2(A) and F2, have remained AR-positive. These cell lines specifically bind
4295214|The binding characteristics of tumor necrosis
41408879|The objective of this study was to establish and evaluate a new model for studying lipogenesis in grass carp preadipocytes. The morphology characteristic from preadipocytes to mature adipocytes was observed with the microscopic morphology, and the proliferation kinetics of cells was tested by cell counting. In addition, the nature and differentiation degree of cells were evaluated using Oil Red O staining, lipase activity determination, and reverse transcription PCR (RTPCR) assay. Morphologically, grass carp preadipocytes started to attach and grow on day 3, then they resembled fibroblasts, and most underwent attachment, proliferation, and growth arrest with subsequent accumulation of intracellular lipid droplets before becoming mature adipocytes. Glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) activity was increased gradually during the progress of culture. Analysis of RT-PCR confirmed that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- expression patterns were consistent with my observations regarding GPDH activity. In summary, grass carp preadipocytes cultured with 10% FBS at 28C in a humidified 5% CO atmosphere have high proliferation potential. Furthermore, the cells synthesize a range of markers that are consistent with this cell type. We conclude therefore that the grass carp preadipocytes described here have high capacity for lipogenesis and may, therefore, represent a unique tool for studying fish fat cell development and metabolism.
4295038| Many studies are being conducted to define the role of growth factors in cutaneous physiology in order to add cytokines in a timely fashion for optimal tissue engineering of skin. This study is aimed at developing a multistep approach for the production of bioengineered skin substitutes, taking into account the effects of various growth factors according to the culture time. The use of a serum-supplemented medium throughout the whole culture period of skin substitutes was compared to the sequential use of specific additives at defined culture steps. Histological analysis revealed that serum was necessary for keratinocyte proliferation and migration on dermal substitutes during the first 2 d after their seeding. However, the serum-free medium presented some advantages when supplemented with different additives at specific culture steps. Interestingly, ascorbic acid added to the dermal substitutes before and after keratinocyte seeding maintained their cubodal morphology in the basal epidermal layer. In the absence of serum, collagen matrix degradation slowed down, and a better multilayered epidermal organization was obtained, notably with retinoic acid. Stratum corneum formation was also enhanced by fatty acids. Thus, sequential addition of exogenous factors to the medium used to produce skin substitutes can improve their structural features and functional properties in vitro. 
4295308|The aim of this study was to develop a technique to culture satellite cells from isolated intact fast or slow human muscle fibers. Previous studies have been carried out on small rodent muscles where the fibers run from tendon to tendon, but this is the first description of the modification of this technique for much larger human muscles. We have demonstrated that the human muscle fibers are in fact segmental, and we have also shown that it is possible to obtain very pure satellite cell cultures. We discuss the importance of this technique as a source of highly purified muscle cell cultures, which can be used for further studies on satellite cell behavior.
20172218|Cell-specific antigens are mainly found in cells or membrane surfaces rather than in the surrounding matrix. However, until now it was not possible to produce antibodies specific for cellular structures of chondrocytes. In 1989, Lance (Immunol. Lett. 21:63-73; 1989) first established specific monoclonal antibodies for human articular chondrocytes tested only by immunofluorescence. Studies describing the specificity of these five antibodies (HUMC 1-5) and their relevance for immunohistological analysis of cartilage tissue were not available until now. Therefore, the aim of the following study was to investigate the distribution of HUMC 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 in mesenchymal cells in vivo and in vitro immunohistochemically. Further investigations concentrate on the localization of chondrocyte specific antigens using immunoelectron microscopy. Immunohistological studies showed positive immunostainings with all five antibodies in human chondrocytes in vivo and in vitro. A cross-reaction with human fibroblasts and osteoblasts for the antibodies HUMC 2 and HUMC 5 was observed. Furthermore, a parallel loss of immunoreactivity for HUMC 1, HUMC 3, and HUMC 4 was observed in cultured chondrocytes indicating that the specific antigens vanish during differentiation observed in vitro. Subsequent immunoblot analysis employing collagens as antigens did not show any reactivity. Using immunoelectron microscopy, gold particle labeling was observed in intracytoplasmatic vesicles of isolated chondrocytes. Our results indicate that HUMC 1, HUMC 3, and HUMC 4 are specific for cartilage cells and might be suitable for immunohistological analysis of different cartilage tissues and pathologically altered chondrocytes.
4294479|Analysis of vectorial ion transport and protein trafficking in transformed cystic fibrosis (CF) epithelial cells has been limited because the cells tend to lose their tight junctions with multiple subcultures. To elucidate ion transport and protein trafficking in CF epithelial cells, a polar cell line with apical and basolateral compartments will facilitate analysis of the efficacy of different gene therapy strategies in a "tight epithelium" in vitro. This study investigates the genotypic and phenotypic properties of a CF nasal polyp epithelial, AF508 homozygote, cell line that has tight junctions pre-crisis. The cells (
4294245|Mycoplasmal contamination remains a significant impediment to the culture of eukaryotic cells. For certain cultures, attempts to eliminate the infection are feasible alternatives to the normally recommended disposal of the contaminated culture. Here, three antibiotic regimens for mycoplasmal decontamination were compared in a large panel of naturally infected cultures: a 1-wk treatment with the fluoroquinolone mycoplasma removal agent (MRA), a 2-wk treatment with the fluoroquinolone ciprofloxacin, and three rounds of a sequential 1-wk treatment with BM-Cyclin containing tiamulin and minocyclin. These antibiotic treatments had a high efficiency of permanent cure: MRA 69%, ciprofloxacin 75%, BM-Cyclin 87%. Resistance to mycoplasma eradication was observed in some cell cultures: BM-Cyclin 0%, MRA 20%, ciprofloxacin 20%. Nearly all resistant contaminants that could be identified belonged to the species Mycoplasma arginini and M. orale. Detrimental effects of the antibiotics were seen in the form of culture death caused by cytotoxicity (in 5 to 13% of the cultures). Alterations of the cellular phenotypic features or selective clonal outgrowth might represent further untoward side effects of exposure to these antibiotics. Overall, antibiotic decontamination of mycoplasmas is an efficient, inexpensive, reliable, and simple method: 150/200 (75%) chronically and heavily contaminated cultures were cured and 50/200 (25%) cultures could not be cleansed and were either lost or remained infected. It is concluded that eukaryotic cell cultures containing mycoplasmas are amenable to antibiotic treatment and that a cure rate of three-quarters is a reasonable expectation.
41417647|Previous studies have demonstrated that oxygen environment is an important determinate factor of cell phenotypes and differentiation, although factors which affect pericellular oxygen concentration (POC) in murine chondrogenic cell culture remain unidentified. Oxygen concentrations in vivo were measured in rabbit musculoskeletal tissues, which were by far hypoxic compared to 20% O (ranging from 2.291.16 to 4.360.51%). Oxygen concentrations in murine chondrogenic cell (C3H10T1/2) culture medium were monitored in different oxygen concentrations (20% or 5%) in the incubator and in different medium volumes (3,700 or 7,400 1) within 25-cm flasks. Chondrogenic differentiation was assessed by glycosaminoglycan production with quantitative evaluation of Alcian blue staining in 12-well culture dishes. Expression of chondrogenic genes, aggrecan, and type II collagen , was examined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Oxygen concentrations in medium decreased accordingly with the depth from medium surface, and POC at Day 6 was 18.990.81% in 3,700-1 medium (1,480-m depth) and 13.260.23% in 7,400-m medium (2,960-m depth) at 20% O in the incubator, which was 4.960.08% (1,480-m depth) and 2.830.42% (2,960-m depth) at 5% O, respectively. The differences of POC compared by medium volume were statistically significant (p= 0.0003 at 20% and /?= 0.001 at 5%). Glycosaminoglycan production and aggrecan gene expression were most promoted when cultured in moderately low POC, 1,000 1 (2,960-m depth) at 20% O and 500 m (1,480-m depth) at 5% O in 12-well culture dishes.We demonstrate that medium volume and oxygen concentration in the incubator affect not only POC but also chondrogenic differentiation.
4294589|A number of methods have been developed to measure intracellular pH (pHi) because of its importance in intracellular events. A major advance in accurate pHi measurement was the development of the ratiometric fluorescent indicator dye, 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5,6-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF). We have used a fluorescence multi-well plate reader and a ratiometric method for determining pHi in primary cultures of rabbit corneal epithelial (CE) cells with BCECF. Fluorescence was measured at excitation wavelengths of
4295475|The tendency of the ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) to undergo metaplastic and morphogenetic changes during the life cycle, at variance with the adjacent peritoneal mesothelial cells, suggests that its biology may be regulated by underlying ovarian stromal cues. However, little is known about the role that the ovarian stroma plays in the pathobiology of the OSE, largely because of the lack of a suitable in vitro model. Here, we describe the establishment and characterization of conditionally immortalized ovarian stromal and surface epithelial cell lines from
4294066|Diacylglycerol (DAG) production has not been reported in previous studies that have characterized inositol phosphate production during alpha-1 adrenergic receptor signal transduction in the
20172186|Chemical carcinogenesis is a lengthy process that involves the rather loosely defined stages of initiation, promotion, and progression. Several model systems of mammary carcinogenesis have been designed to elucidate the mechanisms of chemical carcinogenesis. Most of these systems have included animal models. While organ specific chemical carcinogenesis can be initiated in these systems, the subsequent stages of promotion and progression are difficult to study in detail. Investigations on in vitro carcinogenesis have shown transformation of mammalian cells in culture; the transformational event, however, is difficult to discern within the monolayer culture. We have recently reported the development of an in vitro carcinogenesis system that allows both the initiation as well as the progression of mammary cells in a collagen gel matrix culture system. The cells transformed by a chemical carcinogen develop into discernible microtumors within the three dimensions of a collagen gel culture. Isolation of these microtumors from the collagen gel and subsequent culture in monolayer has produced cells capable of colony formation in soft agar. The present study further characterizes these microtumors originated in vitro by analysis of cell growth kinetics versus parallel control cells. In addition, flow cytometric and cytogenetic studies have been performed to investigate the chromosomal stability of these cells. It was also observed that the microtumors, produced in vitro from mammary epithelial cells of an inbred strain of rats, show the ability to form tumors upon transplantation into the fat pad of syngeneic hosts.
4295321|Epithelial cells from normal pig bladders proliferated when cocultured with lethally irradiated feeder cells of the LA7 rat mammary tumor line. When the bladder cells and feeders were plated together at a confluent density, the bladder cells proliferated as the feeder cells died, resulting in a confluent culture of bladder cells. The bladder cells were successfully subcultured by plating with freshly irradiated LA7 feeder cells. In this way, bladder cells from five pigs were carried to confluency in passages 1, 4, 7, 7, and 13, amounting to at least 6, 18, 24, 26, and 45 doublings in culture, respectively, and none showed signs of slowed proliferation at the time of culture termination. Fibroblasts never became a prominent feature of these cultures, and their frequency was determined to be about 26 fibroblasts per 10
40663758|To investigate whether pi 6 inactivation is involved in the development of rat pulmonary tumors, we compared the p16 status and tumorigenicity of cell lines which indicated different p16 status. The tumor cell line (PuD2) was established from lung adenocarcinoma induced in plutonium dioxide-inhaled rat in this study. The virus-immortalized SV40T2 cells, benzo[a] pyrene-induced BP cells, BP-derived BP(P) Tu cells, and gamma ray-transformed RTiv3 cells were utilized as the respiratory epithelial cell lines. A tumorigenicity assay-inoculating cells into nude mice revealed that PuD2, BP, and BP(P) Tu cells were tumorigenic, but SV40T2 and RTiv3 cells were not. Methylation-specific PCR of the p16 promoter region revealed that SV40T2 cells were unmethylated, BP cells displayed heterogeneous methylation, and BP(P) Tu and RTiv3 cells were completely methylated. Methylation-specific PCR and PCR of genomic DNA in the p16 region did not amplify product in PuD2 cells, indicating deletion of p16. Banded karyotypes prepared from PuD2 cells exhibited trisomy of chromosome 4, inversion in chromosome 11, and partial deletion of chromosomes 4 and 5. The demethylating agent 5Aza2dC partially demethylated the pi 6 promoter region of BP(P)Tu, BP and RTiv3 cells, increasing expression of the p16 transcript and decreasing growth of the cells. These results indicate that hypermethylation of the p16 promoter region occurs early in neoplastic transformation before acquisition of tumorigenicity in rat respiratory epithelium. Loss of genes located on chromosomes 4 and 5 may be important for tumor progression and acquisition of high tumorigenic activity in the Pu-induced rat lung tumor.
41417654|Human parthenogenetic embryonic stem (pES) cells can be clinically used in the future to avoid immunological rejection. However, the developmental potential of human pES cells remains to be elucidated. In this study, we generated a human pES-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) cell line (cHES-32-EGFP), which shows pluripotency thus far and maintains stable and robust EGFP expression in the undifferentiated and differentiated states in vivo and in vitro. Using this pES-EGFP cell line, we found that when human pESEGFP cells were injected into mice blastocysts, EGFP-positive cells progressively decreased with the development of blastocysts in vitro. Only 4 out of 23 embryos (17.4%) contained EGFP-positive cells and all of these embryos exhibited abnormal morphology or delayed development when the chimera blastocysts were implanted into the pseudopregnant recipient mouse uterus. These results raise serious questions regarding the feasibility of the generation of interspecific chimeras between mouse blastocysts and human pES cells.
4295288| A natural animal model for human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (H/N SCC) has not been described. The domestic cat has a high spontaneous occurrence of oropharyngeal SCC, which is similar to the human disease in aggressiveness and incurability. We have developed a cell line (SCCF1) from a laryngeal SCC of a cat. Keratinocytes were maintained in culture for greater than 50 passages. SCCF1 had strong cytokeratin immunohistochemical staining, weak vimentin staining, and no p53 staining. Ultrastructual features included cytokeratin filaments and desmosomes, as well as features of anaplasia (irregular cytoplasmic and nuclear margins, surface filopodia, and abnormal intermediate filament production). Karyotype analysis revealed aneuploidy, with a stemline chromosomal number of 34. The cells grew logarithmically for 6 d until confluency. SCCF1 expressed parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and protein, and secreted the protein into the medium. Treatment of SCCF1 with transforming growth factor- increased PTHrP production but did not affect PTHrP mRNA stability. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was used to amplify a 282-base pair region of feline PTHrP mRNA, encoding portions of the pre-pro and coding regions. The complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) was cloned and sequenced. The cDNA and the predicted amino acid sequences had a high degree of homology to human and canine PTHrP. RT-PCR was used to confirm alternate splicing of PTHrP mRNA for translation of PTHrP 1-139 and PTHrP 1-141. The SCCF1 cell line will permit mechanistic experiments on genetic dysregulation in neoplastic keratinocytes of the feline oropharynx, and development of an in vitro model for H/N cancer. 
4295119|Circulating filarial proteins elicit strong immunologic reactions in humans leading to the chronic manifestations in human lymphatic filariasis such as lymphatic occlusion, fibrosis, edema, and in some cases, tropical pulmonary eosinophilia. Our earlier studies, in vitro, conclusively prove that filarial parasitic sheath proteins induce apoptosis in HEp2 cells, an epithelial cell line, by a pathway inhibitable by bcl2. The present findings provide evidence that c-myc activation triggers apoptosis in HEp2 cells and that it is also responsible for the burst of abortive proliferation at 6 d of treatment of HEp2 bcl2 cells that overexpress bcl2, with filarial parasitic sheath protein, demonstrating the interplay between the two genes c-myc and bcl2, wherein bcl2 acts by restoring the prosurvival signal to c-myc and keeping its apoptotic tendency in check. This study also indicates that bcl2 upregulates c-H-ras, engaging ras to bring about the suppression of apoptosis through protein tyrosine kinase elevation, thus promoting the survival of the HEp2 bcl2 cells. In addition to the activation of these "signal switches," we also observe that these cells release cytokines like IL-6 and IL-8 through the upregulation of c-fos, when exposed to filarial parasitic sheath protein, reflecting on the immunomodulatory capacity of the epithelium to elicit a host immune response by setting up a chemotactic gradient, attracting inflammatory cells to the site of infection.
4294969|In the neonatal rat lung, alveolar development occurs from postnatal Days 4-13, during which time there is a fourfold increase in interstitial fibroblasts. Factors influencing emergence of new septa and cell proliferation associated with septal elongation have yet to be identified, in part because of difficulties inherent in studying this process in vivo. Using flow cytometric analysis of the DNA content of freshly isolated lung fibroblasts, we found that proliferation, as indicated by the percentage of cells in S plus
4294084|Human fibroblast, bladder carcinoma, and breast carcinoma cells in commercial serum-free media or balanced salt solutions rapidly lose K
4295584| The ability of 12 unique lepidopteran insect cell lines from Anticarsia gemmatalis, Heliothis virescens, Lymantria dispar (two lines), Mamestra brassica, Plutella xylostella, Spodoptera frugiperda (two lines), and Trichoplusia ni (three lines) to support production of a recombinant polydnavirus (PDV) protein (GiPDV 1.1) expressed using the Bac-to-Bac baculovirus expression system was examined. Polydnavirus gene GiPDV 1.1 was cloned into the pFastBac baculovirus vector under the control of the polyhedron promoter, followed by generation of recombinant bacmid-GiPDV 1.1 by site-specific transposition. The ability of each insect cell line to support recombinant PDV gene expression was estimated using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Each insect cell line infected with recombinant bac-mid-GiPDV 1.1 and tested in this study was capable of supporting and producing recombinant protein. Time course expression analysis showed that 72-96 h after transfection to be the optimal time for harvest of recombinant protein for each insect cell line. 
40205779|Bone is a complex, highly structured, mechanically active, three-dimensional (3-D) tissue composed of cellular and matrix elements. We previously published a report on in situ collagen gelation using a rotary 3-D culture system (CG-RC system) for the construction of large tissue specimens. The objective of the current study was to evaluate the feasibility of bone tissue engineering using our CG-RC system. Osteoblasts from the calvaria of newborn Wistar rats were cultured in the CG-RC system for up to 3 wk. The engineered 3-D tissues were implanted into the backs of nude mice and calvarial round bone defects in Wistar rats. Cell metabolic activity, mineralization, and bone-related proteins were measured in vitro in the engineered 3-D tissues. Also, the in vivo histological features of the transplanted, engineered 3-D tissues were evaluated in the animal models. We found that metabolic activity increased in the engineered 3-D tissues during cultivation, and that sufficient mineralization occurred during the 3 wk in the CG-RC system in vitro. One mo posttransplantation, the transplants to nude mice remained mineralized and were well invaded by host vasculature. Of particular interest, 2 mo posttransplantation, the transplants into the calvarial bone defects of rats were replaced by new mature bone. Thus, this study shows that large 3-D osseous tissue could be produced in vitro and that the engineered 3-D tissue had in vivo osteoinductive potential when transplanted into ectopic locations and into bone defects. Therefore, this system should be a useful model for bone tissue engineering.
20172216| Two transmembrane serine-threonine kinases (type I and II receptors), a membrane-anchored proteoglycan (type III), and a homodimeric ligand participate in the transforming growth factor beta type one (TGF1) signal transduction complex. The expression of recombinant receptors in insect cells co-infected with up to three recombinant baculoviruses was employed to study interactions among the ectodomains of the three types of receptors and the TGF1 ligand in absence of uncontrollable extrinsic factors in mammalian cells. Multi-subunit complexes were assembled in intact cells and purified on glutathione-conjugated beads for analysis by tagging one of the subunits with glutathione S-transferase (GST). Intrinsic ligand-independent interactions were observed among receptor subunits as follows: type III-III, type I-I, type III-I, and type II-I. The homeotypic complex of type II-II receptors and the heterotypic type III-II interaction was ligand dependent. The type I, but not the type III, subunit displaced about 50% of the type II component in either ligand-dependent homomeric type II-type II complexes or heteromeric type III-type II complexes to form type II-I or type III-II-I oligomers, respectively. The type II subunit displaced type I subunits in oligomers of the type I subunit. Specificity of type I receptors may result from differential affinity for the type II receptor rather than specificity for ligand. A monomeric subunit of the TGF1 ligand bound concurrently to type III and type II or type III and type I receptors, but failed to concurrently bind to the type II and type I subunits. The binding of TGF1 to the type I kinase subunit appears to require an intact disulfide-linked ligand dimer in the absence of a type III subunit. The combined results suggest a pentameric TGF signal transduction complex in which one unit each of the type III, type II, and type I components is assembled around the two subunits of the dimeric TGF ligand. An immobilized GST-tagged subunit of the receptor complex was utilized to assemble multi-subunit complexes in vitro and to study the phosphorylation events among subunits in the absence of extrinsic cell-derived kinases. The results revealed that (a) a low level of ligand-independent autophosphorylation occurs in the type I kinase; (b) a high level of autophosphorylation occurs in the type II kinase; (c) both the type III and type I subunits are trans-phosphorylated by the type II subunit; and (d) the presence of both type I and II kinases complexed with the type III subunit and dimeric TGF1 ligand in a pentameric complex causes maximum phosphorylation of all three receptor subunits. 
4294801|Electrophysiological studies of human bronchial epithelial cells in vitro are limited by the scarcity of biological material available for primary culture. To overcome this problem, we set up a protocol in which the cell number is first enlarged in LHC9/RPMI 1640 serum-free medium for up to six passages, each passage giving a four- to eightfold amplification. The cells are then plated at high density on permeable supports. Cell differentiation, monitored by measuring transepithelial potential difference (PD) and electrical resistance (R), is induced with a medium containing serum and a cocktail of different supplements and hormones. Maximal values of PD and R, obtained after 4-7 d of culture on permeable supports, are around -50 mV and
20869541|Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is an emerging therapeutic application because PRP contains various growth factors that have beneficial effects on tissue regeneration and engineering. Mesenchymal stem cells and PRP derived from peripheral blood have been well studied. In this study, we investigated the effects of PRP derived from human umbilical cord blood (UCB-PRP) on proliferation, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, and osteogenic differentiation of stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth (SHEDs), dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs), and periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs). Three types of dental stem cells were primarily isolated and characterized by flow cytometric analysis. Dental stem cells were exposed to various concentrations of UCB-PRP, which resulted in the proliferation of dental stem cells. Treatment with 2% UCB-PRP resulted in the highest level of proliferation. The ALP activity of DPSCs and PDLSCs increased following treatment with UCB-PRP in a dose-dependent manner up to a concentration of 2%. ALP activity decreased with higher concentration of UCB-PRP. The effects of UCB-PRP on calcium deposition were similar to those on proliferation and ALP activity. Treatment with 2% UCB-PRP resulted in the highest calcium depositions in DPSCs and PDLSCs; however, treatment with 1% UCB-PRP resulted in the highest calcium deposition in SHEDs. The concentrations of platelet-derived growth factor-AB and transforming growth factor-1 in UCB-PRP were investigated and found to be comparable to the amounts in peripheral blood. Overall, UCB-PRP had beneficial effects on the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of dental stem cells. Determination of the optimal concentration of UCB-PRP requires further investigation for clinical applications.
20172261|Myoepithelial cells exert important paracrine effects on epithelial morphogenesis and mitogenesis through direct cell-cell interactions and through synthesis of a basement membrane extracellular matrix. To study these effects further, this study established the first immortalized human myoepithelial cell line, HMS-1, and transplantable xenograft, HMS-X, from the rare parotid basal cell adenocarcinoma. The cell line exhibited a fully differentiated myoepithelial phenotype and the xenograft exhibited the rare property of accumulating an abundant extracellular matrix composed of both basement membrane and nonbasement membrane components with the latter predominating. With HMS-1 as a feeder layer, dramatic and specific induction of epithelial morphogenesis (spheroid formation) occurred with selected normal epithelial and primary carcinoma target cells. HMS-1 and HMS-X provide distinct advantages over the conventional murine matrices in existence. They will be invaluable in future studies of human tumor-myoepithelial and matrix interactions important for tumor cell growth, invasion, and metastasis.
20172205| We have analyzed cell cycle parameters for the Aedes albopictus C7-10 mosquito cell line, which has been systematically developed for somatic cell genetics, expression of transfected genes, and synthesis of hormone-inducible proteins. In rapidly cycling cells, we measured a generation time of 10-12 h. The duration of mitosis (M) was  1 h, and the DNA synthesis phase (S) required 6 h. Unlike Drosophila melanogaster Kc cells, in which the G2 gap is substantially longer than G1, in C7-10 cells G1 and G2 each lasted approximately 2 h. In these cells, the duration of both S and G2 was independent of the population doubling time, and the increase in population doubling time as cells approached confluency was due to prolongation of G1. When treated with the insect steroid hormone, 20-hydroxyecdysone, C7-10 mosquito cells complete the cycle in progress before undergoing a reversible arrest. 
4294376|Liver connective tissue cells (LCTC) isolated from patients with fibrotic livers have morphological and biochemical characteristics of myofibroblasts. We have examined the proliferation of LCTC derived from normal livers and from livers with fibrosis of different etiologies, as well as proliferation of skin fibroblasts. We have compared proliferation rates in the presence of fresh human serum and heat-inactivated serum. While skin fibroblast and LCTC from normal liver showed no difference, proliferation of LCTC from fibrotic livers was markedly decreased in the presence of heat-inactivated serum. We demonstrate that the native complement component C1 is a factor involved in the induction of DNA synthesis and proliferation of LCTC isolated from fibrotic livers. We propose that native C1, acting probably in cooperation with other growth factors, is involved in the expansion of connective tissue cells during the development of liver fibrosis.
24596457|Cultured myoblasts have been used extensively as an in vitro model in understanding the underlying mechanisms of myogenesis. Various protocols for establishing a pure myoblast culture have been reported which involve the use of special procedures like flow cytometry and density gradient centrifugation. In goat, only a few protocols for establishing a myogenic cell culture are available and these protocols use adult muscle tissues which often does not yield sufficient numbers of precursor cells with adequate proliferative capacity. Considering the disadvantages of adult myoblasts, we are proposing an alternate protocol using caprine fetus which does not require any special procedures. In the present study, more than 9095% fetal-derived cell populations had the typical spindle to polyhedral shape of myoblast cell and stained positive for desmin, hence confirming their myogenic origin. These cells attained the maximum confluency as early as 34 d against 3 wk by adult myoblasts indicating a better growth potential. Further, quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed a higher expression (p<0.01) of myogenic regulatory factors (i.e., myogenic determination factor 1, myogenic factor 5, and myogenin) and myostatin (MSTN) in the fetal as compared to the adult myoblasts. Consequently, higher proliferation and differentiation ability along with higher abundance of myogenic markers and MSTN make the fetal myoblasts a better in vitro model.
40205918|In vitro culture systems are needed to mimic in vivo epithelial cell environments for identifying cell signaling, gene expressions, and molecular mechanisms. One such system is matrix-coated transwell cultures. However, no data exist on culturing Sertoli cells in this manner with respect to testosterone-regulated gene expression. Because the TM4 mouse Sertoli-like cell line expresses androgen receptor, our objective was to determine if testosterone treatment added to the bottom chamber of a matrix-coated transwell system induces some gene expressions found in Sertoli cells in vivo. After serum starvation, transwell-cultured TM4 cells were treated with testosterone or left untreated for 24 h. Microarray analyses initially identified differentially expressed genes either induced or repressed by testosterone treatment. By Northern blot analyses, Pern mRNA, a frequently used marker of Sertoli cell testosterone responsiveness, was induced. Proteins of the transcripts induced by testosterone in the in vitro system were immunolocalized to Sertoli cells in testosterone-dependent stages of spermatogenesis in mouse testes. By immunohistochemistry analyses of sectioned mouse testes, gene expression induced by testosterone in transwell-cultured TM4 cells, profilin as well as secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteines (SPARC) are localized to Sertoli cells in testosterone-dependent stages of spermatogenesis. Findings include localizations of SPARC and profilin, as well as an apparent germ cell communication required for translation of Pern mRNA in Sertoli cells. Taken together, results of these studies suggest that this TM4 transwell-culture system could be used to study these testosterone-regulated Sertoli gene expressions in vitro.
20172190| Transformed JB6 cells can be stably reverted to nontransformed phenotype by AP-1 inhibiting glucocorticoid fluocinolone (FA) and cAMP elevator forskolin (FN), yielding stable revertants of promotion resistant (P) and promotion sensitive (P) phenotypes. AP-1 activity of nontransformed P and P revertant clones was decreased under a variety of experimental conditions compared with their transformed counterparts. Moreover, AP-1 activity in P cells under anchorage-independent conditions was induced by 12-0-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) while AP-1 activity in the reverted P cells was not induced, just as observed for the original P and P variants. Taken together these data suggest that changes in AP-1 activity may be one key mediator not only of forward progression but also of reversion of tumor cells to nontransformed phenotype. In addition, the higher transfection efficiency of the new reverted P and P cells renders them useful for studying the role of transcription factors in tumor promotion. 
4294254|This study aimed to establish and characterize a new stromal cell line that supports the proliferation of hematopoietic blast cells and their differentiation into osteoclast-like cells. Cells isolated from the calvaria of neonatal Balb/c mice were subcultured every 2 to 4 days at
4294558|Although Caco-2 cells are frequently employed for the study of enterocyte lipid metabolism, variable results have been reported regarding their ability to synthesize and secrete lipids and apolipoproteins. The major goal of this investigation is to examine the capacity of Caco-2 cells to elaborate and secrete lipids, lipoproteins, and apolipoproteins at different degrees of morphological and functional differentiation. Cells were cultured in medium with 5% fetal bovine serum (FBS), on permeable polycarbonate filters from 2 to 30 d in the presence of
24712904|Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells have become an attractive cell source for periodontal ligament regeneration treatment because of their potential to engraft to several tissue types after injury. Most researchers have focused on the transplantation process, but few have paid attention to cell safety concerns and rapid proliferation before transplantation. Using serum-free medium to culture stem cells may be an effective method to avoid problems associated with exogenous serum and the addition of growth factors to promote cell proliferation. Here, we randomly divided our serum-free cultures and treated them with different levels of epidermal growth factor (EGF). We then evaluated changes in rates of cell adhesion, proliferation, apoptosis, and cell cycle ratio as well as their differentiation potential. The data showed that all of these parameters were significantly different when comparing serum-free cultures with and without 10 nM/L EGF (p<0.05/0.01); however, cells with 10 nM/L EGF did not respond differently than cells grown in standard serum-containing media without EGF (p<0.05). In summary, our results demonstrate that 10 nM/L EGF was the optimal dose for serum-free culture, which can replace traditional standard serum medium for in vitro expansion of miniature pig bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells.
4294853| Bile duct epithelial cells, or cholangiocytes, proliferate in vivo under a number of pathologic (i.e., partial hepatectomy) and pathophysiologic (i.e., bile duct ligation, malignant transformation) conditions. However, little is known about the possible growth factors that modulate these proliferative responses, in part because an in vitro model to study proliferation of nontransformed, normal cholangiocytes is not available. We report here the development of a rat cholangiocyte cell line (MMRC, minimal media-requiring rat cholangiocytes) that grows under hormonally defined, serum-free conditions on plastic and maintains a cholangiocyte phenotype. Morphologic as well as functional studies indicate that the cell line is polarized and actively transports fluid and electrolytes in an apical to basolateral direction. MMRC, when cultured for 24 mo. and passaged 80 times, have not undergone malignant transformation, because the cell line failed to grow under anchorage-independent conditions or in nude mice. Cellular proliferation is accelerated 2-8-fold by insulin, insulin-like growth factor 1, epidermal growth factor, and hepatocyte growth factor, growth factors known to stimulate tyrosine kinase receptors, and inhibited 2-10-fold by TGF and IL-2. Glyco-conjugates of primary (i.e., cholic and chenodeoxycholic acid) and secondary bile acids (i.e., deoxycholic and lithocholic acid) do not alter proliferation at low concentration (1 M), but are toxic at higher concentration (10 M). In summary, we have developed and characterized a cholangiocyte cell line derived from normal rat liver, which grows under hormonally defined, serum-free conditions, maintains a nonmalignant, cholangiocyte phenotype, displays morphologic and functional features of polarity, and alters its proliferation rate in response to a variety of growth factors. 
20616564|We report herein a study of aging using in vitro and in vivo models. Glial fibrillary acidic protein and ferritin expression levels increased, and the levels of glutamate transporter 1 and transferrin receptor 1 decreased in aging mouse spinal cord and its astrocytes. Mitochondrial transmembrane potential in astrocytes decreased after 60 d of culture. Given the relationship between aging and loss of antioxidant tolerance capacity, we examined the expression of heme oxygenase 1 (HO1) and NAD(P)H/quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) in the old mouse astrocytes and spinal cord. Indeed, both antioxidant enzymes decreased there. Total nuclear factor E2-related factor 2, which governs basal and inducible expression of HO1 and NQO1, decreased significantly. Significantly, epigallocatechin gallate restored the Nrf2 activity.
4294572|Platelets and coagulation are involved in the pathogenesis of blood-borne metastases. The aim of this study is to obtain more information about the mechanisms involved in the initial adhesion of tumor cells to endothelial cells. In short term experiments with tumor cells, suspended in the medium of cultured endothelial cells, we tested whether addition of both platelets and thrombin cause more tumor cell adhesion to endothelial cells, than when either platelets or thrombin are acting alone. HeLa cells or HT29 cells, prelabeled with radioactive
20172144| Ladsin is a laminin-like cell-adhesive scatter factor with potent cell motility-stimulating ability and was purified from serum-free conditioned medium of a malignant human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line STKM-1. To test its possible role in tumor angiogenesis, we investigated its effect on primary culture of endothelial cells (human umbilical vein endothelial cells) and endothelial cell line ECV304 in this study. Cell adhesion and motility effects of ladsin were observed in both types of endothelial cells. In cell-attachment assay, ladsin interacted with integrin 31 that was expressed on the endothelial cell surface. In Boyden chambers, ladsin stimulated both directed and random migration of ECV304 cells. Ladsin induced repair of artificial wounds generated in ECV304 cell monolayers by stimulating cell migration. Ladsin did not affect the growth rate of ECV304 cells at a low cell density but significantly increased the saturation cell density. These results suggest that ladsin may be involved in the adhesion and migration of endothelial cells under some physiological and pathological conditions. 
4295667|Fibroblasts are important cellular components in wound healing, scar formation, and fibrotic disorders; and the fibroblast-populated collagen-gel (FPCG) model allows examination of fibroblast behavior in an in vitro three-dimensional environment similar to that in vivo. Contraction of free-floating FPCGs depends on an active and dynamic cytoskeleton, and the contraction dynamics are highly influenced by cell density. We investigated mechanistic differences between high- and low-cell density FPCG contraction by evaluating contraction dynamics in detail, using specific cytoskeletal disruptors. Collagen gels were seeded with human lung fibroblasts at either high (HD) or low (LD) density, and incubated with or without cytoskeletal disruptors colchicine (microtubules) or cytochalasin D (microfilaments). Gel area was measured daily. FPCG contraction curves were essentially sigmoidal, featuring an initial period of no contraction (lag phase), followed by a period of rapid contraction (log phase). Contraction curves of HD-FPCGs were distinct from those of LD-FPCGs. For example, HD-FPCGs had a negligible lag phase (compared with 3 d for LD-FPCGs) and exhibited a higher rate of log-phase contraction. Both colchicine and cytochalasin dose-dependently inhibited contraction but specifically affected different phases of contraction in HD- and LD-FPCGs; and colchicine inhibited LD-FPCGs much more than HD-FPCGs. The data indicate that LD- and HD-FPCGs contract through different primary mechanisms. Microtubules and microfilaments are both complementarily and dynamically involved in the contraction of FPCGs, and cell density influences primary cytoskeletal mechanisms. These results provide valuable information about fibroblast behavior in healing and fibrosis, and may suggest novel treatment options.
4294151|Ovarian (OM) and extraovarian (EM) mesothelia represent a common source of gynecologic malignancies with yet unclear pathogenesis. Ovulation triggers a finite wave of DNA synthesis and morphogenesis only in native OM cells, probably through the activation of intraovarian growth factors. To evaluate their growth response to such factors, OM and EM cells were obtained from estrous New Zealand white rabbits by enzymatic dispersion and unit gravity sedimentation. Cell cultures were maintained in serumless, fibronectin-rich, HL-1 medium without or with rabbit corpora lutea tissue extracts (CLE). The growth effects of CLE were evaluated by measuring percent changes in cell number relative to controls (CCN), cell population doublings (CPD), cell population doubling time in hours (CPDT). After 7.5 days, CLE enhanced (P < 0.001) the growth of both OM and EM cells, which exhibited, respectively, a CCN of 214 and 257%; a CPD of 2.89 and 2.87; and a CPDT of 54.39 and 59.49. CLE-treated OM and EM cells were smaller, formed more cohesive monolayers, and exhibited more frequent and diffuse microvilli than control cells. These data show a similar in vitro response of OM and EM cells to luteal growth factors, suggesting that the lack of postovulatory morphogenesis in native extraovarian mesothelia is due to the spatially restricted activity of intraovarian growth factors.
40205844|Bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) have the capability of differentiating into mesenchymal and nonmesenchymal lineages. In this study, MSCs isolated from adult Sprague-Dawley rats were cultured to proliferation, followed by in vitro induction under specific conditions. The results demonstrated that MSCs were transdifferentiated into cells with the Schwann cell (SC) phenotypes according to their morphology and immunoreactivities to SC surface markers including S-100, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75). Consequently, rat adult MSCs can be induced in vitro to differentiate into SC-like cells, thus developing an abundant and accessible SC reservoir to meet the requirements of constructing tissue engineered nerve grafts for peripheral nerve repair.
4295630|Anurans are important animal models for studying the effects of anthropogenic chemical contamination of the environment. Two-compartment Teflon flow-through diffusion cells can be used to study percutaneous absorption of xenobiotics across harvested skin. However, such an approach currently necessitates that skin be harvested just before experimentation, a requirement that calls for the continuous growth and housing of living animals. The ability to preserve and store skin would allow more efficient use of animals and more flexibility in experimental design. To this end, we examined the viability of harvested anuran skin stored under various protocols consistent with current practices of mammalian skin preservation. Skin from the American bullfrog maintained 80-85% viability after 28 d, whereas viability of skin from the marine toad was only maintained for 7-10 d.
40602795|The major objective of this study was to improve the development rate of parthenogenetic porcine embryos. In this study, the anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic effects of three antioxidants, -mercaptoethanol (-ME), -tocopherol, and extracellular Superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD), were examined on the development of parthenogenetic porcine embryos. The development rate of parthenogenetic porcine embryos to the blastocyst stage was 8.1% for control; 19.1%, 14.6%, and 5.0% for 1, 3, and 5 M -ME; 17.2% and 17.5% for 50 and 100 M -tocopherol and 12.0% and 4.0% for EC-SOD transgenic mouse embryonic fibroblast (Tg-MEF) and ECSOD non-transgenic mouse embryonic fibroblast (NTg-MEF) conditioned medium at day 3, respectively. Here, -ME,-tocopherol, and EC-SOD Tg-MEF conditioned medium increased the development rate of parthenogenetic porcine embryos to the blastocyst stage (P< 0.05). The average number of total cells and apoptotic cells at the blastocyst was analyzed at the optimal conditions of the three antioxidants. The three antioxidants increased the average number of total cells at the blastocyst, and they decreased apoptotic cells at the blastocyst as compared to control without supplementation (P< 0.05). When the reactive oxygen species levels in two-cell embryos after 1 M -ME and 100 M -tocopherol treatment were examined, those were lower than control group (P<0.05). In conclusion, it was found that the three antioxidants, -mercaptoethanol, -tocopherol, and EC-SOD Tg-MEF, conditioned medium can play a role as a strong stimulator in the development of parthenogenetic porcine embryos.
20869540|The objective of this study is to establish the aging model of murine hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) ex vitro and investigate its relative biological mechanism, aimed to build the foundation for searching the methods to delaying HSC aging. Sca-1HSC were isolated and purified from murine bone marrow mono-nucleated cell by magnetic-activated cell sorting. The purity of separated cells was analyzed by flow cytometry (FCM) and the expression of Sca-1 was detected by immunofluorescence. Sca-1HSC induced aging by tert-butylhydroperoxide (t-BHP, final concentration of 100 mol/L) for 6 h to establish the murine HSC aging model in vitro. Biological characteristics of aging HSC were evaluated by mixed hematopoietic progenitor cell culture in vitro, cell cycle assay and senescence-associated -galactosidase (SA--gal) cytochemical staining. Telomere length and telomerase activity were detected by southern blotting and telomere repeat amplification protocol-polymerase chain reaction (TRAP-PCR) augmentation. The expressions of p16 INK4a , P19 Arf , P53, P21 Cip1/Waf1 mRNA were detected by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. The purity of separated Sca-1 HSC was 87.2% and the survival of Sca-1 HSC was 9699%. After 6 h cocultured with 100 mol/L t-BHP, the ability of aging Sca-1 HSC to form mixed hematopoietic progenitor colony, self-renewal and multi-differentiation were decreased significantly. The number of aging Sca-1 HSC entered G1 phase of the cell cycle and the percentage of positive cells expressed SA--gal increased significantly. The telomere length shortened and the telomerase activity decreased. The expression of p16 INK4a , p19 Arf , p53, P21 Cip1/Waf1 mRNA increased. The t-BHP can induce Sca-1 HSC senescence in vitro. The signal transduction pathways of p16 INK4a retinoblastoma and P19 Arf -Mdm2-P53-P21 Cip1/Waf1 may play key roles in the Sca-1 HSC senescence induced by t-BHP.
4294966| Thirteen cell lines were established and characterized from brain, kidney, lung, spleen, heart, liver, gall bladder, urinary bladder, pancreas, testis, skin, and periorbital and tumor tissues of an immature male green turtle (Chelonia mydas) with fibropapillomas. Cell lines were optimally maintained at 30 C in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Propagation of the turtle cell lines was serum dependent, and plating efficiencies ranged from 13 to 37%. The cell lines, which have been subcultivated more than 20 times, had a doubling time of approximately 30 to 36 h. When tested for their sensitivity to several fish viruses, most of the cell lines were susceptible to a rhabdovirus, spring viremia carp virus, but refractory to channel catfish virus (a herpesvirus), infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (a birnavirus), and two other fish rhabdoviruses, infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus and viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus. During in vitro subcultivation, tumor-like cell aggregates appeared in cell lines derived from lungs, testis, and periorbital and tumor tissues, and small, naked intranuclear virus particles were detected by thin-section electron microscopy. These cell lines are currently being used in attempts to isolate the putative etiologic virus of green turtle fibropapilloma. 
40602781|Ailanthus altissima swingle (ailanthic cortex, AAS) has been used as a traditional medicine for fever, bleeding, infection, and inflammation for many years in Korea. However, its mechanisms have not been examined. In the present study, we investigate the effect of AAS on the mast-cell-mediated allergic and inflammatory reaction using in vivo and in vitro models and elucidate its molecular mechanisms. AAS significantly inhibited compound 48/48-induced edema and systemic anaphylaxis.AAS significantly inhibited passive cutaneous anaphylaxis. AAS inhibited histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells (RPMCs) in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, AAS significantly inhibited production of inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-8 on the phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187 (PMACI)-stimulated human mast cell line, HMC-1 cells. AAS inhibits the IgE or stem cell factor-induced TNF production on RPMCs. In activated HMC-1 cells, the expression level of NF-kappaB/Rel/A protein increased in the nucleus, whereas the level of NF-kappaB/Rel/A in the nucleus was decreased by AAS treatment. In addition, AAS inhibited the PMAC1-induced IkappaBalpha degradation. In conclusion, the present results indicate that AAS has potent anti-anaphylactic and anti-inflammatory properties.
4295450| The optimum temperature for the growth of porcine stable (PS) kidney cell line is 37 C. We have adapted the cell line to grow at 40 C. The original cell line grown at 37 C has been denoted as PS-37, and the adapted new strain has been denoted as PS-40. Both the cell lines were screened for mycoplasma by Hoechst staining and tritiated uridineuracil uptake and were found to be negative. Comparative characterization of PS-40 and its progenitor PS-37 cell line was done by using various parameters. The antigenic studies indicated that the new cell strain was not cross-contaminated with any other cell lines. It was observed that PS-40 cells were more fibroblastic with clean cytoplasm and appeared healthy. The growth of PS-40 cells was faster than the original cell line. The karyological study showed heteroploid chromosome number in PS-40 cells. The modal chromosome number of PS-40 cells was 58, whereas that of PS-37 cell line was 38. The lactic dehydrogenase isoenzyme pattern showed a cathodal shift of bands. The PS-40 cell strain could be cryopreserved and revived. The viability of PS-37 as well as PS-40 cell lines is in the range of 90-95%, and the growth characteristics of thawed cells showed six- to eightfold multiplications within 5 d. The virus susceptibility study revealed that the cytopathic effect was more profound and observed 1 d earlier in PS-40 cell line. Increased yields of Japanese encephalitis, Sindbis, and Semliki forest viruses were obtained by 1.8, 1.75, and 1.5 log plaque-forming units/ml, respectively. The yield of West Nile virus was, however, comparable to that in PS-37 cell line. Both the cell lines were refractory to Dengue viruses. 
4294720|A factor with a molecular weight of less than 1 kDa in the mucosa of the bovine small intestine (low molecular weight factor or LMW factor) stimulated DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes in primary culture. This factor only showed its activity when it was added with a larger factor with a molecular weight of 30 kDa that was also found in the same tissue (high molecular weight factor or HMW factor). The LMW factor probably acts to enhance the action of a hepatotrophic growth factor, since EGF and HGF can substitute for the HMW factor. The action of the LMW factor was not due to the actions of low molecular weight substances such as norepinephrine, estradiol, triiodothyronine, and putrescine, which enhance the action of EGF or HGF, since substantial amounts of these substances were not found in the extract. When intraperitoneally administered into rats, after two-thirds hepatectomy, the LMW factor enhanced hepatocyte proliferation without the administration of the HMW factor. In the regenerating liver, a hepatotrophic growth factor(s), which acts synergistically with the LMW factor, might be properly provided, but the supply of the LMW factor might be below the level that maximally stimulates hepatocyte proliferation.
4295697|Long-term cultures (LTC) producing dendritic cells (DC) have been previously established from spleen. LTC support the development of nonadherent cells comprising small DC progenitors and immature DC. Similarly, the splenic stroma STX3, derived from a LTC which ceased DC production, can support DC development from precursors in overlaid bone marrow. The STX3 stroma is an immortalised mixed population of endothelial cells and elongated spindle-shaped cells, thought to be fibroblasts. The stromal cell components of STX3 have been studied here. A panel of 102 cell lines was established by single-cell sorting. A range of clone morphology, including cobblestone cells and elongated spindle-shaped cells, was reflective of heterogeneity in STX3. However, similar expression levels for the endothelial genes ACVRL1/ ALK1, COL18A1, and MCAM in 13 splenic stromal cell lines suggested that both cell types had endothelial origin. The hematopoietic support function of stromal clones was tested in coculture assays with a bone marrow cell overlay. Splenic stromal cell lines with different morphology were both supporters and nonsupporters of hematopoiesis, in terms of foci formation or release of suspension cells. Cloning of STX3 led to the isolation of a panel of splenic endothelial cell lines heterogeneous in terms of morphology and hematopoietic support function.
4295581|We have developed a serum-free medium, designated ESF7, in which leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) clearly stimulated murine embryonic stem (ES) cell proliferation accompanied by increased expression of nanog and Rex-1 and decreased FGF-5 expression. These effects were dependent on the concentration of LIF. The ES cells maintained in ESF7 medium for more than 2 yr retained an undifferentiated phenotype, as manifested by the expression of the transcription factor Oct-3/4, the stem cell marker SSEA-1, and alkaline phosphatase. Withdrawal of LIF from ESF7 medium resulted in ES cell apoptosis. Addition of serum to ESF7 medium promoted ES cell differentiation. Addition of BMP4 promoted ES cell differentiation into simple epithelial-like cells. In contrast, FGF-2 promoted ES cell differentiation into neuronal and glial-like cells. Under serum-free culture conditions, LIF was sufficient to stimulate cell proliferation, it inhibited cell differentiation, and it maintained self-renewal of ES cells. Because this simple serum-free adherent monoculture system supports the long-term propagation of pluripotent ES cells in vitro, it will allow the elucidation of ES cell responses to growth facLors under defined conditions.
4295322|Penaeid cell culture has gained much attention as a potential model to facilitate researches on the characterization of the virus and to develop more sophisticated and improved diagnostic procedures for use in the aquaculture industry. However, to date, cell division processes of cultured penaeid cells have not been found, which is suggested as one of the reasons that block the establishment of the continuous penaeid cell lines. We reported here the cell division processes of cultured lymphoid cells of Penaeus japonicus. The culture medium used was based on M199 and was modified by supplementing saline components. Cultures were incubated at 25  C, and
20869564|Epigenetic modification influences reprogramming and subsequent development of somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) embryos. Such modification includes an increase in histone acetylation. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), such as trichostatin A (TSA) and valproic acid (VPA), have been known to maintain a high cellular level of histone acetylation. Hence, treatment of nuclear transfer embryos with HDACi may increase the efficiency of cloning. The present study attempted direct comparison of TSA and VPA with regard to the potency of enhancement of in vitro development in porcine SCNT embryos. Reconstructed oocytes using fetal fibroblasts were cultured in PZM-3 containing no HDACi (control), 5 mM VPA, or 50 nM TSA for 24 h, and another 5 d thereafter without HDACi. The frequency of blastocyst formation was significantly higher (P<0.05) in embryos treated with VPA than the frequencies with TSA and without HDACi (125/306, 40.8% vs. 94/313, 30.2% vs. 80/329, 23.4%). In addition, VPA treatment significantly increased (P<0.05) the number of inner cell mass (ICM) cells compared with the control (15.61.7 vs. 10.82.6), whereas no differences were observed between the TSA treatment and control groups (12.93.0 vs. 10.82.6). The present study demonstrates that VPA enhances in vitro development of porcine SCNT embryos, particularly by an increase in blastocyst formation and in the number of ICM cells, suggesting that VPA may be more potent than TSA in supporting developmental competence of cloned embryos.
4294372|One of the major problems in cell culturing is the misidentification or cross-contamination of authentic continuous cell lines. We applied a rapid and efficient isoelectric focusing (IEF) technique for the routine analysis to detect interspecies contamination of cell cultures and for the identification of unknown animal cell lines. The method is based on the isoelectric separation of a specific set of intracellular enzymes which can be used to distinguish between cell lines of human, murine, or other mammalian origin. By means of preformed agarose gels, standardized conditions and equipment, this technique is especially applicable for routine work and allows the analysis of a large number of unknown samples with reproducible results. One hundred seventy-seven cell lines which have been sent to the Department of Human and Animal Cell Cultures at the DSM (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen and Zellkulturen) were analyzed for species authentication; only three cell lines were found not to be of the presumed species. Our study strongly emphasizes standardized IEF as an efficient and rapid method for routinely monitoring the authenticity of cell lines.
4294462|Keratinocytes and melanocytes, which together form units of structure and function within human epidermis, are known to differ in expression of autocrine growth factors, particularly those with heparin binding affinity. Because such cytokines could be regulated by the endogenous heparinlike glycosaminoglycan, heparan sulfate, proteoglycan synthesis was compared between human keratinocytes and melanocytes cultured from a common donor. Following steady-state isotopic labeling under conditions of active growth (low density cultures) and growth inhibition (high density cultures), the sulfated polymers were isolated from conditioned media and cell extracts. We found that keratinocytes produced substantially more sulfated glycosaminoglycans than did the melanocytes. There was no evidence for hyaluronic acid synthesis by the melanocytes. The majority of
40663798|Human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines can be established from the preimplantation embryos. Due to their ability to differentiate into all three embryonic layers, hESC are of significant interest as a renewable source of cell material for different applications, especially for cell replacement therapy. Since the establishment of the first hESC lines in 1998, several studies have described the derivation and culture of new hESC lines using various derivation methods and culture conditions. Our group has currently established eight new hESC lines of which three of the latest ones are described in a more detailed way in this report. The described lines have been established using mechanical derivation methods for surplus bad quality embryos and culture conditions containing human foreskin fibroblast feeder cells and serum-free culture medium. All the new lines have a normal karyotype and typical hESC characteristics analyzed in vitro. The described hESC lines are available for research purposes upon request (www.regea.fi).
24596447|There is a significant unmet need for safe, anabolic muscle therapies to treat diseases and conditions associated with severe muscle weakness and frailty. The identification of such therapies requires appropriate cell-based screening assays to select compounds for further development using animal models. Primary human skeletal muscle cells have recently become available from a number of commercial vendors. Such cells may be valuable for studying the mechanisms that direct muscle differentiation, and for identifying and characterizing novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of age- and injury-induced muscle disorders. However, only limited characterization of these cells has been reported to date. Therefore, we have examined four primary human muscle cell preparations from three different vendors for their capacity to differentiate into multinucleated myotubes. Two of the preparations demonstrated robust myotube formation and expressed characteristic markers of muscle differentiation. Furthermore, these myotubes could be induced to undergo morphological atrophy- and hypertrophy-like responses, and atrophy could be blocked with an inhibitor of myostatin signaling, a pathway that is known to negatively regulate muscle mass. Finally, the myotubes were efficiently infected with recombinant adenovirus, providing a tool for genetic modification. Taken together, our results indicate that primary human muscle cells can be a useful system for studying muscle differentiation, and may also provide tools for studying new therapeutic molecules for the treatment of muscle disease.
41318688|Regarding discrepancies that exist among different studies which have tried to clarify critical factors in human Th17 cell differentiation, the aim of this study was to identify the best condition for human Th17 differentiation and to clarify the possible role of TGF- in differentiation of these cells. Nave CD4+ T cells were isolated from cord blood samples and cultured either in XVIVO 15 serum-free medium or RPMI 1640 containing 10% FBS. Purified cells were treated with different combinations of polarizing cytokines (TGF-, IL-I, IL-6, IL-23 and IL-21) followed by analysis of the expression of characteristic genes and their relevant cytokines by realtime quantitative RT-PCR and ELISA method, respectively. Our data indicate that a combination of TGF- plus IL-6 and IL-23 cytokines in X-VIVO 15 serum-free medium could be applied as the best condition for developing human Thl7 cells in compare with other studied cytokine treatments. It is shown that TGF- could be considered as a positive regulator for human Th17 cell differentiation only if applied in average concentrations. Interestingly, polarizing treatments in absence of TGF-, induced doublesecreting Th17 cells which co-express IL-17 and IFN- whereas polarization in presence of TGF--induced singlesecreting (only IL-17 expressing) Th17 cells.
40205927|We investigated the effects of stearic acid (saturated), oleic acid (monounsaturated), linoleic acid (n-6 polyunsaturated), and -linolenic acid (n3 polyunsaturated) on lipid metabolism in a hepatocyte-derived cell line, HepG2. HepG2 cells were cultured in medium supplemented with either stearic acid (0.1% w/v), oleic acid (0.1% v/v), linoleic acid (0.1% v/v), or -linolenic acid (0.1% v/v). After 24 h, expression of lipid metabolism-associated genes was evaluated by real-time PCR. -Linolenic acid showed a suppressive effect on the hepatic fatty acid de novo synthesis and fatty acid oxidation pathways, while linoleic acid also showed a tendency to suppress these pathways although the effect was weaker. Moreover, -linolenic acid enhanced the expression of enzymes associated with reactive oxygen species (ROS) elimination. In contrast, oleic acid tended to promote fatty acid synthesis and oxidation. In conclusion, -linolenic acid and linoleic acid may be expected to ameliorate hepatic steatosis by downregulating fatty acid de novo synthesis and fatty acid oxidation, and by upregulating ROS elimination enzymes. Oleic acid had no distinct effects for improving steatosis or oxidative stress.
4294716|A primary rat choroidal epithelial cell culture system was developed to investigate mechanisms of heavy metal toxicity on the blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier. Epithelial cells were dissociated from choroidal tissue by pronase digestion and cultured in standard DMEM culture media supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and 10 ng epithelial growth factor per ml. The procedure yielded
4294262|The effect of a conventional antibiotic (penicillin/streptomycin) mixture on the widely used kidney epithelial cell line,
4295672| Unossified horn or pilose antler cut from deer, which belong to the Cervidae generally is termed Nokyong. Nokyong is one of the most famous Korean traditional medicines and has been considered to possess sexual-reinforcing and antiaging actions. In this study, water extract of deer antler extract (DAA) prepared from the growing antler of Cervus korean TEMMINCK var. mantchuricus Swinhoe was used to investigate the efficacy of the DAA on the development of type II collagen (CII)-induced arthritis (CIA) in rats. Male rats were immunized with an emulsion of 200 g of CII and complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). The rats then were administered by injection a suspension of DAA or phosphate-buffered saline. The effect of DAA on cellular responses to CII was examined. The injection of DAA suppressed the CII-specific secretion of interferon (IFN)- from splenocytes ex vivo. The influence of DAA also was evaluated on the incidence and development of arthritis in rat CIA. Rats were immunized twice at a 3-wk interval with bovine CII, with DAA being given by injection once a d for 14 d with four different regimens. A 14-d course of DAA treatment at a daily dose of 100 g/kg, which began on the d of the first CII immunization, suppressed the development of arthritis, as well as antibody formation and delayed-type hypersensitivity to CII. Treatment with DAA resulted in inhibition of development of arthritis and immune responses to CII. 
4294515| Single two-cell-stage embryos of a polyembryonic wasp Copidosoma floridanum cultured in 20 l droplets of culture medium developed to morulae at the same developmental rate as those in host eggs, but the subsequent development into polymorulae was inferior. This inferior development was markedly improved by addition of juvenile hormone (I, II, or III) or its analogues to the culture medium in a concentration-dependent manner. 
4295098|We developed a new cell stimulation method in which magnetic microparticles (MPs) were introduced into the cytoplasm of cultured myoblasts and the cells were cultured in a magnetic field. The differentiation of myoblasts was examined from the viewpoint of their morphology and myogenin production. After exposure to the magnetic field, the cells containing MPs became larger and were elongated along the axis of the magnetic poles. Myogenin, a muscle-specific regulatory factor involved in controlling myogenesis, was formed earlier, and myotubes were seen earlier and more frequently in this group of myoblasts than in the other groups (cells alone without magnetic field, cells containing MPs but without magnetic field, and cells alone with magnetic field). Moreover, we succeeded in differentiation of early muscle cells with striated myofibrils in culture at 0.05 T. The precisely quantitative and stable stimulus induced by a magnetic field developed in the present study offers a new approach to elucidate the entire process of myoblast differentiation into myotubes.
40981262|The production of chimeric birds is an important tool for the investigation of vertebrate development, the conservation of endangered birds, and the development of various biotechnological applications. This study examined whether gamma ()-irradiation depletes endogenous primordial germ cells and enhances the efficiency of somatic chimerism in chickens. An optimal irradiation protocol for stage X embryos was determined after irradiation at various doses (0, 100, 300, 500, 600, 700, and 2,000 rad). Exposure to 500 rad of -irradiation for 73 s significantly decreased the number of primordial germ cells (P<0.0001). Somatic chimera hatchlings were then produced by transferring blastodermal cells from a Korean Oge into either an irradiated (at 500 rad) or intact stage X White Leghorn embryo. An analysis of feather color pattern and polymerase chain reaction-based species-specific amplification of various tissues of the hatchlings confirmed chimerism in most organs of the chick produced from the irradiated recipient; a lesser degree of chimerism was observed in the non-irradiated control recipient. In conclusion, the exposure of chick embryos to an optimized dose of -irradiation effectively depleted germ cells and yielded greater somatic chimerism than non-irradiated control embryos. This technique can be applied to interspecies reproduction or the production of transgenic birds.
4294140|Over recent years, interest in endothelial cell biology has increased dramatically with our ability to grow and study endothelial cells in vitro. While large veins and arteries remain a quick and convenient source of endothelial cells, the great morphological, biochemical and functional heterogeneity that endothelial cells express has necessitated the development of techniques to isolate microvessel endothelial cells from different tissues to create more realistic in vitro models. The majority of isolation procedures employ selective methods to enrich microvessel endothelial cells from tissue homogenates directly, or after a period in culture. These include sieving/filtration, manual weeding, isopycnic centrifugation, selective growth media, and the use of flow cytometry or magnetic beads coupled with specific endothelial cell markers. The establishment of pure endothelial cell populations is important for studying their biochemistry and physiology and there are many morphological, immunological and biochemical criteria which can be used to characterize human endothelial cells. These range from classical markers such as von Willebrand Factor and angiotensin-converting enzyme to novel markers like platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (CD31) and the expression of E-selectin on cytokine-activated endothelial cells.
40205876|Animal cell lines are important resources for research and diagnostic applications. Cross-contamination and misidentifcation of cell lines, however, can cause major problems for research (for example, false results that come from contamination cells may mislead the science). Hence, it is imperative to routinely monitor cell lines for identity and authenticity. Here, we extend our previous work on identification and authentication of animal cell culture by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and DNA sequencing. A PCR-based method for rapid identification and authentication of closely related cell lines was described. In this method, two new primers were designed based on high homology in the aldolase gene family. Used together with our previous primers, the combinations of primers were able to differentiate closely related species, including human from monkey and mouse from rat. This PCR assay provides a rapid, simple, sensitive, and cost-effective method for authentication of closely related cell lines.
4295611|Obesity, soft tissue wound healing, adipose tissue engineering, lipomas, and other physiological and pathophysiological conditions necessitate a clear understanding of the interactions between adipocytes and endothelial cells. Adipogenesis and angiogenesis are intimately integrated, despite not being in direct apposition with one another. However, underlying mechanisms have not been elucidated. In this study, the interactions of preadipocytes (PAs) and microvascular endothelial cells are investigated under varying defined O
40205953|Cissus quadrangularis Linn, has been implicated as therapeutic agent for enhancing bone healing. Though its osteogenic activity has been suggested, the underlying mechanism still remains unclear. In the present study, the effects of ethanol extract of C. quadrangularis (CQ-E) on osteoblast differentiation and function were analyzed using murine osteoblastic cells. The results indicated that mRNA expressions of osteoblast-related genes were not affected by the CQ-E treatment. However, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and the extent of mineralized nodules were significantly increased in treated cells compared with controls. The addition of an extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 inhibitor, a Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2/3 inhibitor and a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor resulted in significantly decreased ALP activity, preferentially by p38 MAPK inhibitor. These results suggested that CQ-E may regulate osteoblastic activity by enhancing ALP activity and mineralization process, and the increased ALP activity effect of CQ-E is likely mediated by MAPKdependent pathway.
40205835|Regenerative medicine therapies will allow in the future the transplant of cells of human origin in some diseases that until now have been incurable. The assurance of the safety and quality, especially from a microbiological point of view, is very important for these therapeutic products. Depending on the starting material, there are several sources of pathogen presence, mainly human viruses. Also, the use of feeders of animal origin as layers in which the stem cells can grow may permit the transmission of animal pathogens to these cells. However, cell sources are limited due to the low availability of spare in vitro fecundation human embryos and the low rate of success in the derivation of human stem cell lines. Thus, in several cases, it will be necessary to evaluate the possibility of removing or inactivating these microorganisms. In this paper, we summarize the main methods of viral clearance and we have provided an overview of the main features taking into account in the viral clearance techniques.
40663748|Although mechanisms of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) entry into bovine cells have been elucidated, little is known concerning pestivirus entry and receptor usage in ovine cells. In this study, we determined the entry mechanisms of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 in sheep fetal thymus cells. Both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 infections were inhibited completely by chlorpromazine, -methyl cyclodextrin, sucrose, bafilomycin A1, chloroquine, and ammonium chloride. Simultaneous presence of reducing agent and low pH resulted in marked loss of BVDV infectivity. Moreover, BVDV was unable to fuse with ovine cell membrane by the presence of reducing agent or low pH alone, while combination of both led to fusion at low efficiency. Furthermore, sheep fetal thymus cells acutely infected with BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 were found protected from heterologous BVDV infection. Taken together, our results showed for the first time that entry of both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 into ovine cells occurred through clathrin-dependent endocytosis, endosomal acidification, and low pH-dependent fusion following an activation step, besides suggesting the involvement of a common ovine cellular receptor during attachment and entry.
20172215| The effect of tea polyphenols on the release of chemical mediators, histamine and leukotriene B (LTB), from rat peritoneal exudate cells (PEC) was studied. Among polyphenols, (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) most strongly inhibited the histamine release from the cells stimulated with a calcium ionophore, A23187 or compound 48/80. Though (+)-catechin (C) and (-)-epicatechin (EC) had no effect, (-)-epigallocatechin (EGC) and (-)-epicatechin gallate (ECG) moderately inhibited the histamine release. Similarly, EGCG, ECG, and EGC inhibited LTB release from PEC, whereas C and EC were not effective. The magnitude of the inhibitory effect on the release of these mediators of tea polyphenols was in the order of EGCG &gt; ECG &gt; EGC. These results indicated an important role of the triphenol structure in the inhibitory activity. Therefore, the possible antiallergic effect of tea polyphenols can be expected. 
20616590|Colon adenocarcinoma is one of the most common fatal malignancies in Western countries. Progression of this cancer is dependent on tumor microenvironmental signaling molecules such as transforming growth factor- (TGF-) or acetylcholine (ACh). The present study was conducted to assess the influence of recombinant human transforming growth factor (rhTGF)-1 or ACh on nitric oxide (NO) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) secretion by three human colon adenocarcinoma cell lines: HT29, LS180, and SW948, derived from different grade tumors (Duke's stage). The cells were cultured in 2D and 3D (spheroids) conditions. Colon carcinoma cells exhibited different sensitivities to rhTGF-1 or ACh dependent on the tumor grade and the culture model. ACh exhibited significant inhibitory effects towards NO, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), and IL-1 secretion especially by tumor cells derived form Duke's C stage of colon carcinoma. rhTGF-1 also decreased NO, IL-1, and eNOS expression, but its effect was lower than that observed after the administration of ACh. The inhibition of NO and IL-1 production was more striking in 3D tumor spheroids than in 2D culture monolayers. Taken together, the TGF-1ACh axis may regulate colon carcinoma progression and metastasis by altering NO secretion and influence inflammatory responses by modulating IL-1 production.
23481759|Increasing evidence suggests that some Nlrp genes are crucial for oogenesis, folliculogenesis, and early embryonic development. Nlrp4e is one of seven copies of Nlrp4, which plays a putative role in the reproduction system in mice. Gene duplication is regarded as an important driving force behind the evolution of novel genes with new or altered functions. We investigated the role of Nlrp4e in oocyte and preimplantation embryos by determining its expression profile using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Nlrp4e mRNA accumulated during oogenesis. Moreover, Nlrp4e transcripts were upregulated during the two-cell stage and then declined sharply and became almost undetectable, which represents a crucial time for major embryonic genome activation in the mouse. Knockdown of Nlrp4e in fertilized eggs using RNA interference resulted in arrested development between the two-and eight-cell stages in a dose-dependent manner. However, targeted inhibition of Nlrp4e in germinal-vesicle-stage oocytes had no phenotypic effects on oocyte maturation. The above experiments were also carried out in parthenogenetic embryos to determine the effects of Nlrp4e in embryos without a paternal genome. The results of this study indicate that Nlrp4e, a maternal-zygotic-effect gene, may not be involved in oocyte maturation but may play a critical role in early embryogenesis.
40928186|Improved methods of cell culture from eye stalk, hepatopancreas, muscle, ovary, and hemocytes of shrimp (Penaeus vannamei) were established using synthetic media and shrimp muscle extract (SME). For hemocytes and ovarian cell cultures, Grace's insect medium supplemented with 10% (v/v) fetal bovine serum and 10% SME (v/v) showed enhanced attachment and proliferation of the cells. The hemocyte and ovarian cell cultures could be maintained for 48 and 66 days, respectively, and have been subcultured four and six times, respectively. Both ovary and hemocyte cell cultures contained primarily epithelial-like cells. Cells derived from ovary tissue grew preferably between 26C and 28C with 5% CO. Although the temperature preference of hemocyte cells was the same as ovarian cells, CO supplementation did not show any difference in the growth of hemocyte cells. When the shrimp were injected with lipopolysaccharide (8 g/g of shrimp) and hemolymph was drawn 24 h post-injection, the in vitro multiplicity of hemocytes dramatically improved. The growth of eye stalk, hepatopancreas, and musclederived cells was much less compared to ovarian cells and hemocytes under the conditions described above. The optimal culture conditions for ovarian cells and hemocytes were also different from that for eye stalk, hepatopancreas, and muscle cell culture. The proliferation efficiencies of primary cultures of hepatopancreas, eyestalk, and muscle cells were about 30, 12, and <7 d, respectively. The improved culture conditions described here, particularly for hemocytes and ovary, will be very useful for in vitro studies involving viruses infecting shrimp and in shrimp genomic studies.
4294180|We have previously shown that shaking the culture plates (SHAKE) of rabbit renal proximal tubule cells (RPTC) to maintain adequate aeration increased aerobic metabolism and decreased the induction of glycolysis compared to RPTC cultured under standard conditions (STILL). However, glycolysis in SHAKE RPTC remained elevated compared to glycolysis in proximal tubules in vivo. In the present study the contribution of culture medium sugar composition and concentration to glycolytic metabolism was assessed in RPTC. SHAKE and STILL RPTC cultured in 5 mM glucose contained lactate levels equivalent to the respective SHAKE and STILL RPTC cultured in standard culture medium which contains 17.5 mM glucose. Similarly, the activity of lactate dehydrogenase was unchanged by lowering the medium glucose concentration. Substituting 5 mM galactose for 5 mM glucose in the culture medium significantly reduced the lactate content of both SHAKE and STILL RPTC but had no effect on lactate dehydrogenase activity. Cell growth was equivalent under all culture conditions. Sensitivity to mitochondrial inhibition was determined for each culture condition by measuring cell death after exposure to the respiratory inhibitor antimycin A. The results showed a hierarchy of sensitivity to antimycin A (5 mM galactose SHAKE > 5 mM glucose SHAKE > 17.5 mM glucose SHAKE =17.5 mM glucose STILL), which was generally inversely correlated with the level of glycolysis as measured by lactate content (17.5 mM glucose STILL > 17.5 mM glucose SHAKE = 5 mM glucose SHAKE > 5 mM galactose SHAKE).
41417653|To study milk synthesis in dairy goat mammary gland, we had established an in vitro lactating dairy goat mammary epithelial cell (DGMEC) line. Mammary tissues of Guan Zhong dairy goats at 35 d of lactation were dispersed and cultured in a medium containing epithelial growth factor, insulin-like growth factor-1, insulin transferrin serum, and fetal bovine serum. Epithelial cells were enriched by digesting with 0.25% trypsin repeatedly to remove fibroblast cells and were identified as epithelial origin by staining with antibody against cytokeratine 18. The DGMECs displayed monolayer, cobble-stone, epithelial-like morphology, and formed alveolilike structures and island monolayer aggregates which were the typical characteristics of mammary epithelial cells. A onehalf logarithmically growth curve and cytoplasmic lipid droplets in these cells were observed. In this paper, we also studied the lactating function of DGMECs. Results showed that DGMECs could secrete lactose and -casein. Lactating function of the cells had no obvious change after 48 h treated by insulin, while prolactin could obviously raise the secretion of milk proteins and lactose.
4294199|A large bulk of experimental evidence (15) suggests that myogenic cell transfer can be regarded as a promising therapeutic approach in the cure of inherited pathologies. In particular, it has been shown that primary myoblasts obtained from embryonic or neonatal muscles allows the recovery of the normal phenotype in defective muscle tissues. The utilization of this approach in clinical settings still bears heavy limitations. Apart from the legal and ethical difficulties, the use of muscles obtained from aborted fetus is challenged by a large risk of rejection, due to the incompatibility between donor and recipient. In this context based on the genetic alteration and reimplanting of the patient's own satellite cells, appears an approach attractive. Myoblasts derived from satellite cells are the obligate candidates for experiments, but the production of sufficient cell numbers is a major problem. Local anesthetics [Bupivacaine (1-n-butyl-DL-piperidine-2-carboxylic acid-2, 6-dimethyl anilide hydrochloride) and related molecules] had been used to induce myofiber damage (and thus satellite cells proliferation) and thereby may represent a tool for increasing the yield of myoblasts from adult muscles (1,9,17). We will show that satellite cells obtained from adult muscles after bupivacaine injection can be transfected in vitro and that the transfected gene is expressed in vitro and in vivo, after reimplantation of the modified myoblasts in recipient muscles.
40205952|Wnt signaling has been demonstrated to have extensive roles during embryogenesis. The Wnt family is highly conserved. In mice, there are 19 Wnt genes. Dickkopf (Dkk), through its interactions with Wnt coreceptors, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP), Frizzled and Kremen, can act as a negative regulator to block the Wnt-signaling pathway. There are four Dkk genes in the human genome, and three in that of the mouse. Dkk1 is involved in a variety of craniofacial developmental processes and behaves as a strong head inducer and limb regulator. Dkk1 mutant mice are embryonic-lethal. Here, we investigated the effects of Dkk1 on the differentiation of murine ESCs in both the ESC and embryoid body (EB) states. The results demonstrate that Dkk1 overexpression can initiate the differentiation program of ESCs toward neuroectoderm. We believe this finding can augment our understanding of mouse ESC differentiation.
41511610|The objective of the study is to evaluate efficiency of in vitro isolation and myogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from adipose connective tissue (AD-MSCs), bone marrow (BM-MSCs), and skeletal muscle tissue (MC-MSCs). MSCs were isolated from adipose connective tissue, bone marrow, and skeletal muscle tissue of two adult 6-wk-old rats. Cultured MSCs were treated with 5-azacytidine (AZA) to induce myogenic differentiation. Isolated MSCs and differentiated cells were evaluated by immunocytochemistry (ICC), fluorescenceactivated cell sorting (FACS), PCR, and RT-PCR. ADMSCs showed the highest proliferation rate while BMMSCs had the lowest one. In ICC, isolated MSCs had strong CD90-and CD44-positive expression and negative expression of CD45, CD31, and CD34, while AZA-treated MSCs had strong positive desmin expression. In FACS analysis, AD-MSCs had the highest percentage of CD90-and CD44-positive-expressing cells (99% and 96%) followed by BMMSCs (97% and 94%) and MC-MSCs (92% and 91%). At 1 wk after incubation with AZA treatment, the peak of myogenin expression reached 93% in differentiated MCMSCs, 83.3% in BM-MSCs, and 77% in AD-MSCs. MSCs isolated from adipose connective tissue, bone marrow, and skeletal muscle tissue have the same morphology and phenotype, but AD-MSCs were the most easily accessible and had the highest rate of growth on cultivation and the highest percentage of stem cell marker expression. Moreover, although MC-MSCs showed the highest rate of myogenic differentiation potential and expression of myoblast markers, AD-MSCs and BM-MSCs still can be valuable alternatives. The differentiated myoblastic cells could be an available new choice for myoblastic auto-transplantation in regeneration medicine.
40663751|Because mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) do not contribute to the formation of extraembryonic placenta when they are injected into blastocysts, it is believed that mESCs do not differentiate into trophoblast whereas human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) can express trophoblast markers when exposed to bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) in vitro. To test whether mESCs have the potential to differentiate into trophoblast, we assessed the effect of BMP4 on mESCs in a defined monolayer culture condition. The expression of trophoblast-specific transcription factors such as Cdx2, Dlx3, Esxl, Gata3, Hand1, Mash2 and Plx1 was specifically upregulated in the BMP4-treated differentiated cells, and these cells expressed trophoblast markers. These results suggest that BMP4 treatment in defined culture conditions enabled mESCs to differentiate into trophoblast. This differentiation was inhibited by serum or leukemia inhibitory factor, which are generally used for mESC culture. In addition, we studied the mechanism underlying BMP4-directed mESC differentiation into trophoblast. Our results showed that BMP4 activates the Smad pathway in mESCs inducing Cdx2 expression, which plays a crucial role in trophoblast differentiation, through the binding of Smad protein to the Cdx2 genomic enhancer sequence. Our findings imply that there is a common molecular mechanism underlying hESC and mESC differentiation into trophoblast.
23353412|This study investigated the mechanisms underlying the cytotoxicity of the green algae Ulva fasciata Delile. U. fasciata extract (UFE) inhibited the growth of HCT 116 human colon cancer cells by 50% at a concentration of 200 g/ml. In addition, UFE stimulated the production of intracellular reactive oxygen species, an effect that was abolished by pretreatment with N-acetyl cysteine, which also inhibited the cytotoxic effects of UFE. UFE also induced morphological changes indicative of apoptosis, such as the formation of apoptotic bodies, DNA fragmentation, an increase in the population of apoptotic sub-G 1 phase cells, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization. Concomitant activation of the mitochondria-dependent apoptotic pathway occurred via modulation of Bax and Bcl-2 expression, resulting in disruption of the mitochondrial membrane potential and activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. This is the first report to demonstrate the cytotoxic effect of U. fasciata on human colon cancer cells and to provide a possible mechanism for this activity.
20172157|Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is characterized by multiple renal cysts that are lined by epithelium and filled with fluid. PKD may result from one of a number of factors, either inherited or environmental. In this study, we have compared two mouse models in which PKD results from a genetic cause. In the C57BL/6J-cpk model, the mutated gene is unknown. In the other model, an SV40 large T antigen transgene causes renal cysts. We examined cultured cells from the kidneys of these mouse models, comparing growth characteristics. Although several features of PKD lead one to expect that the epithelial cells lining the cysts would have an increased rate of proliferation in culture, we found that they did not. The implications of these findings are discussed.
4294754| We have isolated a conditionally transformed liver progenitor cell line with phenotypic similarities to both hepatoblasts (bipotent embryonic liver cells that give rise to hepatocytes and intrahepatic biliary epithelial cells) and liver epithelial cells (primitive hepatic cells isolated from adult livers capable of generating both hepatocytic and biliary lineages). Cell line L2039 was derived from E14 fetal mouse liver after transformation with temperature-sensitive SV-40 large T antigen. At 33 C, these cells have an epithelial morphology with a high nucleocytoplasmic ratio and express both hepatocytic and biliary genes, including albumin, -fetoprotein, glutamine synthetase, insulinlike growth factor II receptor, fibronectin and laminin, and cytokeratins 8 and 19, a set of markers characteristic for hepatoblasts. The presence of cytokeratin 14, vimentin, and several oval-cell antigens link cell line L2039 to nonparenchymal liver epithelial cell populations thought to contain progenitor cells. Serum-free, hormonally defined media conditions and extracellular matrix requirements were determined for growth and differentiation of this cell line. During culture on type IV collagen at 39 C, L2039 cells cease dividing and demonstrate hepatocytic differentiation with the assumption of a hepatocytelike morphology and glucocorticoiddependent regulation of liver-specific genes, including albumin, -fetoprotein, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, and liver-enriched transcription factors. The number of albumin-positive cells increases during culture at 39 C, indicating that L2039 cells convert from a prehepatocytic to a hepatocytic phenotype. Under conditions specific for hepatocytic differentiation, C/EBPs were expressed and differentially regulated, with C/EBP and C/EBP upregulated early and C/EBP only slightly expressed after 7 d, indicating that C/EBP may not be a crucial factor in commitment to the hepatocytic phenotype. 
20869551|It has been speculated that the homeopathic treatment of sperm cells in order to improve semen quality could be promising. However, few data is available and its use in spermatozoa requires investigation. It is well established that mitochondrial membrane potential is an important viability parameter of spermatozoa and it is intimately related to reproductive efficiency. In this manner, new technologies in order to improve the activity of sperm cells and, finally, the fecundity of swine herds are of extremely importance. Due to the lack of knowledge of homeopathic treatment effect on spermatozoa, the aim of the present study was to verify the effect of three different homeopathic treatments on viability of boar sperm cells. Three homeopathic treatments composed by Pulsatila CH6, Pulsatila and Avena CH6, Avena CH6 and one control treatment (sucrose) were added to diluted boar semen, which were cooled for 24 or 48 h. Interestingly, no positive effect of homeopathic treatments was observed over semen viability. However, it was demonstrated that the 24 h of cooling storage provided more viable sperm cells when compared to the 48-h period. This effect of storage period on sperm viability was assessed by intact plasmatic membrane, intact acrosome and mitochondrial membrane potential evaluation.
4295435|The availability of small-diameter blood vessels remains a significant problem in vascular reconstruction. In small-diameter blood vessels, synthetic grafts resulted in low patency; the addition of endothelial cells (EC) has clearly improved this parameter, thereby proving the important contribution of the cellular component to the functionality of any construct. Because the optimal source of cells should be autologous, the adaptation of existing methods for the isolation of all the vascular cell types present in a single and small biopsy sample, thus reducing patient's morbidity, is a first step toward future clinical applications of any newly developed tissue-engineered blood vessel. This study describes such a cell-harvesting procedure from vein biopsy samples of canine and human origin. For this purpose, we combined preexisting mechanical methods for the isolation of the three vascular cell types: EC by scraping of the endothelium using a scalpel blade, vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC), and perivascular fibroblasts according to the explant method. Once in culture, cells rapidly grew with the high level of enrichment. The morphological, phenotypical, and functional expected criteria were maintained: EC formed cobblestone colonies, expressed the von Willebrand factor, and incorporated acetylated low-density lipoprotein (LDL); VSMC were elongated and contracted when challenged by vasoactive agents; perivascular fibroblasts formed a mechanically resistant structure. Thus, we demonstrated that an appropriate combination of preexisting harvesting methods is suitable to isolate simultaneously the vascular cell types present in a single biopsy sample. Their functional characteristics indicated that they were suitable for the cellularization of synthetic prosthesis or the reconstruction of functional multicellular autologous organs by tissue engineering.
4295708|We have established well-differentiated, polarized cultures of monkey oviductal epithelium. Oviductal epithelial cells were isolated by protease digestion and plated on collagen-coated, porous cell culture inserts. About 5 d after plating, cells developed detectable transepithelial electrical resistance of up to
4295607|A cell line, BPE-1, was derived from a parthenogenetic 8-d in vitro-produced bovine blastocyst that produced a cell outgrowth on STO feeder cells. The BPE-1 cells resembled visceral endoderm previously cultured from blastocysts produced by in vitro fertilization (IVF). Analysis of the BPE-1 cells demonstrated that they produced serum proteins and were negative for interferon-tau production (a marker of trophectoderm). Transmission electron microscopy revealed that the cells were a polarized epithelium connected by complex junctions resembling tight junctions in conjunction with desmosomes. Rough endoplasmic reticulum was prominent within the cells as were lipid vacuoles. Immunocytochemistry indicated the BPE-1 cells had robust microtubule networks. These cells have been grown for over 2 yr for multiple passages at 1:10 or 1:20 split ratios on STO feeder cells. The BPE-1 cell line presumably arose from embryonic cells that became diploid soon after parthenogenetic activation and development of the early embryo. However, metaphase spreads prepared at passage 41 indicated that the cell population had a hypodiploid (2n = 60) unimodal chromosome content with a mode of 53 and a median and mean of 52. The cell line will be of interest for functional comparisons with bovine endoderm cell lines derived from IVF and nuclear transfer embryos.
4295177|A three-dimensional (3D) integrated rotating-wall vessel cell-culture system was used to evaluate the interaction between a human prostate cancer cell line, LNCaP, and microcarrier beads alone, or microcarrier beads previously seeded with either prostate or bone stromal cells. Upon coculture of LNCaP cells with microcarrier beads either in the presence or in the absence of prostate or bone stromal cells, 3D prostate organoids were formed with the expected hormonal responsiveness to androgen, increased cell growth, and prostate-specific antigen production. In this communication, we define permanent phenotypic and genotypic changes of LNCaP cells upon coculture with microcarrier beads alone, or with microcarrier beads previously seeded with either prostate or bone stromal cells. Most notably, we observed selective genetic changes, i.e., chromosomal losses or gains, as evaluated by both conventional cytogenetic and comparative genomic hybridization, in LNCaP sublines derived from the prostate organoids. Moreover, the derivative LNCaP cells appear to have altered growth profiles, and exhibit permanent and stable changes in response to androgen, estrogen, and growth factors. The derivative LNCaP sublines showed increased anchorage-independent growth rate, and enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential when inoculated orthotopically in castrated athymic mice. Our results support the hypothesis that further nonrandom genetic and phenotypic changes in prostate cancer epithelial cells can occur through an event that resembles "adaptive mutation" such as has been described in bacteria subjected to nutritional starvation. The occurrence of such permanent changes may be highly contact dependent, and appears to be driven by specific microenvironmental factors surrounding the tumor cell epithelium grown as 3D prostate organoids.
4294870|The gypsy element of Drosophila melanogaster is the first retrovirus identified in invertebrates. Its transposition is controlled by a host gene called flamenco (flam): restrictive alleles of this gene maintain the retrovirus in a repressed state while permissive alleles allow high levels of transposition. To develop a cell system to study the gypsy element, we established four independent cell lines derived from the Drosophila strain SS, which contains a permissive allele of flamenco, and which is devoid of transposing copies of gypsy. The ultrastructural analysis of three SS cell lines revealed some remarkable characteristics, such as many nuclear virus-like particles, cytoplasmic dense particles, and massive cisternae filled with a fibrous material of unknown origin. Gypsy intragenomic distribution has been compared between the three cell lines and the original SS fly strain, and revealed in two of the cell lines an increase in copy number of a restriction fragment usually present in active gypsy elements. This multiplication seems to have occurred during the passage to the cell culture. Availability of SS cell lines should assist studies of gypsy transposition and infectivity and might be useful to produce high amounts of gypsy viral particles. These new lines already allowed us to show that the Envelope-like products of gypsy can be expressed as membrane proteins.
20172229| In a previous paper, we showed that a cell line derived from hemocytes of the cabbage armyworm, Mamestra brassicae (R-cell) was a thousand times as resistant to rotenone as that from ovaries of the same species (S-cell). The S-cells were killed by rotenone at concentrations higher than 10 M, while R-cells at higher than 10 M. When the R-cells were cultured in the medium containing 10 M rotenone, the ability of rotenone to kill the S-cells was lost in the used medium. Also, when rotenone was incubated in the medium conditioned with R-cells, it lost its cell killing activity. It became evident that rotenone-inactivating substance(s) were produced in cells and stored in water-soluble form or liberated into the medium. The substance(s) were inactivated by heat treatment. 
4295072| A new concept in cryopreservation solution design was developed that focuses on the use of an intracellular-type, hypothermic maintenance medium coupled with additives that inhibit cryopreservation-induced apoptosis. Hypo-Thermosol (HTS), a hypothermic (4 C) maintenance medium utilized in the long-term storage of cell, tissue, and organ systems, was tested for cryoprotective capability on a renal cell line (Madin-Darby Canine Kidney cells). HTS and HTS derivatives were tested against conventional cell culture medium (Dulbecco's Minimal Essential medium, DME) as the cryoprotectant carrier solution because (1) cells are exposed to an extended state of hypothermia during the freeze-thaw process, and (2) HTS is designed to protect cells exposed to a hypothermic state. Cells separately cryopreserved in either HTS or DME + 5% dimethyl surfoxide (DMSO) yielded equivalent 24-h postthaw survival (~30%) and 5-d recovery (~90%). Cells cryopreserved in CryoStor CS 5, a HTS derivative containing 5% DMSO, yielded ~75% 24-h postthaw survival and recovery to 100% within 3 d. DNA gel electrophoresis was performed to determine the mechanisms of cell death contributing to cryopreservation failure. Cells preserved in DME (DMSO-free) died primarily through necrosis, whereas cells preserved in either DME + 5% DMSO, HTS, or CryoStor CS 5 died through a combination of apoptosis and necrosis. This observation led to the inclusion of an apoptotic inhibitor designed to improve cryopreservation outcome. MDCK cells cryopreserved in CryoStor CS 5 supplemented with an apoptotic inhibitor (Caspase I Inhibitor V), hereafter termed CryoStor CS 5N, resulted in a 24-h postthaw survival and recovery rate exceeding that of any other cryoprotective solution tested (85%). We conclude that: (1) the use of HTS (a dextran-based, intracellular-type solution) without DMSO can yield postthaw viability equivalent to that of standard DMSO-based cryopreservation methods, (2) postthaw viability can be significantly increased through the use of an intracellular-type solution in conjunction with DMSO, (3) the use of HTS allows for cryopreservation to be accomplished with reduced levels of cryoprotectants, and (4) the regulation of apoptosis is essential for the improvement of cryopreservation outcome. 
20869527|Hyperoxia exposure is a significant risk factor for the impaired alveolarization characteristic of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Type II alveolar epithelial cells (AECIIs) may serve as "alveolar stem cells" to transdifferentiate into type I alveolar epithelial cells (AECIs). Here, we show that hyperoxia is capable of inducing transdifferentiation of AECIIs in premature rats in vitro. Hyperoxia-induced transdifferentiation was characterized by typical morphological changes, inhibition of cellular proliferation, decline in expression rate of Ki67, accumulation of cells in the G phase of the cell cycle, increased expression of AECI-specific protein aquaporin 5, and decreased expression of AECII-associated protein surfactant protein C. These results suggest that hyperoxia may induce transdifferentiation of AECIIs into AECIs and the transdifferentiation may be responsible for repairing early lung injury.
4294475| Rat liver parenchymal cells were isolated by EDTA perfusion and were subsequently purified by Percoll centrifugation. The freshly isolated liver cells had a mean viability of 95% as judged by trypan blue exclusion. Isolated liver parenchymal cells were then stored at 0 C for up to 1 wk in University of Wisconsin solution (UW). During this hypothermic preservation, the viability was only slightly reduced to 92% after 1 d and to 85% after 3 d at 0 C. Thereafter, the viability decreased rapidly. After cold storage for up to 3 d, it was possible to use the parenchymal liver cells either in short-term suspension or in cell culture. The attachment efficiency in cell culture was the same for freshly isolated liver cells (84%) and after 2 d cold preservation (81%). The cytochrome P450 content and the enzyme activities of soluble epoxide hydrolase, UDP-glucuronosyl transferase, phenol sulfotransferase, and glutathione S-transferase were not significantly different between freshly isolated cells and cells after 3 d of hypothermic preservation. Furthermore, freshly isolated and intact liver cells stored for 3 d were used in the cell-mediated Salmonella mutagenicity test as a metabolizing system. Both fresh and stored liver parenchymal cells metabolized benzo(a)pyrene, 2-aminoanthracene, and cyclophosphamide to their ultimate mutagens. Thus, it was clearly demonstrated that EDTA-isolated liver parenchymal cells retain their xenobiotic metabolizing capacity after short-term hypothermic preservation for up to several days and, therefore, may help to maximize the usefulness of rarely available liver parenchymal cells such as those from humans and help to reduce the number of experimental animals required for pharmacological and toxicological in vitro investigations. 
23279340|Primary bovine mammary epithelial cells (pbMEC) are often used in cell culture to study metabolic and inflammatory processes in the udder of dairy cows. The most common source is udder tissue from biopsy or after slaughter. However, it is also possible to culture them from milk, which is noninvasive, repeatable and yields less contamination with fibroblasts. Generally, not much is known about the influence of cell origin and cell culture techniques such as cryopreservation on pbMEC functionality. Cells were extracted from milk and udder tissue to evaluate if milk-derived pbMEC are a suitable alternative to tissue-derived pbMEC and to test what influence cryopreservation has. The cells were cultivated for three passages and stored in liquid nitrogen. The relative gene expression of the five target genes kappa-casein, lingual antimicrobial peptide (LAP), lactoferrin, lysozyme (LYZ1) and the prolactin receptor normalised with keratin 8 showed a tendency to decrease in the tissue cultures, but not in the milk-derived cultures, suggesting a greater influence of the cultivation process on tissue-derived cells, freezing lowered expression levels in both cultures. Overall expression of LAP and LYZ1 tended to be higher in milk cells. Cholesterol efflux was measured to compare passages one to seven in milk-derived cells. Passage number did not alter the efflux rate (p0.05). We showed for the first time that the extraction of pbMEC from milk can be a suitable alternative to tissue extraction.
24596461|Odontogenesis is the result of the reciprocal interactions between epithelialmesenchymal cells leading to terminally differentiated odontoblasts. This process from dental papilla mesenchymal cells to odontoblasts is regulated by a complex signaling pathway. When isolated from the developing tooth germs, odontoblasts quickly lose their potential to maintain the odontoblast-specific phenotype. Therefore, generation of an odontoblast-like cell line would be a good surrogate model for studying the dental mesenchymal cell differentiation into odontoblasts and the molecular events of dentin formation. In this study, immortalized dental papilla mesenchymal cell lines were generated from the first mouse mandibular molars at postnatal day 3 using pSV40. These transformed cells were characterized by RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and analyzed for alkaline phosphatase activity and mineralization nodule formation. One of these immortalized cell lines, iMDP-3, displayed a high proliferation rate, but retained the genotypic and phenotypic characteristics similar to primary cells as determined by expression of tooth-specific markers and demonstrated the ability to differentiate and form mineralized nodules. Furthermore, iMDP-3 cells had high transfection efficiency as well as were inducible and responded to BMP2 stimulation. We conclude that the establishment of the stable murine dental pipilla mesenchymal cell line might be used for studying the mechanisms of dental cell differentiation and dentin formation.
4294443|To study the growth regulation of epithelial cells as a sheet, I developed an outgrowth culture system for normal human ectocervical epithelial (NHCE) cells, whereby outgrowths from tissue explants increase their radius in a constant rate over time. Cinematographic observation revealed that throughout the outgrowths the cells coordinately migrate and proliferate. To date, all 59 specimens examined have shown similar growth characteristics, with explant size not causing any difference in the growth rate;
4294298|Most of the pancreatic exocrine epithelium consists of acinar and intralobular duct (ductular) cells, with the balance consisting of interlobular and main duct cells. Fragments of mouse acinar/ductular epithelium can be isolated by partial digestion with collagenase and purified by Ficoll density gradient centrifugation. We investigated whether previously developed culture conditions used for duct epithelium would result in the selective survival and proliferation of ductular cells from the acinar/ductular fragments. The fragments were cultured on nitrocellulose filters coated with extracellular matrix. After 2 to 4 wk the niters were covered with proliferating cells resembling parallel cultures of duct epithelium by the following criteria: protein/DNA ratio, light and electron microscopic appearance, the presence of duct markers (carbonic anhydrase [CA] activity, CA II mRNA, the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator), the near absence of acinar cell markers (amylase and chymotrypsin), a similar polypeptide profile after sodium dodecyl sulfate-poly-acrylamide gel electrophoresis, and the presence of spontaneous and secretin-stimulated electrogenic ion transport. Both duct and ductular epithelia formed fluid-filled cysts in collagen gels and both could be subcultured. We conclude that acinar/ductular tissue gives rise to ductular cells in culture by some combination of acinar cell death and/or transdifferen-tiation to a ductular phenotype, accompanied by proliferation of these cells and preexisting ductular cells. These cultures may be used to investigate the properties of this part of the pancreatic duct system, from which most of the pancreatic juice water and electrolytes probably originates.
20869592|The study was performed to explore the effects of adult bovine male serum (MS), female serum (FS), and castrated male serum (C-MS) on myogenic satellite cells (MSCs) proliferation and differentiation into myotubes or into adipocyte-like cells (ALCs). MSC proliferation and differentiation was highest in the medium supplemented with MS, implying the important role of male steroid hormones. Myogenin and desmin were highly upregulated in cells cultured in MS-supplemented medium. In contrast, lipid accumulation in ALCs was highest in the medium supplemented with FS. Fatty acid transporter (FAT/CD36) was upregulated in FS-supplemented cultures. Detection of higher FAT/CD36 inducing fatty acids (arachidic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid) in FS compared with MS and C-MS suggests that these fatty acids may have influenced the enhanced formation of lipid droplets in ALCs. Effect of sex steroids on cell proliferation and cell growth of bovine MSCs and C2C12 cell in C-MS was greater than charcoaldextran-treated fetal bovine serum (CDFBS). Concluding the above facts, the results indicate that each gender-specific bovine serum constitutes of different component, which leads to unique effects on cell behavior.
4295529|Human urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) is a serine protease that converts plasminogen to plasmin. It is produced and secreted by a variety of different human cells in vivo and in vitro. We have studied human diploid kidney cell (HKC) cultures prepared from neonatal kidney tissue and cultures of purified populations of HKC to determine which cells synthesize and secrete uPA into the culture medium. Antibodies against cell specific antigens and uPA were used to correlate specific kidney cell types with uPA synthesis. In addition, secretion of uPA activity into growth and uPA production media was determined for each cell type and cultures containing a mixture of cell types. The results of these studies demonstrated that glomerular visceral epithelial and kidney tubular epithelial cells synthesize and secrete uPA into the culture medium.
23481710|This investigation was performed to evaluate the influence of the static magnetic field up to 15 mT on the viability and proliferation rate of rat bone marrow stem cells. Cells from passage 5 were trypsinized, and a cell suspension was prepared. The cells were counted and cultured in 25-cm 2 flasks. They were incubated for 1 d, washed with phosphate-buffered saline, and then exposed with different intensities of static magnetic field (4, 7, and 15 mT) at different exposure times (24, 48, 72, and 96 h). Cells were then washed with phosphate-buffered saline, trypsinized, and a cell suspension was prepared separately from each flask. To investigate the viability and proliferation rates of treated cells, staining with Trypan blue and counting were performed with an optical microscope. The mean number of whole cells and living cells was considered as proliferation and survival rates, respectively. Increasing of intensity and time of static magnetic field exposure decreased the viability percent and proliferation rate in treated groups compared with corresponded control. However, reduced cell viability, where this occurred, is exclusively due to apoptosis since necrosis is never observed by others.
20172277|Methods for monitoring cell line identification and authentication include species-specific immunofluorescence, isoenzyme phenotyping, chromosome analysis, and DNA fingerprinting. Most previous studies of DNA fingerprinting of cell lines have used restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. In this study, we examined the utility of an alternative and simpler method of cell line DNA fingerprinting-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of fragment length polymorphisms. Fourteen human cell lines previously found by other methods to be either related or disparate were subjected to DNA fingerprinting by PCR amplification of selected fragment length polymorphism loci. Cell identification patterns by this method were concordant with those obtained by isoenzyme phenotyping and restriction fragment length polymorphism-DNA fingerprinting, and were reproducible within and between assays on different DNA extracts of the same cell line. High precision was achieved with electrophoretic separation of amplified DNA products on high resolution agarose or polyacrylamide gels, and with fragment length polymorphism (FLP) loci-specific "allelic ladders" to identify individual FLP alleles. Determination of the composite fingerprint of a cell line at six appropriately chosen fragment length polymorphism loci should achieve a minimum discrimination power of 0.999. The ability of PCR-based fragment length polymorphism DNA fingerprinting to precisely and accurately identify the alleles of different human cell lines at multiple polymorphic fragment length polymorphism loci demonstrates the feasibility of developing a cell line DNA fingerprint reference database as a powerful additional tool for future cell line identification and authentication.
4294331|Cell-to-cell communication via gap junctions has played a fundamental role in the orderly development of multicellular organisms. Current methods for measuring this function apply mostly to homotypic cell populations. The newly introduced Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting (FACS) method, albeit with some limitations, is simple, reliable, and quantitative in measuring the dye transfer via gap junctions in both homotypic and heterotypic cell populations. In the homotypic setting, the result in dye transfer from the FACS method is comparable to the scrape-loading and microinjection methods. Using this FACS method, we observed a decline of cell-to-cell communication in transformed and cancer cells. We also observed a differential degree of communication between two heterotypic cell populations depending on the direction of dye transfer.
4295371|To explore a new agent for inhibiting leukemic cells, we investigated the effects of rare earth compounds (lanthanum chloride and cerium chloride) on the growth and apoptosis of HL-60 and NB4 cells. The growth of HL-60 and NB4 cells was tested by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazole-2-yl)-2,5-biphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) colorimetric assay. The apoptosis was measured by light microscopy, flow cytometry, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate (dUTP) nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method. The effect of LaCl
4295171|LA7 rat mammary tumor cells stimulate the proliferation, in culture, of three normal epithelial cell types, namely mouse mammary, rat mammary, and mouse thymic cells. Gap-junctional communication between LA7 feeders and mouse mammary cells was demonstrated by microinjection of lucifer yellow, which traveled from LA7 to the surrounding mouse mammary cells. The amount of
20172143| Homeostasis of intracellular calcium (
40205926|Insulin-secreting pancreatic beta cells play a key role in the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus. Potential new treatments for this disease include cell-replacement therapies using embryonic stem cells (ESCs). We have generated ESCs from a transgenic mouse model, mouse insulin 1 promoter (MIP) green fluorescent protein (GFP) mice, in which embryonic and adult beta cells are genetically tagged with GFP. The aim of the present study is to examine the differentiation potential of MIP-GFP ESCs in the microenvironment of the kidney capsule. The ESCs grew rapidly and formed a teratoma with GFP-expressing beta-like cells present in clusters that formed a cord-like structure similar to what is seen in the embryonic pancreas. These structures also included glucagon-expressing alpha cells and amylaseexpressing acinar cells. Electron microscopic analysis showed insulin-like granules in columnar epithelium with microvilli adjacent to exocrine-like granule-containing cells. The MIP-GFP ESCs should be a useful research tool to study the differentiation capacity of ESCs toward pancreatic lineages.
40663807|The maintenance of pluripotency of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) requires a high efficiency of self-renewal. During in vitro propagation, however, spontaneous differentiation occurs frequently, and there is also a risk of chromosomal changes. In this study, we assessed the properties of hESCs after long-term culture at ambient air and 5% oxygen growth conditions. The hESC lines were grown for up to 42 and 18 mo in normoxic and hypoxic conditions, respectively, and their proliferation; expression of Oct4, SSEA1, Nanog, and Notch 1; karyotype; telomerase activity; and differentiation potential in vitro were evaluated. In contrast to cultures at 20% oxygen, where the central zones of the colonies underwent spontaneous differentiation, during exposure to 5% oxygen, the hESC colonies maintained a homogenous and flat morphology that was consistent with the presence of Oct4-positive undifferentiated phenotype. Irrespective of oxygen concentration, the undifferentiated cells expressed high levels of Nanog and Oct4 transcripts, normal karyotype, and high telomerase activity. When assayed for differentiation potential, they yielded derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers. Our data thus indicate that hypoxic exposure has the capacity to sustain enhanced long-term self-renewal of hESCs. The hESC lines described in the current paper can be obtained for research purposes from the Laboratory for Stem Cell Research, Aalborg University.
4295085| Increasing concerns over the effects of environmental estrogens on wildlife and humans have highlighted the need for screening systems to assess potentially estrogenic effects of test compounds. As a result, in vitro screening methods such as cell proliferation assays using the estrogen-responsive human breast cancer cell line, MCF-7, have been developed. The present study describes an alternative in vitro approach for the assessment of such xenoestrogens, based on estrogenic rescue of MCF-7 cells from antiestrogen-induced cytotoxicity. This method measures the ability of various estrogenic compounds to compete with a known estrogen-receptor-mediated antihormonal drug, 4-hydroxytamoxifen, using the 1-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-3,5-diphenylformazan (MTT) assay to assess mitochondrial activity. Because 4-hydroxytamoxifen treatment of cells results in a dramatic decrease in mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity which is directly related to their estrogen-receptor content, inhibition of this effect with estrogenic compounds represents an estrogen-receptor interaction, or estrogenic rescue. The estrogenic compounds tested include a weak xenoestrogen, bisphenol A (BPA), and two biological estrogens, 17- and 17-estradiol. Competitive inhibition of 4-hydroxytamoxifen-induced cytotoxicity by BPA was compared to that of the biological estrogens. The results indicate that the biological estrogens can successfully compete with the antiestrogen in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the assay is sensitive enough to detect estrogenic rescue by even the very weak xenoestrogen, BPA, albeit at high BPA concentrations. This simple in vitro method could be used as an alternative or second-line screen for potential xenoestrogens. 
40205848|The primary culture of neonatal mice cardiomyocyte model enables researchers to study and understand the morphological, biochemical, and electrophysiological characteristics of the heart, besides being a valuable tool for pharmacological and toxicological studies. Because cardiomyocytes do not proliferate after birth, primary myocardial culture is recalcitrant. The present study describes an improved method for rapid isolation of cardiomyocytes from neonatal mice, as well as the maintenance and propagation of such cultures for the long term. Immunocytochemical and gene expression data also confirmed the presence of several cardiac markers in the beating cells during the long-term culture condition used in this protocol. The whole culture process can be effectively shortened by reducing the enzyme digestion period and the cardiomyocyte enrichment step.
4294241|This study reports the establishment of
4295624| In this study, the progenitor cells isolated from the human dental pulp were used to study the effects of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid-soluble dentin extract (DE) on their differentiation and mineralization to better understand tissue injury and repair in the tooth. Mineralization of the matrix was increasingly evident at 14, 21, and 28 d after treatment with a mineralization supplement (MS) (ascorbic acid [AA], -glycerophosphate [-GP]) and MS + DE. Real-time polymerase chain reaction results showed type I collagen upregulation after the addition of MS + DE at 7 d. Alkaline phosphatase was downregulated after the mineralization became obvious at 14 d. Bone sialoprotein was shown to be upregulated in the mineralized cell groups at all time points and dentin sialophosphoprotein after 7 d. Core binding factor a 1 was upregulated by the treatment of MS and DE at 7, 14, and 21 d. These results indicated that the MS of AA, -GP, and DE synergistically induced cell differentiation of pulp progenitor cells into odontoblast-like cells and induced in vitro mineralization. 
4294577|We are studying the regulation of ciliated cell differentiation using an in vitro model of tracheal regeneration. Previously, we reported that removal of growth stimulating compounds such as epidermal growth factor (EGF) and cholera toxin reduced DNA synthesis and cell number while increasing ciliated cell differentiation (Clark et al., 1995). This result suggested that the induction of growth arrest may stimulate terminal differentiation of airway epithelial cells into ciliated cells. Transforming growth factor
23279459|Endometrial cancer is a major problem for women but only a small number of comprehensively characterized cell models are available for studies. Here, we established a new cell line derived from a Stage IIIc 1 Grade 2 endometrial adenocarcinoma. The cell line, designated LHY-821, was characterized using growth curve, karyotyping, immunohistochemical staining, immunoblotting, drug sensitivity assay, invasion assay, and xenografting in nude mice. LHY-821 has a doubling time of about 46 h and a colony-forming efficiency of approximately 71 %. These cells expresse high levels of progesterone receptor but not estrogen receptor and are sensitive to medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA). LHY-821 also expresses pan-cytokeratin, PTEN, p53, -catenin, IGF-1, and IGF-2. In addition, karyotype analysis revealed that LHY-821 possessed a near diploid karyotype including 6q-, 10p-, Xq-, 13q+, 17p+, and Triplo-12. LHY-821 showed highly tumorigenicity in nude mice (100 %) and weak invasiveness. Chemosensitivity tests showed that LHY-821 was sensitive to both carboplatin and paclitaxel. LHY-821 is an immortalized cell line which had survived more than 80 serial passages; it may provide a novel tool to study the molecular mechanism and potential treatment for endometrial cancer.
4294598|A sensitive lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay was modified to determine the cytolytic activity of Bacillus thuringiensis CryIC and CryIAc delta endotoxins to viable collagenase-dissociated midgut epithelial cells (MEC) from larvae of Spodoptera frugiperda and Spodoptera exigua. The MEC preparations from these Spodoptera sp. consisted predominantly of columnar cells (65-75%) and goblet cells (25-35%). Time course microscopy experiments indicated that only the columnar cells became swollen during CryIC toxin incubation. Also, comparative cytotoxicity studies were run with cell lines of nonmidgut origin established from S. frugiperda (SF21AE) and S. exigua (SEUCR1A). Optimum conditions for the cytotoxicity assay were similar for MEC and cell lines of both species, and were met in an assay in which 0.1-ml cell concentrations (
20172276| Removal of competence factors insulin and pituitary extract from the culture medium, concomitant with the addition of picomolar concentrations of the late-G inhibitor transforming growth factor-beta, effectively arrested cell cycle progression of normal human keratinocytes prior to their entry into the DNA synthesis phase; arrest continued for a minimum of 36 h following removal of unbound inhibitor and subsequent addition of factor-deficient medium. To demonstrate the reversibility of transforming growth factor-beta-induced arrest, two dissimilar cell populations were recruited to synthesize DNA in a predictable and reproducible manner; whereas the reinstatement of omitted competence factors induced noncycling cells to begin synthesizing DNA within 24 h, addition of keratinocyte-conditioned medium prompted an immediate progression of late-G cells into S phase. Studies to determine the extent that autocrine signaling regulates cell cycle progression revealed that nontransformed keratinocytes produce an endogenous factor required for DNA replication and that production of this progression factor required competence factors insulin and pituitary extract. Keratinocyte progression factor recruited late-G cells into S phase within 1-2 h, reversed transforming growth factor-beta-induced arrest in the presence of bound inhibitor, and elicited a calcium mobilization response consistent with receptor-mediated signaling. Hence, these studies demonstrate that G progression of nontransformed keratinocytes into S phase requires an endogenous progression factor and suggest that this factor may direct G progression by modulating the activity of a calcium-dependent kinase. 
4294463|An in vitro organ culture system was established to support growth of corpora allata from the cockroach Diploptera punctata. During a 1-wk incubation in L-15B medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and 10% cockroach hemolymph, adult male corpora allata exhibited a cycle of de novo DNA synthesis followed by cell division. The number of S-phase cells and metaphase cells per corpus allatum were counted from whole-mount monolayers after labeling in vitro with 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and exposure to colchicine, respectively. While both FBS and cockroach hemolymph were essential for proliferation of allatal cells, the growth-promoting effect of insect hemolymph was not species-specific and adult female hemolymph was more potent than hemolymph from adult males. Furthermore, DNA synthesis of corpus allatum cells was stimulated in vitro by 20-hydroxyecdysone. This sensitive assay system will be of immense utility in the search for allatal growth factors.
4295481| SW982 cells are characterized by expression of inflammatory cytokine and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) genes and by their response to dexamethasone at different cell densities. They express genes encoding interleukin (IL)-I; IL-6; transforming growth factor-; intercellular adhesion molecule-1; cycloxygenase (COX)-2; and MMPs, including MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-13, and MT1-MMP; tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2; and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs-4. Expression of all the genes examined was induced with 2 ng/ml IL-1 at low cell density. The cells, however, failed to express tumor necrosis factor-, COX-1, and MMP-9, regardless of the presence of IL-1. Dexamethasone significantly reduced IL-1, IL-6, COX-2, and MMP-1 expression at high cell density. The results suggest that SW982 cells are a useful tool for studying the expression of inflammatory cytokine or MMP genes. 
20172228|The purpose of this study was characterizing the phototoxic action of protoporphyrin and cellular protection mechanisms, as studied on the cellular level. In this process, active oxygen is involved. As a biological system, rat hepatocyte short-term and primary cultures were used. Phototoxicity of protoporphyrin could be observed, after previous absorption of protoporphyrin to membrane structures. Damaging of several cell organelles occurred, such as mitochondria and lysosomes. Peroxisomes were not affected. Coated vesicles located at the periphery of the cells' interior suggested that protoporphyrin absorption is mediated by an active uptake (endocytosis), as well as passive diffusion. Lipid peroxidation played a role in protoporphyrin phototoxicity. Cellular protection mechanisms such as superoxide dismutase and the scavenger glutathione (GSH) protected the cells from active oxygen toxicity. In conclusion, protoporphyrin entered the cells by diffusion and endocytosis. Previous adsorption to the membrane structures was necessary for the expression of protoporphyrin phototoxicity. However, active oxygen itself could not be demonstrated. Lipid peroxidation was involved in cell-damaging processes. Mechanisms of protoporphyrin phototoxicity on the cellular level were studied. Rat hepatocyte primary and short-term cultures proved to be suitable in vitro systems for studying biochemical and morphological effects on the cellular level.
4294994|VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) overproduction has been identified as a major factor underlying pathological angiogenesis in vivo, including such conditions as psoriasis, macular degeneration, and tumor proliferation. Endothelial cell tyrosine kinase receptors, KDR and Flt-1, have been implicated in VEGF responses including cellular migration, proliferation, and modulation of vascular permeability. Therefore, agents that limit VEGF-cellular interaction are likely therapeutic candidates for VEGF-mediated disease states (particularly agents blocking activity of VEGF
4295152| Remodeling of extracellular matrix involves a number of steps including the recruitment, accumulation, and eventual apoptosis of parenchymal cells as well as the production, organization, and rearrangement of extracellular matrix produced by these cells. The culture of fibroblasts in three-dimensional gels made of type I collagen has been used as a model of tissue contraction which characterizes both wound repair and fibrosis. The current study was designed to determine the effect of initial collagen concentration on the ability of fibroblasts to contract collagen gels and on cell survival. Native type I collagen was extracted from rat tail tendons and used to prepare collagen gels with varying collagen concentrations (0.75-2.0 mg/ml). Human lung fibroblasts (HFL-1) were cast into the gels and cultured in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium with 0.1% fetal calf serum for 2 wk. The gel size, collagen content, and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) content were determined. Gels prepared with an initial concentration of 0.75 mg/ml contracted more rapidly and to a smaller final size than gels prepared from 2 mg/ml initial collagen concentration (final size 7.1 versus 36.4% of initial size, P < 0.01). There was no significant degradation of the collagen in the gels under either condition. Hence, the dramatically increased contraction of the lower density gels resulted in a higher final density (P < 0.01). Cell density was estimated from DNA content. In low initial density gels, the final DNA content was significantly less than that in higher initial density gels (0.73 versus 1.88 g/gel, P < 0.05). This was accompanied by an increased percentage of apoptotic cells at day 14 (43.3 versus 34.1%, P < 0.05). If the gels were maintained in the attached state which largely prevents contraction, apoptosis was significantly reduced, suggesting that contraction rather than matrix composition was a requirement for the increased apoptosis. In summary, these findings indicate that the initial matrix composition can lead to differing outcomes during fibroblast-mediated wound contraction. 
20869533|The Puntius denisonii colloquially and more popularly referred to as Miss Kerala is a subtropical fish belonging to the genus Puntius (Barb) and family Cyprinidae. Two cell lines PDF and PDH were developed from the caudal fin and heart of P. denisonii, respectively. The cell lines were optimally maintained at 26C in Leibovitz-15 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. A diploid count of 50 chromosomes at passage 50 was observed in both the cell lines. The high growth potential of the cell lines was reflected from the cell doubling time of 28 and 30 h of PDF and PDH cell lines, respectively. The viability of the PDF and PDH cell lines was 70% and 76%, respectively, after 4 mo of storage in liquid nitrogen (196C). The origin of the cell lines was confirmed by the amplification of 653 bp fragments of cytochrome oxidase subunit I of mitochondrial DNA genes.
4295095|The production of recombinant secreted alkaline phosphatase protein in virally infected insect cells was studied in shaker flask and high aspect rotating-wall vessel (HARV) culture. Two commonly used cell lines, Spodoptera frugiperda Sf-9 (Sf-9) and a nonaggregating isolate of the Trichoplusia ni BTI-Tn-5B1-4 (Tn-5B1-4) cell line, Trichoplusia ni Tn5B1-4-NA (Tn-5B1-4-NA), were used and monitored for 120-h postinfection. Different responses to culture in the HARV were seen in the two cell lines. While the Sf-9 cell line was able to produce slightly greater amounts of recombinant protein in the HARV than in shaker flask controls, the Tn-5B1-4-NA cell line produced significantly lesser amounts in the HARV than in the shaker flasks. Both cell lines exhibited longer life spans and longer periods of protein production in HARV culture than in shaker flask culture, presumably due to lower levels of shear encountered in the HARV. The important difference was in the protein production rate responses of the two cell lines. While the protein production rates of Sf-9 cells were comparable in both HARV and shaker flask cultures, the protein production rates of Tn-5B1-4-NA cells were much lower in HARV culture than in shaker flask cultures. The conclusion is drawn that cell line-specific adaptation to the HARV strongly influences recombinant protein production.
20869523|We have recently shown that a multi-mineral extract from the marine red algae, Lithothamnion calcareum, suppresses colon polyp formation and inflammation in mice. In the present study, we used intact human colon tissue in organ culture to compare responses initiated by Ca supplementation versus the multi-mineral extract. Normal human colon tissue was treated for 2 d in culture with various concentrations of calcium or the mineral-rich extract. The tissue was then prepared for histology/immunohistochemistry, and the culture supernatants were assayed for levels of type I procollagen and type I collagen. At higher Ca concentrations or with the mineral-rich extract, proliferation of epithelial cells at the base and walls of the mucosal crypts was suppressed, as visualized by reduced Ki67 staining. E-cadherin, a marker of differentiation, was more strongly expressed at the upper third of the crypt and at the luminal surface. Treatment with Ca or with the multi-mineral extract influenced collagen turnover, with decreased procollagen and increased type I collagen. These data suggest that calcium or mineral-rich extract has the capacity to (1) promote differentiation in human colon tissue in organ culture and (2) modulate stromal function as assessed by increased levels of type I collagen. Taken together, these data suggest that human colon tissue in organ culture (supporting in vivo finding in mice) will provide a valuable model for the preclinical assessment of agents that regulate growth and differentiation in the colonic mucosa.
23481767|To evaluate the different traits of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) isolated from osteosarcoma (OS) and normal bone marrow (BM) induced by bone-morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2). MSCs from implanted osteosarcoma or femur bone marrow were isolated and cultured. Differentiation potency was verified and phenotypes were evaluated by flow cytometry. Increased or decreased expressions of BMP-2 were delivered by adenovirus and lentivirus vector, respectively. Expressions of VEGF, EMMPRIN, and MMP-9 were examined. Cell cycle, apoptosis, invasiveness, and proliferation assays were performed between the transfected groups and controls. Increased BMP-2 induced over-expression of VEGF, EMMPRIN, and MMP-9 in OS- and BM-MSCs both intra- and extra-cellularly. Decreased BMP-2 expression induced inhibition of the factors. Increased BMP-2 also induced less population of cells at G1 phase, more apoptotic cells, more cells that invade through Transwell membrane, and faster proliferation in OSMSC compared to those in BMMSC. BMP-2 induced higher expression of tumorigenic factors, which could be responsible for promoting the proliferation and aggressiveness of OSMSC over BMMSC.
4294925|We studied the effect of the ras oncogene on the growth kinetics, morphology, cytoskeletal structure, and tumorigenicity of the widely used NRK-52E rat kidney epithelial cell line and two H-ras oncogene-transformed cell lines, H/1.2-NRK-52E (H/1.2) and H/6.1-NRK-52E (H/6.1). Population doubling times of NRK-52E, H/1.2, and H/6.1 cells were 28, 26, and 24 h, respectively, with the transformed cells reaching higher saturation densities than the parent cells. NRK-52E cells had typical epithelial morphology with growth in colonies. H/1.2 and H/6.1 cell colonies were more closely packed, highly condensed, and had increased plasma membrane ruffling compared to parent cell colonies. NRK-52E cells showed microfilament, microtubule, and intermediate filament networks typical of epithelial cells, while H/1.2 and H/6.1 cells showed altered cytoskeleton architecture, with decreased stress fibers and increased microtubule and intermediate filament staining at the microtubule organizing center. H/1.2 and H/6.1 cells proliferated in an in vitro soft agar transformation assay, indicating anchorage-independence, and rapidly formed tumors in vivo with characteristics of renal cell carcinoma, including mixed populations of sarcomatoid, granular, and clear cells. H/6.1 cells consistently showed more extensive alterations of growth kinetics, morphology, and cytoskeleton than H/1.2 cells, and formed tumors of a more aggressive phenotype. These data suggest that analysis of renal cell characteristics in vitro may have potential in predicting tumor behavior in vivo, and significantly contribute to the utility of these cell lines as in vitro models for examining renal epithelial cell biology and the role of the ras proto-oncogene in signal transduction involving the cytoskeleton.
4294544| A chimeric Adenovirus-Simian Virus 40 (AdSV40) containing the large T antigen was used to transform rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts. A rheumatoid synovial fibroblast cell line was established by infection of primary rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial fibroblasts at Passage 10 with AdSV40 recombinants followed by selection in semisoft agarose cultures. The transformed cells grew anchor independent, exhibited continuous proliferation (>65 passages) in monolayer culture, and formed multiple visible foci. The transformed synovial fibroblasts showed expression of the simian virus 40 large T antigen in the nucleus as determined by immunofluorescence staining. In addition, indirect immunofluorescence staining demonstrated that the transformed cells stained specifically with a fibroblast-specific antibody 1B10. Studies involving expression of metalloproteinases showed that collagenase and stromelysin were induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), and such an induction was repressed by dexamethasone typical of primary RA fibroblasts. Levels of mRNAs for IL-1, TNF-, and c-jun were increased by PMA, and the mRNA transcripts of these genes were also repressed by addition of dexamethasone to the culture media. Our results indicate that transformed RA synovial fibroblasts display a similar gene expression pattern in response to PMA and dexamethasone as observed for untransformed primary RA synovial fibroblasts. These transformed rheumatoid arthritis synovial fibroblast cells provide an ideal cell culture model in which to test the efficacy of novel arthritis gene therapy reagents. 
4294212|The effect of tumor necrosis factor alpha on vascular endothelial cells was analyzed using a collagen-embedded, three-dimensional culture system, focusing on angiogenesis and expression of cell adhesion molecules. When the endothelial cells were cultured between two layers of type-I collagen gel, they reorganized into a network of branching and anastomosing tubular structures. Once the structure was formed, the cells did not undergo further division. Addition of tumor necrosis factor alpha at 10 to 500 U/ml to the overlaid culture medium inhibited this tube-forming process and enhanced their survival, whereas it suppressed cell growth in monolayer. To test its effect on the expression of cell adhesion molecules, the collagen was digested, and the dispersed cells were stained with anti-intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and endothelial-leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 monoclonal antibodies. Tumor necrosis factor alpha upregulated the expressions of both molecules for an extended period of time. Even in the absence of tumor necrosis factor alpha, the cells embedded in collagen matrices expressed small amounts of these adhesion molecules. These results indicate that endothelial cells display phenotypic changes in collagen matrices and modulatory response to tumor necrosis factor alpha.
4295374|To catalog factors that may contribute to the completion of myogenesis, we have been looking for molecular differences between BC3H1 and C2C12 cells. Cells of the BC3H1 tumor line, though myogenic, are nonfusing, and withdraw from the cell cycle only reversibly, whereas cells of the C2C12 line fuse, differentiate terminally, and express several muscle-specific gene products that BC3H1 cells do not. Relative to C2C12 cells, BC3H1 cells underaccumulated cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 and underaccumulated transcripts for p21, GADD45, CDO, decorin, osteopontin, H19, fibronectin, and thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1). Levels of accumulation of H19, tsp-1, and larger isoforms of fibronectin messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) were found to increase in response to expression of myogenic regulatory factors as shown by their accumulation in differentiated myogenically converted 10T1/2 cells but not in 10T1/2 fibroblasts. BC3H1s accumulated a temperature-insensitive, geldanamycin-sensitive, misfolded form of p53 incapable of transactivating a p53 responsive reporter, consistent with underexpression of p21, GADD45, and tsp-1. BC3H1 and C2C12 cells were similar with respect to upregulation of p27 protein, downregulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1) protein, upregulation of retinoblastoma (Rb) mRNA, and nuclear localization of hypophosphorylated Rb. Cells of both lines expressed the muscle-specific 1b isoform of MEF2D. Although nonfusing in the short term, after more than 18 d in differentiation medium, some cultures of BC3H1 cells formed viable multinucleated cells in which the nuclei did not reinitiate synthesis of DNA in response to serum. Our findings suggest participation of tsp-1 and specific isoforms of fibronectin in myogenesis and suggest additional avenues of research in myogenesis and oncogenesis.
40205916|The lack of a suitable flat epithelial preparation isolated directly from the freshwater fish gill has led, in recent years, to the development of cultured gill epithelia on semipermeable supports. To date, their minimal capacity to actively transport ions has limited their utility as ionoregulatory models. The current study describes a new method of culturing gill epithelia consisting either of an enriched population of pavement (PV) cells or a mixed population of PV cells and mitochondria-rich (MR) cells from the gills of adult rainbow trout. Although the cell culture approach is similar to the double-seeded insert (DSI) technique described previously, it makes use of Percoll density centrifugation to first separate populations of PV and MR cells, which are then seeded on cell culture supports in varying proportions on successive days so as to produce preparations enriched in one or the other cell types. Based on rhodamine staining, the MR cell-rich epithelia exhibited a threefold higher enrichment of MR cells compared to traditional DSI preparations. In general, MR cell-rich epithelia developed extremely high transepithelial resistances (TER; <30 k cm) and positive transepithelial potentials (TEP) under symmetrical conditions (i.e., L15 medium on both apical and basolateral sides). Apical exposure of cell cultures to freshwater reduced TER and produced a negative TEP in all the epithelial preparations, although MR cell-rich epithelia maintained relatively high TER and negative TEP for over 2 d under these asymmetrical conditions. Measurement of unidirectional Na fluxes and application of the Ussing flux ratio criterion demonstrated active Na uptake in PV cell-rich and MR cell-rich epithelia under both symmetrical and asymmetrical conditions. In comparison, Ca uptake and Na/K-ATPase activity were significantly elevated in MR cell-rich preparations relative to the traditional DSI or PV cell-rich cultures under symmetrical conditions. This new methodology enhances our ability to tailor cultured gill epithelia on semipermeable supports with different proportions of PV cells and MR cells, thereby illuminating the ionoregulatory functions of the two cell types.
4294226|The present study was undertaken to quantitate the effects of atmospheric air and normal middle ear gas on cultured fibroblasts obtained from normal rabbit middle ear mucosa. The cells were exposed to three different gas compositions:
4295360|A novel macaque cell line (J3K) with epithelial phenotypes was spontaneously established from a kidney specimen of a Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata). Its population doubling level reached more than 500, and it was regarded as an established permanent cell line. J3K cells have transformed cell phenotypes such as loss of contact inhibition and anchorage-independent cell growth. Unlike other monkey adherent cell lines, J3K had no SV40 large T antigen. After establishment, cells have constantly expressed telomerase activity, whereas telomere length has been maintained. No mutations in the coding regions of the p53 complementary deoxyribonucleic acid were detected in the late-passaged cells. J3K, a novel transformed epithelial cell line, will be useful material for the comparative study of human and other primate cellular aging as well as cancer cell biology.
23279344|The present study was carried out to understand the co-culture effect of C2C12 and 3T3-L1 preadipocyte cells on calpain, caspase, and heat shock protein (Hsp) systems. Calpains, caspases, and heat shock proteins play critical roles in the growth and development of mammalian cells. Cells were co-cultured using transwell inserts with a 0.4-m porous membrane to separate C2C12 and 3T3-L1 preadipocyte cells. Each cell type was grown independently on the transwell plates. Following cell differentiation, inserts containing 3T3-L1 cells were transferred to C2C12 plates and inserts containing C2C12 transferred to 3T3-L1 plates. Following co-culture for 24 and 48 h, the cells in the lower well were harvested for analysis. Calpains include -calpain, m-calpain, and their specific inhibitor calpastatin. The expression pattern of -calpain did not change in the co-cultured C2C12 and 3T3-L1 cells, whereas m-capain mRNA expression significantly reduced in the 48-h co-cultured 3T3-L1 cells. Calpastatin mRNA expression significantly increased in the 48-h co-cultured C2C12 cells. Caspase-7 mRNA expression did not change in the 24- and 48-h co-cultured C2C12 and 3T3-L1 cells. Caspase-3 mRNA expression significantly reduced in the 24- and 48-h co-cultured 3T3-L1 cells; caspase-9 mRNA had a significant reduction only at 48 h, whereas caspase-9 mRNA expression significantly increased in the 48-h co-cultured C2C12 cells. Hsp27 and Hsp90 mRNA expressions are significantly reduced in the 24- and 48-h co-cultured C2C12 and 3T3-L1 cells, whereas Hsp70 mRNA expression significantly increased in the 48-h co-cultured 3T3-L1 cells. The co-culture reflects three-dimensional views of C2C12 and 3T3-L1 cell types as in vivo, which is quite distinct from the one-dimensional monocultured C2C12 and 3T3-L1 cells.
4295658|Adenocarcinoma of the prostate comprises 95% of all prostate cancer. Commercially available primary cultures of "normal" prostate epithelial cells, PrECs, have been used as a convenient model to investigate neoplastic transformation. Here PrECs were characterized for the expression of lineage- and developmental-specific markers cytokeratin (CK) 8 and 18, p63, chromogranin A, TMEPAI, S100P, NKX 3.1, ANKH, and FN 1 as well as androgen receptor and prostate-specific antigen by Western blot and Northern blot analyses, immunohistochemistry, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and quantitative real-time PCR. Immunohistochemical staining detected PrECs positive in varying degrees for p63, CK 8, and CK 18, with only the rare cell being positive for chromogranin A. The PrECs also tested positive for p63 protein by Western blot analysis. RT-PCR with PrEC cDNA showed products for FN 1 and S100P but not for ANKH and androgen receptor or prostate-specific antigen. This profile of markers in PrEC cells is consistent with that expected for pubertal prostate epithelial cells.
4294312|Development and maturation of the genital tract of the moth, Heliothis virescens, takes place within a few days in the pupal stage. The insect steroid hormone, 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E), essential during this period, stimulated testis sheath and fat body tissue to secrete factors that, in turn, stimulated growth and development of pupal spermducts and genital imaginai discs in vitro. Factors could be extracted in aqueous solution from tissues incubated for 24 h in media containing
40205870|Culture of airway epithelial cells is a useful model to investigate physiology of airway epithelia and airway disease mechanisms. In vitro models of airway epithelial cells are established for various species. However, earlier published method for isolation and culture of equine tracheal epithelial cells requires significant improvements. In this report, the development of a procedure for efficient isolation, characterization, culture, and passage of primary equine tracheal epithelial cells are described. Epithelial cells were isolated from adult equine trachea by exposing and stripping the mucosal epithelium from the adjacent connective tissue and smooth muscle. The tissue was minced and dissociated enzymatically using 0.25% trypsin-ethylenedia-minetetraacetic acid (EDTA) solution for 2 h at 37 C. Cells were collected by sieving and centrifugation, and contaminating fibroblasts were removed by differential adhesion. This procedure resulted in a typical yield of 110 cytokeratin-positive epithelial cells per gram tracheal lining tissue. Viability was 95% by trypan blue exclusion and isolates contained approximately 94% cytokeratin-positive cells of epithelial origin. Cells seeded at a density of 6.910 cells/cm in serum-free airway epithelial cell growth medium formed monolayers near confluency within a week. Confluent cells were dissociated using dispase and first passages (PI) and second passages (P2) were successfully established in serum-free medium. Collagen coating of tissue culture flask was not required for cell adhesion, and cultures could be maintained at the level of P2 over 30 d. In the present study, we could establish a high-yield protocol for isolation and culture of equine tracheal epithelial cells that can serve for in vitro/ex vivo studies on the (patho-) physiology of equine airway disease as well as pharmacological and toxicological targets relevant to airway diseases.
40602786|Osteopontin (OPN) is a secreted glycoprotein implicated to function in cancer development and metastasis.Although elevated expression of OPN are observed in cancer cells of various types, in some cases, only the cells in the stromal region surrounding the tumor express OPN, suggesting distinct functional roles for this protein derived from host cells and from cancer cells. To provide a model for addressing the functions and mechanisms of hostderived OPN in cancer progression and metastasis, a cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma cell line (ONSC) that lacks the OPN gene, Sppl, was established. This line of cells was derived from a squamous cell carcinoma that developed in a female, OPN-null mouse subjected to twostage skin carcinogenesis. Morphologically, ONSC cells resemble epithelial cells, and they express the epithelial markers, Kl, K14, and p63, as confirmed by immunohistochemical analyses. Genomic analyses indicate the presence of mutated H-Ras and p53 genes. ONSC cells form colonies in soft agar and, subcutaneously injected into athymic nude mice, develop into squamous cell carcinomas that metastasize to the lungs. Lacking OPN expression, these squamous cell carcinoma cells provide a model to address the function of host OPN in the context of cancer progression and metastasis.
4294164|This communication describes a relatively novel cell culture technique for the isolation of cerebrovascular endothelial cells from three strains of inbred mice. Cerebrovascular endothelial cells were identified by their morphology, the presence of Factor VIII-related antigen and angiotensin-converting enzyme, and the uptake of acetylated low-density lipoprotein. Cloned cerebrovascular endothelial cells were found to maintain their differentiated state and diploid genotype through 15 serial passages. The morphology and growth characteristics of these cells were found to be altered when cultured on different extracellular matrices. The isolation and cloning methods described are simple and highly reproducible.
20869600|In the developing cerebellum, proliferation of granular neuroprogenitor (GNP) cells lasts until the early postnatal stages when terminal maturation of the cerebellar cortex occurs. GNPs are considered cell targets for neoplastic transformation, and disturbances in cerebellar GNP cell proliferation may contribute to the development of pediatric medulloblastoma. At the molecular level, proliferation of GNPs is regulated through an orchestrated action of the SHH, NOTCH, and WNT pathways, but the underlying mechanisms still need to be dissected. Here, we report that expression of the E2F1 transcription factor in rat GNPs is inversely correlated with cell proliferation rate during postnatal development, as opposed to its traditional SHH-dependent induction of cell cycle. Proliferation of GNPs peaked at postnatal day 3 (P3), with a subsequent continuing decrease in proliferation rates occurring until P12. Such gradual decline in proliferating neuroprogenitors paralleled the extent of cerebellum maturation confirmed by histological analysis with cresyl violet staining and temporal expression profiling of SHH, NOTCH2, and WNT4 genes. A time course analysis of E2F1 expression in GNPs revealed significantly increased levels at P12, correlating with decreased cell proliferation. Expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p18 Ink4c , a target of E2F1, was also significantly higher at P12. Conversely, increased E2F1 expression did not correlate with either SMAC/DIABLO and BCL2 expression profiles or apoptosis of cerebellar cells. Altogether, these results suggest that E2F1 may also be involved in the inhibition of GNP proliferation during rat postnatal development despite its conventional mitogenic effects.
4294717|We have successfully established monolayer and organotypic culture techniques for growing human oral and esophageal epithelial cells. Cells in monolayer culture were grown in serum-free medium, modified from techniques previously reported by our group. The organotypic cultures were grown in a defined medium supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum. Oral and esophageal cells were maintained in keratinocyte basal medium with pituitary extract and other supplements, and 0.05 mM calcium for 7-9 and 9-11 passages, respectively. Both cell types had similar morphology by phase contrast microscopy. When confluent, the cells were predominantly small, basaloid, and uniform and interspersed with larger, differentiated cells. By immunohistochemistry, both cell types in monolayer were positive to AE1, AE3, and 34BE12 antibodies to keratins of stratified epithelia. Oral epithelial cells in monolayer also were positive to 35BH11, representative of simple epithelial keratins, while esophageal cells were not. The esophageal cells were focally positive to K13, while the oral cells were negative. Both were negative for K19. When comparing monolayer to organotypic cultures and to in vivo specimens, there was a significant difference in the expression of keratins. Using organotypic cultures, AE1, AE3, and 34BE12 were strongly positive in both oral and esophageal cells, similar to in vivo tissues. In contrast to monolayers, both were also focally positive for K19. Esophageal cells were strongly positive for K13, while the oral cells were mildly but uniformly positive. Both were negative for keratins of simple epithelia. These two cell culture techniques offer unique opportunities to study the pathobiology, including carcinogenesis, of stable cell systems from the oral and esophageal epithelia.
23481711|We have previously shown that the cell sorting process of animal pole cells (AC) and vegetal pole cells (VC) from Xenopus gastrulae is considered to involve two steps: concentrification and polarization. In this study, we addressed the question of what specified the spatial relationship of the AC and VC clusters during the process. First, we examined the inhibitory or facilitatory treatment for myosin 2 activity during each of the two steps. The aggregates treated with Y27632 or blebbistatin during the concentrification step showed a cluster random arrangement, suggesting the prevention of the cell sorting by inhibition of myosin 2. Meanwhile, the treatment with a Rac1 inhibitor, NSC23766, during the same step resulted in promotion of the fusion of the AC clusters and the progression of the cell sorting, presumably by an indirect activation of myosin 2. On the other hand, the treatments with any of the three drugs during the polarization step showed that the two clusters did not appose, and their array remained concentric. Thus, the modulation of cell contraction might be indispensable to each of the two steps. Next, the activin/nodal TGF- signaling was perturbed by using a specific activin receptor-like kinase inhibitor, SB431542. The results revealed a bimodal participation of the activin/nodal TGF- signaling, i.e., suppressive and promotive effects on the concentrification and the polarization, respectively. Thus, the present in vitro system, which permits not only the cell contraction-mediated cell sorting but also the TGF--directed mesodermal induction such as cartilage formation, may fairly reflect the embryogenesis in vivo.
4295425|A three-dimensional (3D) clinostat is a device for multidirectional G force generation. By controlled rotation of two axes, a 3D clinostat cancels the cumulative gravity vector at the center of the device and produces an environment with an average of 10
4295249|We have developed a culture system for guinea pig alveolar type II cells using an epithelium-denuded human amnion membrane as a substratum. The differentiated morphology was maintained for 3 wk by both air-interface feeding and immersion feeding when type II cells were cultured on the basement membrane side of the amnion with fibroblasts on the opposite side (coculture). Functionally, high levels of surfactant protein B (SP-B) and C (SP-C) messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) were expressed even after the 3-wk cultivation and surfactant protein A mRNA was detected on day 10 of the culture. The differentiation was also maintained when fibroblasts were cultured on lower chambers of the culture plates (separate culture). In contrast, culture of type II cells without fibroblasts (monoculture) could not preserve the mature morphology. When the monoculture was supplemented with keratinocyte growth factor or hepatocyte growth factor, a monolayer of rather cuboidal type II cells with apical microvilli was maintained. However, the percent area of lamellar bodies in these cells was significantly less than that in freshly isolated type II cells, and mRNA expressions of SP-B and SP-C were also considerably suppressed. These findings suggest that other growth factors or combinations of these factors are necessary for the maintenance of the differentiated phenotype. As substratum, a permeable collagen membrane or a thin gel layer of Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm mouse sarcoma extracts did not preserve the mature characteristics. This culture system using an acellular human amnion membrane may provide novel models for research in type II cells.
4294032|A growth-inhibiting activity was identified in supernatants of the neoplastic V79 Chinese hamster cell line based on its ability to inhibit the proliferation of the same cell line. The partially purified activity, provisionally termed "growth inhibiting factor" (GIF) activity, inhibited the growth of a wide variety of human tumor cells, but not various normal human fibroblasts. This species-nonspecific activity was reversible, saturable, and highly potent in tumorigenic cell lines, and was noted in both monolayer culture and in soft agar. The inhibitory activity of GIF was also exhibited in a chemically defined serum-free medium supplemented with insulin and transferrin. GIF activity was stable to acid, heat, trypsin, and dithiothreitol but sensitive to alpha-chymotrypsin. The pattern of growth modulation by GIF on V79 cells was apparently different from those exhibited by bifunctional peptides such as transforming growth factor-beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-1-alpha. In addition, GIF activity cannot be ascribed to these cytokines based on the physicochemical and immunologic properties. Although GIF has yet to be purified to homogeneity, these data suggest that GIF might be a novel growth regulator which has a critical role in regulating growth of V79 cells. The growth modulation of tumor cells by this tumor-derived growth inhibiting activity suggested the presence of an autocrine growth regulatory mechanism even in tumor cells.
4294195|Using an automated cell analyzer system, the effect of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), endothelial acidic fibroblast growth factor (a-FGF), platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), and recombinant human insulinlike growth factor (IGF) on the motility and morphology of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK), rat hepatomas, C
4295073|The in vitro host range of a newly isolated baculovirus from the diamondback moth Plutella xylostella was tested against six lepidopteran cell lines. Two baculoviruses with wide host ranges from the alfalfa looper Autographa californica (A. californica multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus, AcMNPV) and the celery looper Anagrapha falcifera (AfMNPV) were also included in this study for comparative purposes. PxMNPV replicated in all six cell lines and produced occlusion bodies, with HV-AM1 and TN-CL1 cells producing the highest viral titers and greatest number of occlusion bodies. There was no significant replication of AcMNPV and AfMNPV in the HZ-FB33 cell line and thus no production of occlusion bodies. The restriction endonuclease profiles of the three baculoviruses showed similarities but could be readily distinguished from each other. Either HV-AM1 or TN-CL1 would be suitable cell lines for the in vitro production of PxMNPV.
20172250|Simian virus-transformed human cells, WI-38 VA13A, showed a dose-dependent induction of apoptosis and reduction in cell numbers after exposure to sodium butyrate. Apoptosis was confirmed by ApopTag staining, isolation of apoptotic envelopes, and immunofluorescent staining with an antibody specific for apoptotic envelopes. Examination of the cell cultures by phase contrast and fluorescent microscopy revealed the presence of enlarged cells that displayed a more flattened morphology and morphological changes in the nucleus of cells exposed to sodium butyrate. Cell proliferation assays showed control and sodium butyrate cultures were synthesizing DNA and excluded any cytotoxic effects of sodium butyrate. Flow cytometry results indicated an increase in the number of aneuploid cells following sodium butyrate treatment. There was a decrease in the percentage of cells in G2/M in the diploid populations, but an increase in the percentage of cells in G2/M in aneuploid populations. This human in vitro model system suggests a mode of action for the therapeutic effects of sodium butyrate, which have been observed in the topical treatment of neoplastic cells and reversal of symptoms in ulcerative colitis: namely, the induction of apoptosis.
23279460|Estrogen regulates a variety of physiological processes, including mammary gland growth, morphogenesis of the mammary gland, proliferation and differentiation, and elevating the expression of milk proteins. Many nuclear phosphorylated proteins such as pStat5 and mTOR regulate milk protein synthesis. But the detail of milk protein synthesis controlled at the transcript level and posttranslational level is not well-known. To contribute to the understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying estrogen action on the dairy cow mammary epithelial cells (DCMECs), nuclear phosphorylated proteins regulated by estrogen in DCMECs were identified. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization/time of flight mass spectrometry were used to identify the changes of nuclear phosphorylated proteins in DCMECs treated with estrogen. Seven proteins were identified differentially up-expressed in DCMECs after 24-h estrogen exposure: including glycyl-tRNA synthetase, previously reported in milk protein synthesis of DCMECs, belonging to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family; proteins involved in other cellular functions, such as translation initiation factors, GTP-binding nuclear proteins, heat-shock proteins, and proteins belonging to ubiquitin-proteasome system. This screening reveals that estrogen influences the levels of nuclear phosphorylated proteins of DCMECs which opens new avenue for the study of the molecular mechanism linking to milk synthesis.
4294165|Human fetal skin fibroblasts (TIG-3S) were found to migrate into a denuded area in a cell monolayer when cultured in both serum-depleted and serum-supplemented media, unlike adult-donor skin fibroblasts which migrated well only when cultured in serum-supplemented medium. Therefore, a series of experiments was carried out to determine whether autocrine factors are involved in their migration. The migration of TIG-3S cells in serum-depleted medium was suppressed by the addition of suramin, a factor with growth factor antagonist properties, which suggests that growth factors are important for cell migration. The suramin-induced inhibition was reversed completely by adding excess basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) to the culture medium and partially by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Treatment with neutralizing anti-PDGF antibody did not suppress TIG-3S cell migration, whereas neutralizing anti-bFGF antibody did, which indicates that bFGF is an autocrine and PDGF a paracrine factor involved in cell migration. Next, an experiment was performed to ascertain whether the extracellular matrix is involved in TIG-3S cell migration. Monensin, an inhibitor of extracellular matrix secretion, inhibited cell migration, which was reversed by adding excess type I collagen, but not excess plasma fibronectin. In addition, further evidence for the involvement of collagen was provided by the observation that ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoate, a specific inhibitor of collagen synthesis, suppressed cell migration. These results suggest that the autonomous migration of TIG-3S human fetal skin fibroblasts is mediated by bFGF and type I collagen, which they produce and secrete.
4294476|The occurrence of vascular domains with specific biological and pharmacological characteristics suggests that smooth muscle cells in different arteries may respond differentially to a wide range of environmental stimuli. To determine if some of these vessel-specific differences may be attributable to mechano-sensitive gene regulation, the influence of cyclical stretch on the expression of actin isoform and
23481777|Although the incidence of cancer rises with age, tumor growth is often slowed in older hosts. The B16/F10 melanoma cell line is commonly used in murine models of age-related tumor growth suppression. We wished to determine if the growth pattern and gene expression of B16/10 tumors grown in aged mice could be simulated in 3D collagen matrices derived from aged mice. Outcome measures were tumor size in vitro and gene expression of the key growth regulatory molecules: growth hormone receptor (GHR), IL-10R, IL-4R, and IL-6. B16/F10 tumors were grown in 2025-mo-old C57/BL6 male mice. Tumor sizes ranged from 30 to 4,910 mg in vivo. Tumors from a subset of mice were removed after euthanasia, and equivalent amounts of each tumor were placed in aged 3D collagen and grown for 5 d. Tumor sizes in aged 3D collagen correlated highly with their original tumor size in vivo. Gene expression changes noted in vivo were also maintained during tumor growth in aged 3D collagen in vitro. The relative expression of GHR was increased, IL-10R was unchanged, and IL-4R and IL-6 were decreased in the larger tumors relative to the smaller tumors in vitro, in a pattern similar to that noted in vivo. We propose that 3D matrices from aged mice provide an in vitro model of tumor growth that correlates highly with tumor size and expression of key regulatory molecules in vivo.
20869555|Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are characterized by their ability of self-renewal paired with the capacity to differentiate into multiple mesenchymal cell lineages. Numerous studies have reported beneficial effects of MSCs in tissue repair and regeneration. After in vivo administration, MSCs home to and engraft to injured tissues. However, the molecular mechanisms are not clear. Osteopontin (OPN) has been found to be elevated in response to injury and inflammation and its role on cell mobilization has been studied. Therefore, the facts imply that OPN may contribute to the recruitment of MSCs to the sites of injury. In this study, using transwell assay, we found that rat bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (rMSCs) migrated towards OPN in a concentration-dependent manner. To further examine the involved molecular mechanisms for OPN-induced rMSCs migration, RT-PCR, and Western blot were used to detect the expressions of integrin 1 and CD44v6, the two receptors of OPN. OPN promoted integrin 1 mRNA and protein expression while CD44v6 mRNA level was not altered. Blockade of integrin 1 also inhibited OPN-induced rMSCs migration, indicating the possible involvement of integrin 1 in OPN-induced migration in rMSCs. Our data have shown for the first time that OPN increases integrin 1 expression in rMSCs and promotes rMSCs migration through the ligation to integrin 1.
23279339|Caspases are key enzymatic components of the intracellular apoptotic machinery, and their role in mammalian systems is often studied using fluoromethylketone (FMK) inhibitors. Despite many advantages of such approach, efficiency of the inhibitor and membrane permeability speed are often questioned. This work therefore focuses on an exact evaluation of caspase-3 FMK inhibition dynamics in camptothecin-induced mesenchymal micromasses. Two parameters of caspase-3 FMK inhibitor were investigated: first, the stability of the inhibitory potential in the time course of cultivation and, simultaneously, the dynamics of caspase-3 FMK inhibition after camptothecin-induced apoptosis peak. A photon-counting chemiluminescence approach was applied for quantification of active caspase-3. The sensitivity of the photon-counting method allowed for evaluation of active caspase-3 concentration in femtogram amounts per cell. The inhibitor penetrated the cells within the first minute after its application, and the peak of caspase-3 started to decline to the blank level after 30 min. The inhibitory effect of the FMK inhibitor was unchanged during the entire 48 h of cultivation.
40928169|Breast epithelial cells develop into polarized and highly organized acinar and ductal structures in response to stromal cues, including extracellular matrix composition and density, which can in part be reproduced in 3D culture conditions. Here, we present the effects of various 3D in vitro stroma compositions (termed "matrices" or "substrates") on the ability of heterotypic cultures of epithelial and mesenchymal stem cells to organize into acinar and tubular structures. Normal murine mammary gland (NMuMG) cells were cultured, either alone or in combination (30:70) with mouse mesenchymal stem cells (D1), in 3D matrices generated by agarose, collagen, and Matrigel  alone or by a combination thereof. After 3-5 d in culture, cell distribution, organization, and the presence of acinuslike and tubule-like structures were determined. The number of acinar structures was significantly higher in cultures grown in combination matrices of agarose with Matrigel  or collagen I when compared with cultures grown in Matrigel  or collagen I alone (p<0.05). No tubular structures were formed when agarose was included in the matrix, regardless of the combination. In Matrigel  , but not in collagen I/Matrigel  microenvironment, the number of tubular structures was significantly increased in NMuMG/D1 coculture when compared with culture of NMuMG cells alone (p<0.05). By immunohistochemical analysis, NMuMG cells cocultured with D1 cells were shown to form acinar structures with the NMuMG epithelial cells surrounding a lumen composed of dead cells while the D1 cells were mostly peripheral. Immunostaining for laminin indicated the presence of basement membrane when NMuMG cells were grown in Matrigel  alone or cocultured with D1 cells in a combination of Matrigel  and collagen I. These results indicate that the physical and biochemical properties of the matrix and cellular composition alter the organization of the mammary gland.
4294610| Satellite cells are postnatal myoblasts responsible for providing additional nuclei to growing or regenerating muscle cells. Satellite cells retain the capacity to proliferate and differentiate in vitro and, therefore, provide a useful model to study postnatal muscle development. Most culture systems used to study postnatal muscle development are limited by the two-dimensional (2-D) confines of the culture dish. Limiting proliferation and differentiation of satellite cells in 2-D could potentially limit cell-cell contacts important for developing the level of organization in skeletal muscle obtained in vivo. Culturing satellite cells on microcarrier beads suspended in the High-Aspect-Ratio-Vessel (HARV) designed by NASA provides a low shear, three-dimensional (3-D) environment to study muscle development. Primary cultures established from anterior tibialis muscles of growing rats (~ 200 gm) were used for all studies and were composed of greater than 75% satellite cells. Different inoculation densities did not affect the proliferative potential of satellite cells in the HARV. Plating efficiency, proliferation, and glucose utilization were compared between 2-D culture and 3-D HARV culture. Plating efficiency (cells attached  cells plated x100) was similar between the two culture systems. Proliferation was reduced in HARV cultures and this reduction was apparent for both satellite cells and nonsatellite cells. Furthermore, reduction in proliferation within the HARV could not be attributed to reduced substrate availability because glucose levels in medium from HARV and 2-D cell culture were similar. Morphologically, microcarrier beads within the HARV were joined together by cells into 3-D aggregates composed of greater than 10 beads/aggregate. Aggregation of beads did not occur in the absence of cells. Myotubes were often seen on individual beads or spanning the surface of two beads. In summary, proliferation and differentiation of satellite cells on microcarrier beads within the HARV bioreactor results in a 3-D level of organization that could provide a more suitable model to study postnatal muscle development than is currently available with standard culture methods. 
41318680|Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-4 has a crucial role on primordial germ cells (PGCs) development in vivo which can promote stem cell differentiation to PG-like cells. In this study, we investigated the expression of Mvh as one of the specific genes in primordial germ cells after treatment with different doses of BMP4 on bone mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs)-derived PGCs. Following isolation of BMSCs from male mouse femur and tibia, cells were cultured in medium for 72 h. Passage 4 murine BMSCs were characterized by CD90, CD 105, CD34, and CD45 markers and osteo-adipogenic differentiation. Different doses of BMP4 (0, 0.01, 0.1, 1,5, 25, 50, and 100 ng/ml) were added to BMSCs for PGCs differentiation during 4-days culture. Viability percent, proliferation rates, and expression of Mvh gene were analyzed by RT-qPCR. Data analysis was done with ANOVA test. CD90, CD105, CD34, and CD45 BMSCs were able to differentiate to osteoadipogenic lineages. The results revealed that proliferation rate and viability percent were raised significantly (p  0.05) by adding 1, 5, 25 ng/ml of BMP4 and there were decreased to the lowest rate after adding 100 ng/ml BMP4 (p  0.05). There were significant up regulation (p  0.05) in Mvh expression between 25, 50, and 100 ng/ml BMP4 with other doses. So the selective dose of BMP-4 for treatment during 4-day culture was 25 ng/ml. The results suggest that addition of 25 ng/ml BMP4 had the best effects based on genespecific marker expression.
4295683|We have established a means for prolonged survival of primary cell cultures and establishment of continuous cell lines without genetic manipulations. Primary cultures of granulosa cells degenerate rapidly in vitro by a spontaneous onset of apoptotic cell death. Earlier attempts to circumvent this limitation have included transformation with oncogenes, spontaneous immortalization of primary cultures, and chemical carcinogenesis. We have found that addition of a complex of growth-promoting compounds, carrier proteins, and factors isolated from porcine follicular fluid to standard culture medium allows, reproducibly, the establishment of continuous porcine primary granulosa cell lines with genetic stability. This same supplement allows the prolonged survival of primary cell cultures derived from adult rat ovaries. The rat ovary primary cultures consisted of mixed phenotypes, including epithelial, neuron-like, and mesenchymal cell types. Numerous cells stain positive for alkaline phosphatase in these cultures. Other primary cell lines were established from embryonic rat liver and from adult rat lungs, using the same supplement. The survival effect is reversible because cells degenerate when the supplement is removed. Therefore, the cell lines have neither acquired properties of a tumor cell line nor have they been immortalized by a virus infection. We expect that our approach will open the door to prolonged survival of other primary cell types.
40663805|The derivation and characterisation of human embryonic stem cells provides a source of pluripotent stem cells with potential for clinical applications. Utilising locally sourced embryos from two IVF clinics, we derived and characterised five new cell lines for use in a nonclinical setting. Analysis of clinical data showed that the majority of embryos (94.5%) failed to reach the blastocyst stage of development and of all embryos, regardless of developmental status, 248 embryos were needed to create one stem cell line. From the number of embryos (69) which developed to the blastocyst stage 8.7% developed into cell lines. Using outgrowth of the whole blastocyst, we derived five new, unreported cell lines in Odense, Denmark between 2005 and 2006. Characterisation was carried out using RT-PCR, staining, karyotyping, EB formation and teratoma formation. The KMEB hESC lines will, in the future, be made available through the UK Stem Cell Bank (http://www.ukstemcellbank.org.uk/).
4295121|We have investigated the effects of acetone and methanol extracts of a medicinal plant, Terminalia arjuna, on the growth of human normal fibroblasts (WI-38), osteosarcoma (U2OS), and glioblastoma (U251) cells in vitro. We found that both extracts at 30  g and 60  g/ml concentrations inhibit the growth of transformed cells; the growth of normal cells was least affected. Although the transformed cells appeared to have fragmented nucleus by Hoechst staining, no deoxyribonucleic acid laddering effect was observed. In response to the extract treatment, the tumor suppressor protein, p53, was induced in U2OS but not in U251 and WI-38 cells. A cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor,
24596443|Nuclear transfer (NT) is associated with epigenetic reprogramming of donor cells. Expression of certain genes in these cells might facilitate their expression in the NT embryo. This research was aimed to investigate the effect of constitutive expression of OCT4 in bovine somatic cells used for NT on the developmental potential of derived cloned embryos as well as in the expression of pluripotency markers in the Day-7 resulting embryos. Cloned blastocysts were generated from five cell lines that expressed OCT4. Pools of blastocysts were screened to detect OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG by qPCR. In vitro-fertilized time-matched blastocysts were used as controls. The development potential was assessed on the basis of blastocysts rate; grading and total cell counts at Day 7. OCT4 expression in the cell lines positively correlates with blastocysts rate (r=0.92; p=0.02), number of grade I blastocysts (r=0.96; p=0.01), and total cell number (r=0.98; p=0.002). The high expression of OCT4 in the cell line did not improve the final outcome of cloning. Somatic expression of OCT4 lead to increased expression of OCT4 and SOX2 in cloned grade I blastocysts; however, there was a bigger variability in OCT4 and SOX2 (p=0.03; p=0.02) expression in the embryos generated from cells expressing highest levels of OCT4. Probably the higher variability in OCT4 expression in cloned embryos is due to incorrect reprogramming and incapability of the oocyte to correct for higher OCT4 levels. For that reason, we concluded that OCT4 expression in somatic cells is not a good prognosis marker for selecting cell lines.
4295682| To examine whether a neuronal cell suspension can be held in vitro for a relatively short period without compromising survival rates and functionality, we have set up an experimental protocol planning 24 h of suspension culture in a rotary wall vessel (RWV) bioreactor before plating in a conventional adherent system. Apoptosis measurement and activated caspase-8, -9, and -3 detection have demonstrated that survey of the cells was not affected. The activity of major antioxidant enzymes (AOE), Superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and catalase (CAT), was significantly decreased in RWV-maintained cells. A significant decrease of tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) is coupled with a level of activated nuclear factor-B (NF-B) protein significantly lower in RVW cells than in the control. On the contrary, the level of IL-6 expression did not change between the test and the control. A significant up-regulation of growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-/ (PPAR/), and acyl-CoA synthetase 2 (ACS2) in RWV cells has been detected. We provide the evidence that primary neuronal cells, at an early stage of development, can be maintained in a suspension condition before adherent plating. This experimental environment does not induce detrimental effects but may have an activator role, leading cells to development and maturation in a tridimensional state. 
4294243|In our preliminary subcellular localization experiment we demonstrated that annexin II co-localized with submembranous actin in subpopulations of both cultured fibroblasts and keratinocytes. To investigate the physical interaction between annexin II and actin at the cell periphery, in vitro reconstitution experiments were carried out with keratins used as a control. Annexin II, isolated by immunoaffinity column chromatography, was found to exist as globular structures measuring 10 to 25 nm in diameter by rotary shadowing, similar to a previous report. We believe that these structures represent its polymeric forms. By negative staining, monomeric annexin II was detectable as tapered rods, measuring 6 nm in length and 1 to 2 nm in diameter. When annexin II was mixed with actin in 3 mM piperazine-N, N-bis-2-ethanesulfonic acid (PIPES) buffer with 10 mM NaCl
41417652|Prior to differentiation, embryonic stem (ES) cells in culture are maintained in a so-called "undifferentiated" state, allowing derivation of multiple downstream cell lineages when induced in a directed manner, which in turn grants these cells their "pluripotent" state. The current work is based on a simple observation that the initial culture condition for maintaining mouse ES cells in an "undifferentiated" state does impact on the differentiation propensity of these cells, in this case to a neuronal fate. We point out the importance in judging the "pluripotency" of a given stem cell culture, as this clearly demonstrated that the "undifferentiated" state of these cells is not necessarily a "pluripotent" state, even for a widely used mouse ES cell line. We partly attribute this difference in the initial value of ES cells
40663799|The Singapore Stem Cell Bank has generated human embryonic stem cell banks from clinical-grade cell lines ESI-017, ESI-035, ESI-049, and ESI-053. All banks were prepared and characterized according to principles of Good Laboratory Practice for quality assurance. Importantly, each cell line has clearly documented and approved ethical provenance and meets recognized standards for performance and safety. The banks are intended to facilitate the translation of stem cell research to clinical medicine by enabling early phase research and development with highquality, low-cost cells that are also available as clinicalgrade stocks.
40205884|The cancer stem cell (CSC) hypothesis has provided insights into the initiation and recurrence of brain tumor. Specific identification and targeted elimination of these CSCs within the tumor mass represents a promising therapeutic strategy for refractory brain tumors. In this study, we attempted to identify CSCs in the rat C6 glioma cell line by three different identification methods. It is interesting to note that single-cell clonal analysis showed most C6 cells are cancer stem-like cells with characteristics of self-renewal, muttilineage differentiation potentials in vitro, and tumorigenic capacity in vivo. It is surprising to note that CD 133 failed to identify the total cancer stem- like cell population in the C6 line, since both CD 133 (+) and CD 133 (-) C6 cells have cancer stem-like cell fractions. Moreover, Hoechst 33342 staining, which is used in flow cytometry to isolate the side population (SP), was found to be harmful to C6 cells. Therefore, CD 133 (-) and non-SP C6 cells may also harbor cancer stem-like cells. These results imply the limitation of using current identification methods in C6 line and underscore the importance of defining the genetic and molecular basis of CSCs.
4295496|Methods for the stepwise isolation of endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells from individual canine coronary arteries are described. Both cell types can be isolated in pure culture with high yields. Dogs are a common species used in the study of atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease. Capacity to isolate endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells from individual canine coronary arteries should prove useful in the study of coronary artery disease.
4295563|The number of medical applications using autologous fibroblasts is increasing rapidly. We investigated thoroughly the procedure to isolate cells from skin using the enzymatic tissue dissociation procedure. Tissue digestion efficiency, cell viability, and yield were investigated in relation to size of tissue fragments, digestion volume to tissue ratio, digestion time, and importance of other protease activities present in Clostridium histolyticum collagenase (CHC) (neutral protease, clostripain, and trypsin). The results showed that digestion was optimal with small tissue fragments (
4295146|Altered expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is common in a variety of epithelial malignancies, including cervical cancer. However, the prognostic significance of EGFR expression is controversial for cervical cancer. Platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) expression status is unknown in cervical cancer. Our results demonstrated that expression of EGFR and PDGFR was greatly enhanced in vivo and in organotypic cultures of low-grade cervical dysplastic tissues, but levels were decreased in high-grade lesions. To our knowledge, this is the first report identifying the expression of PDGFR in human epithelium. When low-grade dysplastic organotypic culture tissues were induced to differentiate more completely, EGFR expression, but not PDGFR expression, was relocalized to the basal layer as seen in normal tissues. Differentiation also induced phosphorylation of EGFR but not PDGFR. Our results suggest a role for EGFR and PDGFR during the early stages of cervical carcinogenesis, and demonstrate the facility of organotypic cultures to study the role of these growth factors in the development of cervical cancer.
4294282|Cystic fibrosis (CF) involves abnormalities in mucus production and secretion of the airway. Studies of the regulation of airway mucin production and secretion has been difficult due to the lack of in vitro models of the airway epithelial cells which express functional differentiation. Because the majority of the mucin in the airway is apparently produced by the submucosal glands, we have focused our attention on the development of cell culture models of human airway submucosal glands. This report describes the propagation of CF airway submucosal gland epithelial cells which continue to express mucin production. The CF bronchus was obtained from a 31-yr-old patient who received a double lung transplant. The glands were dissected out and primary cultures prepared by the explant/outgrowth procedure. The cells were immortalized by infection with Ad12-SV40 hybrid virus. The cultures are maintained in serum-free keratinocyte basal medium supplemented with insulin (
4294341| The stability and inducibility of several P450 activities (namely, P450 1A1, 2A1, 2B1/2, 2C11, and 3A1) were studied in rat hepatocytes co-cultured with the MS epithelial cell line derived from monkey kidney. The results revealed that these monooxygenase activities were systematically higher in co-cultures than in conventional hepatocyte cultures. Pure cultures showed a rapid loss of monooxygenase activities, which were undetectable after 5 days. In contrast, all isozymes assayed were measurable in co-cultured hepatocytes on Day 7 (about 15 to 40% of the initial activities of Day 0 of culture). The beneficial effects of the co-culture system seemed to be more selective for certain cytochrome P450 isoforms, with P450 1A1 and 3A1 being the best stabilized isozymes after 1 wk. A clear response to inducers was observed in co-cultures, each isozyme showing a different induction pattern. 3-Methylcholanthrene produced a strong increase in P450 1A1 (7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase) activity and a low increase in P450 2A1 (testosterone 7-hydroxylation), whereas no changes were observed in the other activities. Phenobarbital treatment resulted in increases in P450 2B1/2 (7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase and 16- and 16-hydroxylation of testosterone) activities, while minor effects were observed on P450 3A1 (testosterone 6-hydroxylation) activity. Dexamethasone markedly increased P450 3A1 (testosterone 6- and 15-hydroxylation) activity and, to a lesser extent, P450 2B1/2 (16-hydroxylation). 
4294291| Phase I and II activities were examined in six rodent hepatoma cell lines and compared with those of cultured rat hepatocytes both in basal conditions and after exposure to 5 M methylcholanthrene, 2 mM phenobarbital, and 15 M -naphtoflavone. The metabolic profile of testosterone was also studied. The highest aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase activities were found in MH1C1 cells. Comparable values for 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity, ranging from 21.6 to 42.9 pmol/mg x min, were observed in the hepatocytes and hepatoma cells, except the HTC cells. In contrast, only Fao cells showed 7-pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase activity at levels similar to those of hepatocytes (6.2  1.0 and 7.4  1.2 pmol/mg x min, respectively). Rat hepatocytes actively hydroxylated p-nitrophenol, but this activity was not measurable in hepatoma cells. Glutathione transferase activity was maintained in all the hepatoma cell lines at similar levels to those found in hepatocytes (684 56 nmol/mg x min). The seven hydroxylated metabolites of testosterone produced by cultured hepatocytes were negligible in hepatoma cells. Exposure of cells to inducers revealed that aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity was mainly increased after treatment with 3-methylcholanthrene and -naphtoflavone, and the highest values were found in rat hepatocytes followed by MH1C1 and Fao cells. 3-Methylcholanthrene and naphtoflavone treatment also resulted in a marked increase in 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity in hepatocytes as well as in H4IIC3, McA-Rh7777, MH1C1, and Fao cells. An enhancement of 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase activity due to the three inducers was observed in both rat hepatocytes and hepatoma cells, with MH1C1 cells treated with methylcholanthrene showing the highest activity (727  74 pmol/mg x min). Increases in 7-pentoxyres-orufin O-depentylase activity were detected after phenobarbital treatment of hepatocytes, MH1C1, and Fao cells, whereas a low response was observed in the other hepatoma cells. Of the six hepatoma cell lines examined, MH1C1 and Fao cells are the ones that are most similar to cultured rat hepatocytes in their expression of biotransformation activities. 
40928180|The PICM-19 pig liver stem cell line is a bipotent cell line, i.e., capable of forming either bile ductules or hepatocyte monolayers in vitro, that was derived from the primary culture of pig embryonic stem cells. The cell line has been strictly feeder-dependent in that cell replication, morphology, and function were lost if the cells were cultured without STO feeder cells. A method for the feeder-independent continuous culture of PICM-19 cells (FI-PICM-19) is presented. PICM-19 cells were maintained and grown without feeder cells on collagen I-coated tissue culture plastic for 26 passages (P26) with initial split ratios of 1:3 that diminished to split ratios of less than 1:2 after passage 16. Once plated, the FI-PICM-19 cells were overlaid with a 1:12 to 1:50 dilution of Matrigel or related extracellular matrix product. Growth of the cells was stimulated by daily refeedings with STO feeder-cell conditioned medium. The FI-PICM-19 cells grew to an approximate confluence of 50% prior to each passage at 2-wk intervals. Growth curve analysis showed their average cell number doubling time to be ~96 h. Morphologically, the feeder-independent cells closely resembled PICM-19 cells grown on feeder cells, and biliary canalicui were present at cell-to-cell junctions. However, no spontaneous multicellular ductules formed in the monolayers of FI-PICM-19 cells. Ultrastructural subcellular features of the FI-PICM-19 cells were similar to those of PICM-19 cells cultured on feeder cells. The FI-PICM-19 cells produced a spectrum of serum proteins and expressed many liver/hepatocyte-specific genes. Importantly, cytochrome P450 (EROD) activity, ammonia clearance, and urea production were maintained by the feeder-independent cells. This simple method for the propagation of the PICM-19 cell line without feeder cells should simplify the generation and selection of functional mutants within the population and enhances the cell line's potential for use in toxicological/pharmacological screening assays and for use in an artificial liver device.
4294050|The possible antiproliferative effect of melatonin on retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells in vitro was investigated. Bovine RPE cells cultured in Ham's F12 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum had a nuclear density of
40205850|Gene targeting is a precise manipulation of endogenous gene by introduction of exogenous DNA and has contributed greatly to the elucidation of gene functions. Conventional gene targeting has been achieved through a use of embryonic stem cells. However, such procedure is often long, tedious, and expensive. This study was carried out to develop a simple procedure of gene targeting using E. coli recombinase A (RecA) and modified single-stranded oligonucleotides. The new procedure was attempted to modify X-linked hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) gene in mouse embryos. The single-stranded oligonucleotide to target an exon 3 of HPRT was 74 bases in length including phosphorothioate linkages at each terminus to be resistant against exonucleases when introduced into zygotes. The oligonucleotide sequence was homologous to the target gene except a single nucleotide that induces a mismatch between an introduced oligonucleotide and endogenous HPRT gene. Endogenous repairing of such mismatch would give rise to the conversion of TAT to TAG stop codon thereby losing the function of the target gene. Before an introduction into zygotes, singlestranded oligonucleotides were bound to RecA to enhance the homologous recombination. The RecA-oligonucleotide complex was microinjected into the pronucleus of zygote. Individual microinjected embryos developed to the blastocyst stage were analyzed for the expected nucleotide conversion using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and subsequent sequencing. The conversion of TAT to TAG stop codon was detected in three embroys among 48 tested blastocysts (6.25% in frequency). The result suggest that the gene targeting was feasible by relatively easier and direct method.
20869522|In botryllid ascidians, astogeny is executed through blastogenesis, a weekly, highly synchronized phenomenon of growth and death cycles, each constitutes four major developmental stages (AD), operating simultaneously on three coexisting asexually derived generations, including primary and secondary palleal buds. This study documents the de novo expression of Piwi transcript and protein in extirpated blastogenic stage "D" buds isolated from Botryllus schlosseri colonies that are maintained in vitro, days after the disappearance of corresponding intact zooids in control colonies. Under in vitro conditions, floating buds attach to substrates and develop monolayers of epithelial sheets that live for long periods (compared to intact colonial buds) prior to their deterioration. Here, we further demonstrate that various cell types within floating blastogenic stage "D" buds are labeled as Piwi, as do other cells that are dispersed over the epithelial sheets (that are Piwi, representing highly differentiated state), all revealing a surprising new flag for stemness in these tissue fragments that developed exclusively under in vitro conditions. No single permanent cell-line is currently available from colonial tunicates or from other marine invertebrates, since cells stop dividing in vitro within 2472 h after their isolation and start cellular quiescence. The development of epithelial sheets from isolated Botryllus palleal buds and the recorded molecular stemness flag of various cells, remaining for long periods under in vitro conditions, may pave the way for establishing cell cultures from Botryllus epithelial cells.
4294623|Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and transforming growth factor beta-l(
4295631|Our study focused on investigating the mechanism of action of estrogen in regulating p53 levels within osteoblasts. In the studies reported here, we attempted to understand the role of estrogen receptors, ER-alpha and ER-beta, in the regulation of p53 and osteoblast differentiation. We stably expressed ER-alpha and ER-beta in ROS 17/2.8 cells and isolated several single cell clones. These clones were initially characterized for expression of the exogenous receptors, and representative clones from each type were chosen for further analyses. Cell proliferation, alkaline phosphatase activity, and the viability of these clones in culture were tested. The cells expressing exogenous ER-alpha exhibited more differentiated characteristics than cells expressing ER-beta. Morphologically, ER-beta-overexpressing cells were more rounded than the ER-alpha-overexpressing cells, which were more elongated and fibroblastic in appearance. The ER-beta-expressing cells had a higher survival and growth rate when compared with ER-alpha cells. The ER-alpha clones were not as viable as ER-beta clones, and some of the ER-alpha cell lines showed signs of senescence, with an increase in senescence-associated (SA) galactosidase activity. The basal levels of p53 functional activity were higher in cells expressing ER-alpha as was protein expression of the p53-regulated gene p21. The significance of these receptors to osteoblast differentiation and p53 regulation is discussed.
40602774|Liver in vitro models are needed to replace animal models for rapid assessment of drug biotransformation and toxicity. The PICM-19 pig liver stem cell line may fulfill this need since these cells have activities associated with xenobiotic phase I and II metabolism lacking in other liver cell lines. The objective of this study was to characterize phase I and II metabolic functions of a PICM-19 derivative cell line, PICM-19H, compared to the tumor-derived human HepG2 C3A cell line and primary cultures of adult porcine hepatocytes. Following exposure of PICM-19H cells to either 3-methylcholanthrene, rifampicin or phenobarbital, the induced activities of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isozymes CYP-1A, -2, and-3A were assessed. Relative to adult porcine hepatocytes, PICM 19H cells exhibited 30% and 43%, respectively, of CYP1A and 3A activities, while HepG2 C3A cells exhibited 7% and 0% of those activities. Fluorescent metabolites were extensively conjugated, i. e., 52% and 96% of CYP450-1A and-3A metabolites were released from medium samples following treatment with -glucuronidase/arylsulfatase. Rifampicin induction of CYP450 isozyme activities was confirmed by conversion of testosterone to 6 -OH-, 2-OH-and 2-OH-testosterone, as determined by mass spectrometry. Susceptibility of PICM-19H cells to acetaminophen toxicity was determined; CD was calculated to be 14.9  0.9 mM. Toxicity and bioactivation of aflatoxin B1 was determined in 3-methylcholanthrenetreated cultures and untreated controls; CD were 1.59 M and 31 M, respectively. These results demonstrate the potential use of PICM-19H cells in drug biotransformation and toxicity testing and further support their use in extracorporeal artificial liver device technology.
4294788|Because isolation of sufficient numbers of cycling, germinal center B cells from mice for biochemical characterization of BCR-derived signals can be problematic, we have designed an experimental approach for generating large numbers of cycling B cells for further study. In the experiments reported here, small, resting B cells were polyclonally stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and cycling B cells isolated as two bands on three-step Percoll gradients. Cycling B cells isolated at Days 2, 4, or 6 of preactivation showed an increased expression of Fas receptor and peanut agglutinin binding, with a concomitant decrease in sIgD positivity. These cells phenotypically resembled extrafollicular or early germinal center B cells. These cycling B cells were used to study the functional consequences of differential signaling through the BCR. Strong cross-linking of BCR, by restimulation of cycling normal B cells with either immobilized or soluble F(ab')
20460121|Conditionally transformed human myocardial cell lines would be a valuable resource for studying human cardiac cell biology. We generated clonal human fetal cardiocyte cell lines by transfection of fetal ventricular cardiac cell clones with a plasmid containing a replication-defective mutant of the temperature-sensitive SV40 strain tsA58. Multiple resulting cell lines showed similar features, namely: (1) T antigen (TAg) expression at both permissive (34 C) and restrictive (40.5 C) temperatures; (2) extended growth capacity in comparison with parental wild type, when grown at the permissive temperature; (3) both temperature-dependent and serum-responsive growth, and; (4) an incompletely differentiated fetal phenotype which was similar at both permissive and restrictive temperatures and in the presence and absence of serum. The transformed myocyte phenotype was demonstrated using immunocytochemistry, Western and Northern blotting, and reverse transcription--polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Cell lines expressed skeletal -actin, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), and keratins, but no sarcomeric myosin heavy chain or desmin. Immunoreactive sarcomeric actin was expressed predominantly as a truncated protein of approximately 38 kD. The phenotype of the transformed cells differs from that of the wild-type parental cells as well as from those reported by others who have used TAg to immortalize rodent or human ventricular myocytes. Our cell lines should provide a useful tool for study of the molecular mechanisms regulating growth and differentiation in human cardiac muscle cells.
4295518| The neurotransmitter serotonin (5HT) possesses developmental functions in vertebrates and invertebrates. Rodent embryos express 5HT receptors even before neural development, but the role of this neurochemical seems to be particularly important during axonal morphogenesis and differentiation and in neural crest cell migration. Moreover, 5HT inhibitors are teratogenic in mammals, inducing brain and heart abnormalities. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of nonphysiological concentrations of 5HT (5HT excess as well as deprivation) on developing rat neural cells using the micromass method. This simple and rapid micromass method allows the culture of mesencephalic cells capable of achieving and maintaining a significant degree of differentiation. Mesencephalic cells from 13 d post coitum (pc) rat were cultured and exposed to exogenous 5HT (1, 10, 50, or 100 M) or to the specific 5HT2 receptor inhibitor mianserin (0.5, 5, 25, or 50 M) during the whole culture period (5 d). The micromass morphology, the cytoskeletal organization, the pathological apoptosis, and the differentiative capability of cultured mesencephalic cells have been analyzed. The results show that 10-100 M 5HT and 0.5-50 M mianserin are able to disrupt the normal micromass morphology; 5HT and mianserin are unable to interfere with the cytoskeletal structures; mianserin (but not 5HT) induces pathological apoptosis on micromass cells at concentration levels of 0.5-50 M; 5HT (but not mianserin) alters the neural differentiation at concentration levels of 10-100 M. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that an excess of 5HT inhibits the capability of mesencephalic neurons to differentiate as shown by the alterations of the expression of the neuronal differentiative proteins glial-derived neurotrophic factor and Neu-N; on the other hand, the blocking of 5HT2 receptors induces apoptosis in differentiating neurons. 
4294407|In primary monocultures of adult rat liver parenchymal cells (PC), the activities of the xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes microsomal epoxide hydrolase (
40205832|Species identification of cell lines and detection of cross-contamination are crucial for scientific research accuracy and reproducibility. Whereas short tandem repeat profiling offers a solution for a limited number of species, primarily human and mouse, the standard method for species identification of cell lines is enzyme polymorphism. Isoezymology, however, has its own drawbacks; it is cumbersome and the data interpretation is often difficult. Furthermore, the detection sensitivity for cross-contamination is low; it requires large amounts of the contaminant present and cross-contamination within closely related species may go undetected. In this paper, we describe a two-pronged molecular approach that addresses these issues by targeting the mitochondrial genome. First, we developed a multiplex PCR-based assay to rapidly identify the most common cell culture species and quickly detect cross-contaminations among these species. Second, for speciation and identification of a wider variety of cell lines, we amplified and sequenced a 648-bp region, often described as the "barcode region" by using a universal primer mix targeted at conserved sequences of the cytochrome C oxidase I gene (COI). This method was challenged with a panel of 67 cell lines from 45 diverse species. Implementation of these assays will accurately determine the species of cell lines and will reduce the problems of misidentification and cross-contamination that plague research efforts.
4294458|Primary cultures of rabbit corneal epithelial cells have been developed as an in vitro system to predict irritancy potential and delayed cytotoxicity of surfactants in our laboratory. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of the surfactant sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), a common ingredient in consumer products, on intracellular Ca
4294277| Procedures for the serum-free culture of rat keratinocytes have been established. Basal cells prepared from epidermis of newborn rat were stored in liquid nitrogen and used for primary culture. Among the available media, MCDB 153, developed originally for human keratinocyte (HK) culture, was the best for the development of serum-free formulation. To grow rat keratinocytes, bovine serum albumin was arbitrarily substituted for the macromolecule supplements needed for HK culture, i.e. fetal bovine serum protein or bovine pituitary extract. Qualitative and quantitative adjustment of supplements was thereafter made to support rapid cell growth. Satisfactory cell growth was achieved in the optimized medium of MCDB 153 supplemented with growth factors and amino acids: insulin (10 g/ml), hydrocortisone (0.1 g/ml), epidermal growth factor (25 ng/ml), calcium chloride (0.2 mM), histidine (0.23 mM), isoleucine (0.05 mM), tryptophane (0.015 mM), threonine (1.25 mM), tyrosine (0.031 mM), alanine (4.08 mM), and albumin (2 mg/ml). This optimized culture system was superior to the original HK culture condition for rapid growth of rat keratinocytes. Under our condition, cells grew as a monolayer, becoming confluent, but without stratification, and were passaged 2 to 3 times without any changes in morphology. The serum-free formulation allows us to control more accurately the concentrations of biomolecules in the medium including lipids and hormones, and therefore will be suitable for the study focusing on lipid metabolism or hormonal regulation of rat keratinocytes. 
4294355|We have established and partially characterized a spontaneously immortalized bovine mammary epithelial cell line, designated HH2a. The cells express the gene encoding for mammary derived growth inhibitor (MDGI) when grown on released collagen gels in the presence of lactogenic hormones. This is the first report of a cell line that expresses MDGI. Immunohistochemical studies showed that HH2a cells contain keratin intermediate filaments and desmosomes. When plated on confluent monolayer of live fibroblasts, HH2a cells extensively contacted with fibroblasts. When embedded in the collagen gels, they rearranged themselves to produce three-dimensional duct-like outgrowths extending into the matrix. The HH2a cell line should be useful in investigations of the roles of cell-cell and cell-extracellular interactions in regulation of breast epithelial cell proliferation, and of the hormonal regulation of MDGI gene expression.
20869563|The zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) has been intensively studied in many research fields including neuroscience, behavioral neurobiology, and evolution of the genome. Although numerous molecular and genomic resources are available for this model species, immortalized cell lines have been lacking. We have established two zebra finch cell lines derived from spontaneous tumors. ZFTMA is a tetraploid female cell line and G266 as a diploid male cell line. These first zebra finch cell lines should facilitate development of research on this model species.
4294842|Intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) have previously been shown to produce several cytokines including interleukin-6 (IL-6). However, many factors which may regulate IL-6 secretion by human IEC still remain a mystery due in part to the lack of appropriate model cell lines and the difficulty of culturing human IEC over long periods of time. We have determined that the human colonic carcinoma cell line Caco-2 is capable of secreting IL-6 when stimulated by the inflammatory cytokines
4294224|Eleven human endothelial cell lines have been produced by introducing sequences from the DNA tumor virus SV40 into human umbilical vein endothelial cells either by strontium phosphate coprecipitation or electroporation. The resultant lines were confirmed as being endothelial in origin by their production of endothelial-specific von Willebrand factor. The growth characteristics of the different lines in normal and reduced levels of serum was determined, as was their cellular response to endothelial cell growth supplement in combination with heparin, basic fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor-alpha, and epidermal growth factor.
4295241|A few models have been established to study cancer cells in vitro. However, the cellular interactions have rarely been studied specifically using bioengineered cancer constructs combining human carcinoma cells and tumor-associated fibroblasts. We developed an in vitro model of tridimensional bioengineered cancer tissue constructs (bCTC) by seeding mammary epithelial cancer cells or normal keratinocytes over a mesenchymal layer containing tumor-derived fibroblastic cells or normal skin fibroblasts. After the introduction of epithelial cells, each construct was cultured for another 10 d. Histologic analyses showed that carcinoma cell lines could invade the subjacent mesenchymal layer and that the capacity to migrate was related to the invasive potential of cancer cells and the type of fibroblasts used, while noninvasive populations did not. Of the tested epithelial cells, MDA-MB-231 and, to a lesser degree, HDQ-P1 cell lines were invasive, and the invasion was deeper into the mesenchymal component containing tumor-derived fibroblasts. However, with normal skin fibroblasts, the mesenchymal layer was degraded twice faster than with tumor-derived fibroblastic cells. MDA-MB-231 cells and normal keratinocytes induced the highest level of gelatinase B, and the level was lowest with the MCF-7 cell line. The activated form of gelatinase B was, however, induced to the highest levels in the keratinocyte-seeded bCTC containing tumor-derived but not normal fibroblasts. MDA-MB-231 was the only epithelial cancer cell line whose activity of gelatinase A was reduced when cocultured with tumor-derived fibroblasts but not under normal fibroblast stimulation. Finally, a 50/48-kDa gelatinase band has been observed in bCTCs with noninvasive epithelial cells only. Our study demonstrates the selective secretion of gelatinases according to the phenotype of the cells seeded in the various bCTCs.
4294076|Oxidant injury of the vascular endothelium is considered an early event in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. The model of oxidant injury is crucial to the investigation of antioxidants. In the present study, a convenient in vitro model of oxidant injury induced by hydrogen peroxide (H
40663816|We report here the legislative issues related to embryo research and human embryonic stem cell (hESC) research in Spain and the derivation of nine hESC lines at the Center of Regenerative Medicine in Barcelona. You can find the information for obtaining our lines for research purposes at blc@cmrb.eu.
4294560|We reported that a murine carcinoma (DEN3) and its six pulmonary metastases (M2, M4C, M4D, M4E, M4F, and M6) exhibited different degrees of radioresistability (In Vitro Cell. Dev. Biol. 26:222-228; 1990). While the M2, M4C, M4E, and M4F cultured cells survived up to 2.5 Gy, the cells of DEN3 and M6 tolerated up to 5.0 Gy, and the M4D cells could withstand up to 10.0 Gy of X-irradiation. In the present investigation, the cytogenetic features of these cell lines were examined: (a) to determine the degree of cytogenetic heterogeneity among these cell lines, and (b) to investigate whether any association between the cytogenetic anomaly and the degree of radioresistability could be established. Heterogeneous cytogenetic aberrations were detected in all of the above lines. Karyotype analysis of the M4D and M6 cell lines displayed both numerical and structural abnormalities. The gain and loss of chromosomal copies were observed. Structural aberrations, such as translocation and deletion appeared in both cell lines. However, correlation between the cytogenetic abnormality and the degree of radioresistability was not demonstrated except for a dramatic reduction in one or more copies of the X-chromosome that occurred in 86% and 93% of the M6 and M4D cells, respectively. The results suggest heterogeneous cytogenetic aberrations among these cell lines and a possible association between the loss of X-chromosome and radioresistability of these tumor cells.
4294495| The leucine zipper transcription factors C/EBP and C/EBP exhibit growth-related variations of expression and DNA binding during liver regeneration. We examined the expression of C/EBP proteins in relation to hepatocyte proliferation by studying their DNA-binding activity in primary mouse hepatocytes in vitro. Mouse hepatocytes were dissociated by collagenase perfusion and cultured in a serum-free, defined medium containing a variety of growth factors and hormones. Cell protein extracts were collected every 24 h for up to 10 d and examined for DNA-binding activity by gel retardation analysis using a C/EBP consensus sequence oligomer (bZIP). C/EBP is the major bZIP-binding protein present in the dissociated cells prior to plating. With the culture conditions we employed, little or no binding of C/EBP proteins was observed in the first 24 to 48 h of cultivation. After 48 h, C/EBP binding activity was elevated relative to the level seen in freshly dissociated cells. In contrast, C/EBP binding continued to be greatly reduced and no C/EBP binding was observed. C/EBP binding remained elevated for the duration of the experiment. Additional growth factor treatment (EGF, FGF, TGF, and HGF) of the hepatocytes did not appreciably alter the pattern of C/EBP binding. However, TGF treatment, known to decrease hepatocyte proliferation, increased C/EBP binding activity earlier and more actively than in control cells. This study confirms a negative correlation between DNA binding by the C/EBP transactivator proteins and the proliferation of primary mouse hepatocytes in vitro. 
4294901|Recently investigators showed that polydnavirus DNA from the parasitic wasp Glyptapanteles indiensis could transform gypsy moth L. dispar cell lines in vitro (McKelvey et al., 1996). Here we show GiPDV DNA is capable of transforming in vitro to varying degrees lepidopteran (
23481770|The two-stage cell transformation assay is an in vitro model cell culture system to identify the ability of chemicals to act as initiators or promoters of cell transformation and also to study the cellular and molecular mechanisms of chemically induced morphological and neoplastic cell transformation. The global gene expression profiles of 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA)+12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-transformed C3H/10T1/2 cells are not known. Therefore, we have investigated the global transcriptional profile of MCA+TPA-transformed C3H10T1/2 cells using an 8  60 k probe microarray. The study revealed a differential regulation of pathways and gene expressions. Multifold dysregulation was seen in pathways of cancer, phagosomal activity, and tumor cell microenvironment information processing systems, notably the neuroactive ligandreceptor interaction, actin cytoskeleton regulation, tight junction, axon guidance, and cell adhesion molecules. The genes FGF1, EIF4E1B, MAGI1, and GRIA3 showed upregulation; these encoded the pluripotent fibroblast growth factor, the translation initiation factor, the tight junction scaffolding protein, and the antiapoptotic as well as the enhancer of proliferation and migration, respectively. The genes CXCL7/CXCL5/CXCL12, H2DMB1, and HSPA1A showed downregulation; these encoded the chemotactic agent protein, the protein involved in MHC class II antigen processing/presentation or participating in cell adhesion/phagosomal activity/autoimmune disorder, and the chaperone protein stabilizing the existing as well as newly translated cytosolic/organelle proteins against aggregation, respectively. By loss or gain of function, these dysregulated genes apparently seem to reprogram cells for apoptosis or proliferation and support their transformation into the tumor cell phenotype. The observed molecular changes can be seen as molecular signatures of transformed cells and can be of use as objective evidences to C3H/10T1/2 cell transformation assay in investigations on the carcinogenic potential of chemicals and their mechanism of actions using in vitro carcinogenesis method.
20616577|Mechanical loading is known to trigger proliferation of tumor cells. Periostin is a new molecule found to increase in many cancers. To determine how mechanical strain modulates tumor growth and its possible mediation by periostin through TGF-1, Lewis lung cancer cells were cultured on flexible-bottomed culture plates and cyclically strained using Flexercell Strain Unit. Real-time RT-PCR was used to quantify periostin and TGF-1 mRNA levels at 6, 12, 18, and 24 h of loading. In addition, periostin and TGF-1 neutralizing antibodies were added to the medium. We showed that the proliferative ability of Lewis cancer cells was significantly increased by cyclical strain. This change can be blocked by 5 g/ml of periostin neutralizing antibody. Periostin mRNA increased by 1.1-, 3.2-, 4.7-, and 9.2-fold while TGF-1 mRNA increased by 5.3-, 10.3-, 7.1-, and 6.5-fold at 6, 12, 18, and 24 h, respectively. Periostin protein in medium increased after cyclical strain. Expression of periostin mRNA in response to mechanical loading was completely blocked by 2.5 g/ml of TGF-1 neutralizing antibody. In addition, overexpression of periostin in Lewis cells can promote cell proliferation. Our results suggest that periostin is a potent positive regulator of tumor growth in response to mechanical loading and is possibly a downstream factor of TGF-1.
4295068| A comparison of isolation techniques for small preantral follicles (30-70 m) from bovine ovaries using a mechanical method with a grating device or collagenase treatment was performed. The mean number (157.0) of intact follicles per ovary isolated by the mechanical method was significantly greater (P < 0.05) than that (26.0) of follicles isolated by the enzymatic method. Isolated morphologically normal follicles (MNF) were cultured for up to 30 d either in control cultures (non-coculture) or in coculture with bovine ovary mesenchymal cells (BOM), fetal bovine skin fibroblasts (FBF), and/or bovine granulosa cells (BGC). In control cultures, most of the follicles degenerated and only a few MNF (1.2%) were present after 30 d in culture. In contrast, the cocultures with BOM, FBF, and BGC resulted in 50.7, 46.6, and 21.4% viable MNF, respectively. Trypan blue and Hoechst 33258 staining were used for a quick and sensitive assessment of oocyte and granulosa cell viability during follicle isolation and culture in vitro. After 30 d, percentages of viable follicles in coculture with BOM (18.6%) and FBF (17.1%) were significantly greater than those of follicles in the control cultures (0%) or in coculture with BGC (10.0%). There was a gradual increase in the average diameter of the MNF during culture. The mean diameter of the follicles increased by 15.4 and 30.0% in coculture with BOM and FBF, respectively, by day 30. In conclusion, small bovine preantral follicles were efficiently isolated using a mechanical method that utilizes a grating device, and could be maintained for up to 30 d in the presence of mesenchymal cell cocultures such as BOM and FBF. This in vitro culture system that supports long-term survival of bovine preantral follicles should be beneficial for studying follicle growth and development. 
41511626|Intramuscular long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs) play an important role in energy production and initiation of mitochondrial oxidation of lipids. Herein, we report a natural porcine placenta steroid extract (PPSE) that stimulates transdifferentiation and lipid accumulation in bovine myogenic satellite cells (MSCs). The steroids hormones in PPSE were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay and presence of LCFA was established using gas chromatography. At 70 % confluent growth, cells were treated with PPSE, LCFAs, transdifferentiation cocktail and commercially available steroid hormones. The working concentrations of all chemicals were manipulated similar to PPSE. The cells were observed for morphological changes and subjected to quantitative analysis of lipid deposition on Days 2, 4, and 6 of treatment. PPSE-treated MSCs exclusively transformed into lipid-accumulated adipose-like cells (ALCs). However, myotubes or adipocytes were formed in cells treated with other chemicals. Expression of different genes was studied to ascertain the molecular mechanism involved in ALC formation. CD36, fatty acid binding protein 4, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma were up-regulated. The expression of CD36 was established through immunocytochemical analysis. A viability assay was used to confirm the effect of PPSE on proliferation of MSCs. Hence, a natural steroid extract from porcine was found as a nontoxic mixture, which induces lipid accumulation and transdifferentiation of MSCs to ALCs. From the gene expression studies, it was established that the extract works almost in homogenous manner with other lipid inducers.
40205799|Angiopoietin-1 (Angl) is an essential molecule for blood vessel formation. In an effort to produce large quantities of Angl, recombinant Chinese hamster ovary (rCHO) cells expressing a high level of recombinant human Angl protein (rhAngl) with an amino terminal FLAG-tag were constructed by transfecting the expression vector into dihydrofolate reductase-deficient CHO cells and subsequent gene amplification in a medium containing step-wise increments of methotrexate, such as 0.02, 0.08, and 0.32 M. The rhAngl secreted from rCHO cells was purified at a purification yield of 18.4% from the cultured medium using an anti-FLAG M2 agarose affinity gel. SDS-PAGE and Western blot analyses showed that rCHO cells secret rhAngl as heterogeneous multimers. Moreover, rhAngl expressed in rCHO cells is biologically active in vitro as demonstrated by its ability to bind to the Tie2 receptor and to phosphorylate Tie2. Therefore, the rhAngl produced from CHO cells could be useful for clarifying the biological effects of exogenous rhAngl in the future.
41318699|Continuous cell lines from aquatic invertebrate species are few and the development of crustacean cell lines remains an elusive goal. Although a crayfish cell line derived from neural ganglia of Orconectes limosus was reported in 2000, this cell line OLGA-PH-J/92 failed to be authenticated as such. In this report, we describe our attempts to identify the taxonomie identity of the cell line through immunological and molecular techniques. Immunohistochemical screening for the expression of a suite of invertebrate neuropeptides gave negative results, precluding an invertebrate neural origin. PCR amplification and DNA sequencing for the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxydase I, and 18S ribosomal RNA genes that had been widely used to confirm species identity, could not confirm the OLGA-PH-J/92 cells as originating from crayfish. Subsequent attempts to identify the cells provided moderate homology (82%) to Gephyramoeba sp. (AF293897) following PCR amplification of an 18S rDNA fragment after a BLAST search. A literature search provided morphological evidence of the similarity of OLGA-PH-J/92 to the Gephyramoeba distributed by the American Type Culture Collection as ATCC 50654, which also had been misidentified and was renamed Acramoeba dendroida (Smirnov et al, Eur J Protistol 44:35-44, 2008). The morphology of the OLGA-PH-J/92 cells which remains identical to the original report (Neumann et al., In Vivo 14: 691-698, 2000) and matched corresponding micrographs that were available from the ATCC before the cell line was dropped from their catalog (ATCC CRL 1494) is very similar to A. dendroida and could thus belong to the Acramoebidae. These results unequivocally indicate that the OLGA-PH-J/92 cell line is not derived from the crayfish O. limosus, and the search for an immortal crustacean cell line continues.
4294909|The trabecular meshwork is a specialized tissue in the anterior chamber of the eye that regulates the aqueous humor outflow and controls the intraocular pressure. Cells in the trabecular meshwork are believed to be essential for maintenance of the outflow system, and their malfunctioning may lead to elevation of intraocular pressure and development of glaucoma. These cells are avid phagocytes. Using an in vitro tissue culture system, we have previously shown that bovine trabecular meshwork cells exhibited a short-term loss of cell-matrix adhesiveness after exposure to latex microspheres. The current study showed that 4 h after phagocytosis, the cytoskeletal structure in trabecular meshwork cells was disrupted, the formation of focal contact formation was limited, and the cellular migratory activity was increased. These in vitro responses paralleled those that occur in vivo. By 24 h, all the changes demonstrated returned to normal. Our data suggest that the short-term loss in cell-matrix cohesiveness observed after phagocytic challenge may be related to the reorganization of cytoskeletal structures and the decline of focal contact formation. The altered cell migration may also be interlinked.
23481768|Here, we aimed to investigate the expression of chromobox homolog 8 (CBX8) in nucleus pulposus (NP) cells from rat intervertebral disc (IVD) and its function in DNA damage and repair. NP cells were isolated from healthy rat IVD for immunohistochemistry staining. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) of CBX8 was applied for gene silencing, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to determine mRNA levels of CBX8, type II collagen, and proteoglycans. Cell proliferation and cell cycle were evaluated by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay, colony-forming assay, and flow cytometry. Hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) was added to simulate DNA oxidatie damage, and expression of CBX8 was examined using RT-PCR and Western blot. After five passages, mRNA levels of type II collagen and proteoglycans decreased but that of CBX8 increased. When CBX8 was silenced by siRNA, the expressions of CBX8, type II collagen and proteoglycans declined, and the cell growth was inhibited. Besides, cell cycle was slowed down as most cells were arrest in G0/G1 phase. Furthermore, CBX8 expression went up responding to DNA oxidative damage caused by H 2 O 2 . The data indicated that CBX8 plays important roles in cell proliferation and DNA damage. Cell proliferation and cell cycle were stimulated by CBX8, which may be associated with INK4A-ARF pathway. Moreover, CBX8 plays a role in DNA damage which made it a potential gene therapy target for treatment of disc degeneration.
40205879|Skin from Gottingen minipigs was used as a source of tissue for organ and cell culture and compared to human skin for growth conditions and sensitivity to irritants. Optimal organ culture conditions were determined, based on the preservation of the histological structure. These included serum-free, growth factor-free conditions with a calcium concentration of 1.5mM. Formulations in which the calcium concentration were low (0.075-0.15mM) failed to support tissue viability (even in the presence of dialyzed serum). Epidermal keratinocytes were grown from tissue explants and as single cells from enzyme-disrupted tissue. Optimal keratinocyte growth was achieved using a serum-free, growth factor-supplemented culture medium with a calcium concentration of 0.15mM. Fibroblasts were optimally grown from explant cultures using a medium with l.5mM calcium and 10% fetal bovine serum. The conditions that were optimal for maintenance of intact pig skin, as well as for the isolated cells, are the same conditions that have been shown previously to be optimal for intact human skin and skin cells. In additional studies, pig skin keratinocytes and fibroblasts were exposed to a panel of contact irritants and contact sensitizers. Using growth inhibition as the response, the median effective dose values with each agent were very similar to the values previously determined for human epidermal keratinocytes and human dermal fbroblasts. Taken together, these data suggest that the skin from the Gottingen minipig can be used as a surrogate for human skin in ex vivo skin safety studies.
40663752|Hepatopancreas is an important digestive and endocrine organ in crustacean. However, there are few reports on cell cultures from crabs. Here, the cell cultures of hepatopancreas from Scylla paramamosain was studied in vitro. Both the primary cell culture and subculture were grown in Leibovitz' L-15 medium, M199 medium, or a specially designed medium for S. paramamosain (MSP). The results showed that hepatopancreas cells in vitro grew in compact clusters in 2-3 d. Four types of cells could be identified. They were embryo cells, fibrillar cells, resorptive cells, and blister-like cells, respectively. Some of these cells could be subcultured for three generations. The MSP supported the best survival of these hepatopancreas cells, while M199 medium was the least effective of these three media. Fetal bovine serum and crab muscle extracts as supplements stimulated growth, but the crab hemolymph inhibited cell growth. Taken together, MSP is an appropriate medium for hepatopancreas cell cultures from S. paramamosain and can support cultures through several passages.
40205818|Isolation and purification of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from mouse via plastic adherent cultures is arduous because of the unwanted growth of hematopoietic cells and non-MSCs. In this work, homogenous populations of CD34 MSCs from mouse bone marrow were isolated via positive selection. For this purpose, C57B1/6 mice were killed and bone marrow cells were aspirated before incubation with magnetic bead conjugated to anti-CD34 antibody. A sample of positively selected CD34 cells were prepared for flow cytometry to examine the expression of CD34 antigen and others were subcultured in a 25-cm culture flask. To investigate the mesenchymal nature, the plastic adherent cultivated cells were induced to differentiate along osteoblastic and adipogenic lineages. Furthermore, the expression of some surface markers was investigated by flow cytometry. According to the result, purified populations of fibroblast-like CD34 cells were achieved in the first passage (1 wk after culture initiation). The cells expressed CD34, CD44, Sca-1, and Vcam-1 antigens (markers) but not CD11b and CD45. They were capable of differentiating into osteocytes and adipocytes. This study indicated that our protocol can result in the efficient isolation of homogenous populations of MSCs from C57BL/6 mouse bone marrow. We have shown that murine bone marrow-derived CD34 cells with plastic adherent properties and capability of differentiating into skeletal lineages in vitro are MSCs.
4295220|Creation of a shrimp cell line has been an elusive goal. This failure may be due to the composition of the cell culture medium, which may be inadequate to support primary cultured cells. Shrimp hemolymph should contain the nutritional components needed to support cell growth and division. We report here the comprehensive biochemical analysis of hemolymph from the blue shrimp, Penaeus stylirostris (Litopenaeus stylirostris) (see Holthuis, L. B. Shrimps and prawns of the world, in: FAO species catalog. Vol. 1. Rome: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; 1980), for free amino acids (FAAs), carbohydrates, electrolytes, metals, pH, and osmolality. Levels of hemolymph components were compared to 2xL-15 with 20% fetal bovine serum, a commonly used culture medium for crustacean cells. The FAAs, taurine and proline, and the metals, strontium and zinc, were significantly higher in hemolymph than in the 2xL-15 medium. In contrast, other FAAs were up to 50 times higher in the 2xL-15 medium than in the hemolymph. To mimic more closely the hemolymph composition, we created two new media based on either the 0.2xL-15 or the M199 medium. We compared the microscopic appearance of cells cultured in these media and evaluated deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and protein synthesis by
4294055|Testosterone and related steroids at physiological concentrations positively stimulate in cell culture a number of reactions in a variety of tissues from different species of animals. Cells maintained in cell culture provide a means to study toxic effects in target organs and also the mechanism of action of these steroids.
4294596|We have developed a serum-free medium for the growth and differentiation of periodontal ligament-derived cells (PLC). In addition, the expression of both fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and FGF receptor (FGFR) in the PLC was investigated by immunohistochemical examination, heparin affinity chromatography (HAC), and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. Optimal growth of the cells was achieved in Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium supplemented with insulin, transferrin, 2-mercaptoethanol, 2-ethanolamine, sodium selenite, and oleic acid in type-I collagen-coated dishes. Both FGF-1 and FGF-2 stimulated cell growth and inhibited differentiation as measured by inhibition of alkaline phosphatase activity of the cells. An immunohistochemical analysis of FGF-1 and FGF-2 revealed that immunoreactive FGF-1 and FGF-2 were detected predominantly in the cytoplasm of growing cells. In addition, perinuclear FGF-1 staining and nuclear FGF-2 staining were observed in the same growing cells. In contrast, a faint diffuse staining of FGF-1 and FGF-2 was detected in cytoplasm of the confluent differentiated cells. The 2.15 M NaCl eluate from HAC of the cell extracts exhibited growth-promoting activities for the PLC, and it also stimulated the growth of human umbilical vein-derived endothelial cells and inhibited binding of
4295393|We characterized bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC) continuously cultured in the rotating wall vessel (RWV) bioreactor for up to 30 d. Cultures grew as large tissue-like aggregates (containing 20 or more beads) after 30 d. These cultures appeared to be growing in multilayers around the aggregates, where single beads were covered with confluent BAEC, which displayed the typical endothelial cell (EC) morphology. The 30-d multibead aggregate cultures have a different and smoother surface when viewed under a higher-magnification scanning electron microscope. Transmission electron microscopy of these large BAEC aggregates showed that the cells were viable and formed multilayered sheets that were separated by an extracellular space containing matrix-like material. These three-dimensional cultures also were found to have a basal production of nitric oxide (NO) that was 10-fold higher for the RWV than for the Spinner flask bioreactor (SFB). The BAEC in the RWV showed increased basal NO production, which was dependent on the RWV rotation rate: 73% increase at 8 rpm, 262% increase at 15 rpm, and 500% increase at 20 rpm as compared with control SFB cultures. The addition of L-arginine to the RWV cultures resulted in a fourfold increase in NO production over untreated RWV cultures, which was completely blocked by L-NAME [N(G)-nitro-L-arginine-methylester]. Cells in the SFB responded similarly. The RWV cultures showed an increase in barrier properties with an up-regulation of tight junction protein expression. We believe that this study is the first report of a unique growth pattern for ECs, resulting in enhanced NO production and barrier properties, and it suggests that RWV provides a unique model for investigating EC biology and differentiated function.
24596458|Malignant gliomas are treated with a combination of surgery, radiation, and temozolomide (TMZ), but these therapies ultimately fail due to tumor recurrence. In this study, we aimed to identify the combined effects of miR-125b and TMZ involved in the invasive pathogenesis of glioblastoma cells. The effects of miR-125b and TMZ on cell invasion were analyzed by Transwell assays. Unexpectedly, either overexpression or downregulation of miR-125b has no function on glioblastoma cell invasion. However, knockdown of miR-125b could enhance the effects of TMZ on glioblastoma cell invasion. Conversely, overexpression of miR-125b could decrease such effects of TMZ. Further research on the mechanism demonstrated that such function of miR-125b knockdown on enhancing the effects of TMZ was involved in downregulation of Notch1. Notch1 was overexpressed in glioblastoma cells, and found by us that downregulation of Notch1 expression decreased the cell invasion of glioblastoma cells. Knockdown of miR-125b combined with TMZ enhancely downregulated Notch1 and inhibited cell invasion of malignant glioblastoma. These findings indicate that the combination of miR-125b inhibitor and TMZ treatment could effectively inhibit the glioblastoma cell invasion by inhibiting Notch1 expression.
40663800|This report summarises our efforts in deriving, characterising and banking of 20 different human embryonic stem cell lines. We have derived a large number of human embryonic stem cell lines between 2001 and 2005. One of these cell lines was established under totally xeno-free culture conditions. In addition, several subclones have been established, including a karyoptypical normal clone from a trisomie mother line. A master cell banking system has been utilised in concert with an extensive characterisation programme, ensuring a supply of high quality pluripotent stem cells for further research and development. In this report we also present the first data on a proprietary novel antibody, hES-Cellect, that exhibits high specificity for undifferentiated hES cells. In addition to the traditional manual dissection approach of propagating hES cells, we here also report on the successful approaches of feeder-free cultures as well as single cell cultures based on enzymatic digestion. All culture systems used as reported here have maintained the hES cells in a karyotypical normal and pluripotent state. These systems also have the advantage of being the principal springboards for further scale up of cultures for industrial or clinical applications that would require vastly more cells that can be produced by mechanical means.
20616572|Cryopreservation of mammalian oocytes is an important way to provide a steady source of materials for research and practice of parthenogenetic activation, in vitro fertilization, and nuclear transfer. However, oocytes cryopreservation has not been common used, as there still are some problems waiting to be solved on the repeatability, safety, and validity. Then, it is necessary to investigate the damage occurred from vitrification and find a way to avoid or repair it. In this study, mouse mature oocytes were firstly pretreated in different equilibrium media, such as 5% ethylene glycol (EG) + 5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), 10% EG + 10% DMSO, and 15% EG + 15% DMSO in TCM199 supplemented with 20% fetal calf serum (FCS), for 1, 3, and 5 min, respectively, and then oocytes were transferred into vitrification solution (20% EG, 20% DMSO, 0.3 M sucrose, and 20% FCS in TCM199, M2, Dulbecco's phosphate buffered saline, and 0.9% saline medium, respectively) and immediately loaded into glass capillaries to be plunged into liquid nitrogen. After storage from 1 h to 1 wk, they were diluted in stepwise sucrose solutions. The surviving oocytes were stained for cortical granule, meiotic spindles, and chromosomes. Oocytes without treatments were used as controls. The results showed that oocytes pretreated in 5% EG +5% DMSO group for 3-5 min or in 10% EG + 10% DMSO group for 1-3 min were better than other treatments. Oocytes vitrified in TCM199 as basic medium showed higher survival and better subsequent embryonic development than other groups. When the concentration of FCS in vitrification solution reduced below 15%, the rates of survival, fertilization, and developing to blastocyst declined dramatically. The inner diameter (0.6 mm) of glass capillaries and amount of vitrification solution (1-3 l) achieved more rapid cooling and warming and so reduce the injury to oocytes. Cropreservation led to the exocytosis of cortical granule of oocytes (about 10%) and serious disturbance of microtubules and chromosomes. With 2 h incubation, the microtubules could repolymerize and the rate of fertilization in vitro was much higher than those of 1 and 3 h incubation groups. In conclusion, the protection of basic medium and FCS to oocytes during cryopreservation and sufficient cooling and warming rates using glass capillaries have profound effects on oocytes survival and subsequent embryonic development competence. The appropriate time for fertilization in vitro may be related to the recovery of spindles after incubation and avoiding ageing in the whole process.
4294276|Blocks of breast tissue obtained during radical mastectomies from 23 patients with mammary gland carcinomas were used for cultivation in native-state, gel-supported histocultures. We show that the human mammary gland can be successfully maintained in this system so that normal epithelial breast structures proliferate and undergo differentiation for several weeks and a well-developed system of ducts and lobules is formed. Using antibodies to individual keratins 17 and 8 we have shown for the first time that ducts and alveoles developing in vitro undergo differentiation into the lining epithelium and myoepithelium in the same way as mammary gland epithelium in vivo. Growth of epithelial structures in vitro is also accompanied by the development of continuous basal membrane.
4294327|There is indirect evidence that the in vivo proliferative response of rodent uterine epithelium to estrogen requires interaction with the underlying stroma in pre- and post-pubescent animals. To examine this potential requirement directly, the proliferative response of epithelium to
4295143|This study was undertaken in order to examine the estrogen sensitivity of HKT-1097, an established cell line recently derived from diethylstilbestrol (DES)-induced kidney tumors in Syrian hamsters. Estrogen receptor (ER) level in HKT-1097, determined by enzyme-linked immunoassay, was 67 fmol/mg protein, i.e., a value approx. 30% lower than that found in Syrian hamster kidney tumors. ER immunostaining in cells fixed with Carnoy's mixture, as well as ER demonstration by Western blotting, suggested DES-induced nuclear translocation or stabilization of the receptor within the nucleus. Kinetic parameters of estrogen binding to ER in HKT-1097 cells were
4294593|A chemically defined culture medium was developed to support the growth of two distinctly different types of normal human breast epithelial cells (HBEC) derived from reduction mammoplasty. Type I cells expressed luminal epithelial cell markers and were deficient in gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC), whereas Type II cells expressed basal epithelial cell markers and were efficient in GJIC. In this study, we examined and compared the growth factor and hormone requirements of these two types of cells and a series of cell lines that were obtained by sequential transfection with SV40 DNA (extended lifespan, nontumorigenic), treatment with 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)/black light (immortal and weakly tumorigenic), and infection of a virus carrying the neu oncogene (highly tumorigenic). Growth of Type I cells was inhibited by withdrawing epidermal growth factor (EGF), hydrocortisone (HC), or insulin (INS) from the culture media, but was enhanced by fetal bovine serum (FBS) supplementation. Growth of Type II cells was inhibited by withdrawal of EGF, HC, or INS from the media, and was inhibited by FBS supplementation. Withdrawal of human transferrin (HT) or
20172259|Reepithelialization of artificial partial thickness wounds made in biopsies of human skin was determined after 3, 5, or 7 d of incubation, submerged or elevated to the air-liquid interface. The biopsies were reepithelialized within 5-7 d, with a more complete epidermal healing in wounds exposed to air. Both types of wounds showed similar time-course in deposition of basement membrane components, as detected by immunofluorescence labeling. Laminin and collagen type VII were deposited underneath the migrating tips, whereas collagen type IV was detected after reepithelialization. Markers of terminal differentiation showed a pattern close to normal in the air-liquid incubated wounds after reepithelialization. Involucrin was detected in the suprabasal regions of the migrating epidermis and thereafter in the upper half of neo-epidermis in the air-liquid incubated wound. Filaggrin could not be detected in the submerged wounds at any time during healing, whereas wounds exposed to air showed a well-differentiated epidermis by Day 7. Tritiated thymidine-incorporation indicated proliferation of epidermal and dermal cells during reepithelialization and a maintained viability, as shown by cultivation of endothelial- and fibroblast-like cells obtained from the dermis 7 d after wounding. Reepithelialization in this human in vitro model is supported by a matrix close to normal with the possibility of extracellular influences and cell-cell interactions and, in addition, the technique is simple and reproducible. Therefore, we suggest this model for studies of regeneration in culture and as a complement to in vivo studies on epidermal healing.
4295685|T lymphocytes cultured under the low-shear stress environment of modeled microgravity demonstrate an inhibition of activation in response to T-cell receptor (TCR)-mediated signaling. Modeled microgravity culture-induced inhibition mimics the inhibition observed during spaceflight. This work investigates the molecular signaling events of interleukin 2 transcription activation in modeled microgravity as generated with clinorotation. Under normal conditions, NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells) is dephosphorylated and activated with sustained calcium (Ca
4295553|HeLa was the first human cell line established (1952) and became one of the most frequently used lines because of its hardiness and rapid growth rate. During the next two decades, the development of other human cell lines mushroomed. One reason for this became apparent during the 1970s, when it was demonstrated that many of these cell lines had been overgrown and replaced by fast-growing HeLa cells inadvertently introduced into the original cultures. Although the discovery of these "HeLa contaminants" prompted immediate alarm, how aware are cell culturists today of the threat of cell line cross-contamination? To answer this question, we performed a literature search and conducted a survey of 483 mammalian cell culturists to determine how many were using HeLa contaminants without being aware of their true identity and how many were not using available means to ensure correct identity. Survey respondents included scientists, staff, and graduate students in 48 countries. HeLa cells were used by 32% and HeLa contaminants by 9% of survey respondents. Most were also using other cell lines; yet, only about a third of respondents were testing their lines for cell identity. Of all the cell lines used, 35% had been obtained from another laboratory instead of from a repository, thus increasing the risk of false identity. Over 220 publications were found in the PubMed database (1969-2004) in which HeLa contaminants were used as a model for the tissue type of the original cell line. Overall, the results of this study indicate a lack of vigilance in cell acquisition and identity testing. Some researchers are still using HeLa contaminants without apparent awareness of their true identity. The consequences of cell line cross-contamination can be spurious scientific conclusions; its prevention can save time, resources, and scientific reputations.
40205840|Side-population (SP) cells have been shown to be highly enriched stem cells. We investigated whether an immortalized, nontumorigenic human liver cell line, THLE-5b, contains SP cells. Flow cytometry analysis after Hoechst 33342 staining demonstrated that the THLE-5b line contained a small component of SP cells. These SP cells were essentially eliminated by treatment with verapamil and expressed higher levels of ABCG2 mRNA than non-SP cells. In addition, the level of these SP cells detected by Hoechst 33342 staining was affected by the experimental conditions including the incubation medium. This is the first report of the presence of SP cells in the immortalized, nontumorigenic human liver cell line.
4294209|The morphologic and functional properties of explant out-growth cells and epithelial cells isolated from swine trachea epithelium by proteolysis were examined. A mixed population of ciliated, serous, and basal cells, obtained from outgrowths, from proteolysis of trachea epithelium, and from unattached explants in organ culture, all yielded cell cultures that were composed almost entirely of mucus-secreting cells. When the cells were grown in primary or secondary culture on a modified collagen matrix in supplemented HAM:DMEM (1:1) medium they expressed a mucus-secreting phenotype with numerous mucus granules at various stages of maturation and incorporated
40205830|Chitosan was used as a matrix to induce three-dimensional spheroids of HepG2 cells. Chitosan films were prepared and used for culturing HepG2 cells. Attachment kinetics of the cells was studied on the chitosan films. The optimum seeding density of the Hep G2 cells, required for three-dimensional spheroid formation was determined and was found to be 510/ml. The growth kinetics of Hep G2 cells was studied using (3-(4, 5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) (MTT) assay, and morphology of the cells was studied through optical photographs taken at various days of culture. The liver cell functions of the spheroids were determined by measuring albumin and urea secretions. The results obtained from these studies have shown that the culture of Hep G2 cells on chitosan matrix taking appropriate seeding density resulted in the formation of three-dimensional spheroids and exhibited higher amount of albumin and urea synthesis compared to monolayer culture. These miniature "liver tissue like" models can be used for in vitro tissue engineering applications like preliminary evaluation of the toxicity of drugs and chemicals.
20869548|Embryonic stem (ES) cells have been investigated in many animal models of severe injury and degenerative disease. However, few studies have examined the ability of ES cells to improve functional outcome following mammary gland injury. This study investigates the feasibility of implanting mouse ES cells labeled with enhanced green fluorescence protein in the developing mammary glands in order to acquire lineage-committed cells in mammary (mammary gland epithelial cell or luminal cell). Cells implanted in high numbers (5  10 cells per mammary gland) survived in the majority of the mice and nearly 38.4% of the surviving cells were CK18 at 15th week following the transplantation. Our results may provide a technique instrument on advanced therapy of breast diseases and the mammary regeneration after breast ablated partly.
24596456|Epidermal stem cells (ESCs) play an important role in skin homeostasis, wound repair, and tumorigensis which have great potential in scientific research and clinical application. So, the efficient isolation of these infrequent stem cells is very important for researchers to solve the problem of low purity and insufficient quantity of stem cells in vitro. The aim of this study was to investigate a method for the enrichment of ESCs by magnetic activated cell sorting system. The isolation strategy was CD71 depletion followed by 6-integrin positive selection. The percentage of 6briCD71dim cells in isolated cells was 94.59%. Transmission electron microscopy results revealed that 6bri CD71dim cells exhibited some typical characteristics like progenitor cells, such as big nucleus, obvious nucleolus, large nuclearcytoplasm ratio, and few organelles in cytoplasm. When cultured in vitro, the 6briCD71dim cells had greater proliferating potential and higher colony-forming ability, and high levels of epidermal stem cell markers were expressed in our positive cells. ESCs have been successfully isolated from neonatal epidermis using Vario MACS and cultured in vitro. This isolation method is simple, fast, and inexpensive, providing an important tool for tissue engineering and cell transplantation studies.
4295597|Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling regulates a variety of cellular functions, including proliferation, gene expression, and differentiation. Infection of laryngeal epithelial cells by human papillomaviruses causes recurrent respiratory papillomas, benign tumors characterized by an altered pattern of differentiation. Papilloma cells overexpress the EGFR and have constitutively active extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and enhanced phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity, but overexpression of the lipid phosphatase PTEN (Phosphatase and Tensin Homolog) reduces activation of Akt by PI3K. We hypothesized that the altered differentiation of papillomas reflects these changes in signaling from the EGFR-ERK and PI3K-Akt pathways and that one or both of these pathways is required for the normal differentiation process in mucosal epithelium. Inhibiting either the enzymatic activity or the synthesis of PI3K in uninfected laryngeal cells blocked expression of keratin-13 (K13), a protein induced during normal differentiation. In contrast, inhibiting activation of ERK had minimal effect. Using ribonucleic acid interference to reduce protein levels of integrin-linked kinase 1 or phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1, intermediates in the activation of Akt by PI3K, or reducing levels of Akt-1 itself did not inhibit K13 expression by normal laryngeal keratinocytes. We conclude that PI3K activation is an important regulator of expression of K13, a marker for the normal differentiation process in human mucosal keratinocytes, that this function does not require activation of Akt-1, and that the failure to express K13 in papilloma cells is not because of reduction in activated Akt.
23353422|During erythropoiesis, some organelles such as mitochondria and nucleus are lost by autophagy and enucleation processes in the presence of macrophages in vivo. In vitro production of erythrocytes has raised many questions about the mechanism of enucleation. The aim of this work was to study the DNA breakdown, enucleation, hemoglobin synthesis and telomerase activity of K562 cells during erythroid differentiation. For these purposes, K562 cells were induced to differentiate by erythropoietin + rhGM-CSF, DMSO, and sodium butyrate separately up to 14 d. In different time intervals, hemoglobin synthesis was evaluated by benzidine staining and RT-PCR for -globin gene expression. DNA breakdown was analyzed by 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining, DNA ladder electrophoresis and comet assay. The telomerase activity was evaluated by TRAP assay. Our result indicated that, sodium butyrate and DMSO inhibited K562 cell growth about 5060% in comparison to untreated control cells. The percentage of benzidine-positive cells was about 45% in the presence of sodium butyrate after 10 d. Densitometric analysis of RT-PCR and calculated data indicated a 1.5-fold increase in relative -globin gene expression at 96 h, in the presence of 1 mM sodium butyrate in comparison with untreated cells. DAPI staining did not reveal any evidence of internal lysis of the nucleus during erythroid differentiation at first wk, but this was obvious in the second wk. DNA laddering pattern was not observed in differentiated cells during 14 d. In comet assay, the percentage of DNA in tail, tail length, and tail moment were significantly different between untreated and treated cells (p<0.05). Telomerase activity was inhibited up to 90.3% during erythroid differentiation of these cells.
4295413| The use of animal serum in cell culture is vital for providing the nutrient factors required to promote proliferation and function. Fetal calf serum has become the preferred choice because of its abundance, reasonable cost, and ability to sustain human cells in vitro. Although a wide variety of serum sources have been tested and used, little is known about the ability of serum obtained from the American black bear (Ursus americanus) to support human cell growth in culture. The American black bear, an animal comparable in size to humans, is unique in that it hibernates for mo at a time but does not experience extensive bone loss normally associated with extended immobility. The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of bear serum on human osteoblast cultures. We discovered that three of the eight bear serum samples induced significantly higher proliferation rates in osteoblasts than did fetal calf serum over a 24-h period. Osteoblasts incubated in bear serum displayed higher messenger ribonucleic acid levels for phenotype markers osteocalcin and type I collagen than did those incubated in fetal calf serum. The mitogenic activity of the bear serum was reduced when heated at 56 C for 30 min before use in culture. The molecular weight of the mitogenic factors was found to be primarily greater than 50 kDa. The present work demonstrates the capability of serum from American black bears to support human osteoblast proliferation in vitro. 
4294426|Identifying the causal events and temporal aspects of lung cancer development requires the ability to isolate target and nontarget cells for comparative analyses. Current methodology can either isolate only one pure specific cell population from a lung or multiple cell types at lower purity. Previous studies in our laboratory have identified the alveolar type II cell as the progenitor cell for tumor development in the A/J mouse. The purpose of this study was to develop new protocols for the isolation and culture of type II and Clara cells from the mouse lung. Both type II and Clara cells were obtained in high purity using a sequential centrifugal elutriation protocol. In the first elutriation, cell fractions were collected using a Standard chamber. The type II and Clara cell fractions were then elutriated separately (two different separations) using a Sanderson chamber. The final purity of the type II and Clara cell preparations was 73% and 76%, respectively. Colonies of 4 to 20 Clara cells exhibiting epithelial morphology were evident 1 wk after plating in low serum medium. The growth of type II cells required the addition of bronchioalveolar lavage fluid and acidic fibroblast growth factor to the medium. The isolation of viable mouse type II and Clara cells in high purity should facilitate the identification of cell-specific changes in gene expressions or in enzymatic pathways following in vivo or in vitro exposure to environmental carcinogens.
4294799| To develop a new gene therapy model for cancer, a clonal cell line (KMST-6/TNF) which produces human tumor necrosis factor a (hTNF-) has been developed by introducing hTNF- cDNA into a human immortal fibroblast cell line (KMST-6). The conditioned medium (CM) of KMST-6/TNF cells inhibited the growth of various malignant human cell lines, but not that of normal human fibroblasts. Although the growth inhibitory effects of KMST-6/TNF CM were neutralized to a considerable degree by anti-TNF- antibody, its inhibitory effects were more marked than the purified human natural TNF- itself in the same units, suggesting that KMST-6/TNF CM contains some growth inhibitory substances other than TNF-. However, interferons , , and  were undetectable in the KMST-6/TNF CM. 
4295490|Bovine pituitary extract (BPE) is routinely used as a mitogenic supplement in serum-free growth medium. In addition to its mitogenic activity, BPE contains a variety of growth factors and hormones with reported antioxidant activity. This study examines the antioxidant potential of BPE in nontumorigenic human prostate epithelial cells (RWPE-1). Treatment of RWPE-1 cells with BPE
41417646|Reprogramming of somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) provides an important cell source to derive patient-specific cells for potential therapeutic applications. However, it is not yet clear whether reprogramming through pluripotency allows the production of differentiated cells with improved functional properties that may be beneficial in regenerative therapies. To address this, we compared the production and assembly of extracellular matrix (ECM) by iPSC-derived fibroblasts to that of the parental, dermal fibroblasts (BJ), from which these iPSC were initially reprogrammed, and to fibroblasts differentiated from human embryonic stem cells (hESC). iPSC-and hESC-derived fibroblasts demonstrated stable expression of surface markers characteristic of stromal fibroblasts during prolonged culture and showed an elevated growth potential when compared to the parental BJ fibroblasts. We found that in the presence of L-ascorbic acid-2-phosphate, iPSC-and hESC-derived fibroblasts increased their expression of collagen genes, secretion of soluble collagen, and extracellular deposition of type I collagen to a significantly greater degree than that seen in the parental BJ fibroblasts. Under culture conditions that enabled the self-assembly of a 3D stromal tissue, iPSC-and hESC-derived fibroblasts generated a well organized, ECM that was enriched in type III collagen. By characterizing the functional properties of iPSC-derived fibroblasts compared to their parental fibroblasts, we demonstrate that these cells represent a promising, alternative source of fibroblasts to advance future regenerative therapies.
4295468|Using primers for the MCT118, YNZ22, and COL2A1 loci in polymerase chain reaction analysis we could distinguish among the ~20 cell lines routinely maintained in our laboratory. We also demonstrated that the cell line NB-1691 (a neuroblastoma) and its xenograft had an identical number of repeats at two loci. Rh30 (a rhabdomyosarcoma) made resistant to rapamycin was identical to its parent line and to a subline that had reverted to sensitivity after it was cultured without rapamycin in the medium.
4295458|Production of effective vaccine formulations is dependent on the availability of assays for the measurement of protective immune responses. The development and standardization of in vitro human cell-based assays for functional opsonophagocytic antibodies require critical evaluation and optimization of the preparation of cells for the assay. We report evaluation of a number of protocols with two continuous cell lines (NB-4 and HL-60) for the provision of differentiated cells for use in functional assays. Flow cytometric analysis of CD11b antigen expression, as a marker of differentiation, indicated that all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) gave improved differentiation (>80% of cells differentiated at 96 h) when compared with dimethylformamide (DMF) (<60% of cells differentiated at 96 h). Morphological changes during differentiation toward a neutrophil-like phenotype were assessed by scanning electron microscopy. HL-60 and NB-4 cells treated with ATRA showed more spreading and flattening than cells treated with DMF, further evidence that they may have achieved a more differentiated phenotype. The number of cell divisions in culture appeared to be critical because cell lines maintained in exponential growth for >40 passages failed to express CDllb antigen or show morphological changes associated with differentiation after exposure to either differentiation-inducing reagent. Late-passage cells also demonstrated increased tolerance to DMF. Our results indicated that ATRA supplemented with vitamin D
40802403|In real-time quantitative PCR, the accuracy of normalized data is highly dependent on the stability of the reference genes. However, reference gene expression in a given cell type or experimental condition can vary considerably. The goal of this study was to establish a reliable set of reference genes for real-time PCR studies using human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells with long-term in vitro expansion. The stability of ten potential reference genes was examined in human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells. We found that Ywhaz and Rpl13a, not beta-actin or Gapdh, were the most stably expressed of the internal control genes in different passages of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells. Ywhaz and Rpl13a could be used as reference genes for relative gene quantification and normalization purposes in real-time PCR studies of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells.
4295257| Keratins form the largest subfamily of intermediate filament proteins and show strict lineage- and differentiation-associated expression in epithelial cells. Little is known about the mechanisms that control keratin protein synthesis in these cells. We have examined the effect of the differentiation-modulating agent, 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), on keratin 19 (K19) expression in two human lung carcinoma cell lines, DLKP and A549. Treatment of both cell lines with 10 M BrdU for 7 d induced the expression of K19 protein in keratin-negative DLKP cells, and significantly increased K19 protein expression in A549 cells. K19 messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) were detected by Northern blot and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analyses in both cell lines, but no increase in K19 mRNA levels was detected in either cell line, even with treatment with BrdU for up to 21 d. This suggests that K19 protein synthesis is normally blocked at a posttranscriptional level in DLKP cells, and BrdU can somehow reverse this block, resulting in the induction of K19 protein synthesis. Treatment of HL60, a leukemic cell line, with BrdU, resulted in noninduction of K19 protein synthesis, and no K19 mRNA transcripts were detected before and after BrdU treatment, possibly suggesting that BrdU is acting in an epithelial-specific manner to reverse a block in K19 protein synthesis in DLKP keratin-negative lung cancer cells. Therefore, DLKP (and A549) may be useful cellular models to investigate if this represents a regulatory step in early lung development or a mechanism whereby tumor cells possess the ability to down-regulate the expression of a more-differentiated phenotype. 
4294680|This study describes the establishment and characterization of an immortalized cell line derived from the pancreas of an adult
20460118|To better understand the mechanisms of both normal reendothelialization and neointimal hyperplasia following injury, human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMEC) were isolated from neonatal foreskin and studied in an in vitro model of the microvascular endothelium. In a standard 3-mm wound of nonproliferative HDMEC cultures, reendothelialization was complete at 32 h at a 20.8% (atmospheric) O level. Inhibition of mitosis by mitomycin C did not reduce reendothelialization and both actinomycin D and cycloheximide inhibited repair by 80%. To determine if signals from injured cells communicated with noninjured cells, diffusion of the dye Lucifer Yellow was followed into injured and surrounding noninjured HDMEC. Diffusion was increased into both injured and noninjured cells, indicating a role for gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) in HDMEC wound repair. To determine if a more physiologic O tension (5%) also increased vascular repair, reendothelialization at 5% O was compared to 20.8% O (atmospheric) levels and found to be increased by up to 50% at 5% O at 12 and 24 h postinjury. I-kappa B alpha, the inhibitory subunit of NF-kappa B (a transcription factor activated by oxidative stress), was upregulated following wounding. Retroviral transfection of I-kappa B alpha into HDMEC increased the rate of reendothelialization by 35%, supporting an inhibitory role for NF-kappa B in the control of HDMEC migration.
24712900|To explore the responses of host cell after infection with live Salmonella compared with phagocytosis to dead bacteria, the responses of mouse macrophage after infection with Salmonella enteritidis C50041 and the fixed C50041 (C50041-d) were analyzed. Results indicated that the cytotoxicity induced by C50041 was stronger than C50041-d. Similar changing trends of mitochondrial membrane potential, intracellular concentration of calcium ions, reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide were found between C50041 and C50041-d infection. But the cell responses against C50041 were earlier and stronger than C50041-d. LC3 expression of macrophage induced by C50041 was lower than C50041-d. C50041 significantly inhibited the production of tumor necrosis factor and interleukin (IL)-6. Whereas intracellular caspase-1 activation and IL-1 release induced by C50041 were stronger than C50041-d, caspase-1 activation and IL-1 release are the innate defense responses of macrophage. Therefore, it will be beneficial to explore the use of this pathway in the control of Salmonella infection.
4294887|Our aim was to examine whether lipopolysaccharide of Escherichia coli, polyamines of dietetic and/or bacterial origin, and products of the bacterial metabolism influence cell proliferation in epithelial cells from the colon and small intestine. Lipopolysaccharide of Escherichia coli 0111:B4 was incubated with cultures from human colonic mucosa. The mitoses were arrested with Vincristine and the total number of metaphases per crypt was counted. In addition, lipopolysaccharide was incubated with a human colonic epithelial cell line from adenocarcinoma (LS-123 cells) and with a nontransformed small intestinal cell line from germ-free rats (IEC-6 cells) for 24 h. In the last 4 h, the cells were labeled with tritiated thymidine. The cells were incubated with putrescine, cadaverine, and spermidine at
4294676|The microvasculature of the developing brain is plastic and responds differently to the many insults associated with preterm birth. We developed three-dimensional in vitro culture models for the study of the responses of the developing cerebral microvasculature. Beagle brain microvascular endothelial cells (BBMEC) were isolated by differential centrifugation from newborn beagle pups on postnatal Day 1 and placed in three-dimensional culture dispersed in a collagen gel. Alternatively, BBMEC were placed in a three-dimensional coculture with neonatal rat forebrain astrocytes. Cultures were analyzed for extracellular matrix components at 1 and 6 d, and total RNA was extracted for Northern analyses. Urokinase plasminogen activator activity was assayed in both mono- and cocultures of the two cell types. Studies of three-dimensional BBMEC/astrocyte cocultures demonstrated progressive tube formation with only low levels of endothelial proliferation. By 6 d in three-dimensional coculture, the BBMEC formed capillarylike tubes with a wrapping of glial processes, and basement membrane protein synthesis was noted. Urokinase plasminogen zymography suggested intercellular signaling by the two cell types. These data suggest that the three-dimensional beagle brain germinal matrix microvascular endothelial cell/neonatal rat astrocyte coculture provides a good model for the investigation of microvascular responses in the developing brain.
4294899|Cell cycle synchronization of tumor cells by exposure to hyperbaric oxygenation (HBO) may increase the efficacy of chemotherapy or radiation by placing cells into a chemosensitive portion of the cycle. The purpose of the current study was to examine oxygen pressure-dependent relationships with respect to the cell cycle in prostate tumor cells in vitro. LNCaP cells were grown in an incubator at 21% O
40802396|Therapeutic administration of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) by systemic delivery utilizes the innate ability of the cells to home to damaged tissues, but it can be an inefficient process due to a limited knowledge of cellular cues that regulate migration and homing. Our lab recently discovered that a potent pro-inflammatory cytokine, macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), inhibits MSC migration. Because MIF may act on multiple cellular targets, an activating antibody (CD74Ab) was employed in this study to examine the effect of one MIF receptor, CD74 (major histocompatibility complex class II-associated invariant chain), on MSC motility. CD74 activation inhibits in a dosedependent manner up to 90% of in vitro migration of MSCs at 40 g/ml CD74Ab (p<0.001), with consistent effects observed among three MSC donor preparations. A blocking peptide from the C-terminus of CD74 eliminates the effect of CD74Ab on MSCs. This suggests that MIF may act on MSCs, at least in part, through CD74. Late-passage MSCs exhibit less chemokinesis than those at passage 2. However, MSCs remain responsive to CD74 activation during ex vivo expansion: MSC migration is inhibited ~2-fold in the presence of 5 g/ml CD74Ab at passage 9 vs. ~3-fold at passage 2 (p<0.001). Consistent with this result, there were no significant differences in CD74 expression at all tested passages or after CD74Ab exposure. Targeting CD74 to regulate migration and homing potentially may be a useful strategy to improve the efficacy of a variety of MSC therapies, including those that require ex vivo expansion.
4294464|Chinese hamster ovary cells were synchronized into purified populations of viable G1-, S-, G2-, and M-phase cells by a combination of methods, including growth arrest, aphidicolin block, cell cycle progression, mitotic shake-off, and centrifugal elutriation. The DNA content and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd) labeling index were measured in each purified fraction by dual-parameter flow cytometry. The cell cycle distributions determined from the DNA measurements alone (single parameter) were compared with those calculated from both DNA and BrdUrd data (dual parameter). The results show that highly purified cells can be obtained using these methods, but the assessed purity depends on the method of cell cycle analysis. Using the single versus dual parameter measurement to determine cell cycle distributions gave similar results for most phases of the cell cycle, except for cells near the transition from G1- to S-phase and S- to G2-phase. There the BrdUrd labeling index determined by flow cytometry was more sensitive for detecting small amounts of DNA synthesis. As an alternative to flow cytometry, a simple method of measuring BrdUrd labeling index on cell smears was used and gave the same result as flow cytometry. Measuring both DNA content and DNA synthesis improves characterization of synchronized cell populations, especially at the transitions in and out of S-phase, when cells are undergoing dramatic shifts in biochemical activity.
23353410|Rapid and reliable toxicity assessment of oil sands process-affected waters (OSPW) is needed to support oil sands reclamation projects. Conventional toxicity tests using whole animals are relatively slow, costly, and often subjective, while at the same time requiring the sacrifice of test organisms as is the case with lethal dosage/concentration assays. A nonlethal alternative, using fish cell lines, has been developed for its potential use in supporting oil sands reclamation planning and to help predict the viability of aquatic reclamation models such as end-pit lakes. This study employed six fish cell lines (WF-2, GFSk-S1, RTL-W1, RTgill-W1, FHML, FHMT) in 24 h viability assays for rapid fluorometric assessment of cellular integrity and functionality. Forty-nine test water samples collected from the surface of oil sands developments in the Athabasca Oil Sands deposit, north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, were evaluated in blind. Small subsample volumes (8 ml) were mixed with 2 ml of 5 concentrated exposure media and used for direct cell exposures. All cell line responses in terms of viability as measured by Alamar blue assay, correlated well with the naphthenic acids (NA) content in the samples (R 2 between 0.4519 and 0.6171; p<0.0001) when data comparisons were performed after the bioassays. NA or total acid-extractable organics group has been shown to be responsible for most of the acute toxicity of OSPW and our results further corroborate this. The multifish cell line bioassay provides a strong degree of reproducibility among tested cell lines and good relative sensitivity of the cell line bioassay as compared to available in vivo data that could lead to cost effective, high-throughput screening assays.
4295625| This study was performed to evaluate the isomer-specific cytotoxic effects of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) on rat hepatoma dRLh-84 cells in vitro. A 10trans,12cis (10t,12c)-CLA showed a strong cytotoxic effect on dRLh-84 cells in culture, whereas no such effect was observed with 9cis,11trans (9c,11t)-CLA or linoleic acid. The optimum concentration for induction of cytotoxity by 10t,12c-CLA was 5 to 10 M, but the effect was alleviated at higher concentrations. Coincubation with oleic or palmitoleic acid and 10t,12c-CLA cancelled the cytotoxic effect, but other major saturated or polyunsaturated fatty acids and eraidic acid did not interfere with 10t,12c-CLA-induced cytotoxity. The cytotoxic effect was also alleviated by -tocopherol (-toc) and -tocotrienol but not by any other antioxidant regent examined. Significant cytotoxity of 10t,12c-CLA was detected after only a 15-min incubation, and the most noticeable effect was seen after 3 h. After incubation with 10t,12c-CLA at 10 M, an additional 90 M of 10t,12c-CLA or 100 M of -toc was also able to alleviate the cytotoxity. When cells were treated with 10 M 10t,12c-CLA for more than 48 h, treatment with additional CLA or -toc could not prevent cell death. 
4295670| The -irradiation of normal cells causes an increased synthesis of specific proteins. However, few studies have described the effects of high doses of irradiation on the expression of cell surface antigens in tumor cells. This study analyzed the effects of high doses of -irradiation on the surface antigen expression of Major Histocompatability Complex (MHC) class I/II and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-I) in human multiple myeloma (MM) cell lines ARP-1, ARK-RS, and 10 MM primary tumors. The expression of surface antigens was evaluated by fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis at different time points, following the exposure to high doses of -irradiation. Doses of 10,000 and 15,000 cGy were not sufficient to totally block cell replication in both cell lines and primary tumors; cell replication was able to be inhibited completely only at 18,000 cGy. Lower doses (10,000 cGy) and lethal doses of irradiation (i.e., 15,000 and 18,000 cGy) increased the expression of all surface antigens present on the cells before irradiation. Essentially, such upregulation was shown to be dose dependent, with higher radiation doses resulting in higher antigen expression. Furthermore, when the kinetics of this upregulation were studied 3 and 6 d after irradiation, there was a constant increase in antigen expression in MM cells. These findings suggest that upregulation of costimulatory molecules, such as of MHC class I/II antigens and ICAM-I molecules in MM patients treated by -radiation, can increase the immunogenicity of the tumor cells. In light of these findings, radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy might be considered in relapsing patients after receiving the standard treatment. 
4295579|We present a convenient method for monitoring pancreatic beta cell development in real-time, through in vitro culture of embryonic pancreatic explants from transgenic mice with a genetic tag for insulin-producing beta cells.
20869565|Live animals have been produced recently from animal tissues preserved for decades at frozen temperatures with or without cryoprotectants. However, the tissues in these studies were cryopreserved within few hours of animal death to obtain culturable live cells as nuclear donors. How long the tissues can be left unfrozen after animal death, without losing the viability and potential to in vitro culture with comparable morphology and proliferative rate as the fresh tissues, is not completely understood. To understand this phenomenon, ear skin samples from individual sheep (n=3) were procured from slaughter plant and stored at 4C. After various intervals (2, 8, 24, 32, 48, and 56 h after slaughter), 23 mm pieces (n=10) of skin samples were cultured for 12 d on two dishes (60 mm) for each sheep. Outgrowth of fibroblast-like cells was observed as early as day 4 of culture and was visible on dishes of all time points including 56 h by day 10. The number of outgrowing cells decreased with increasing time interval between animal slaughter and culture initiation. Secondary cultures were successfully established for all the time points. All cultures proliferated well and were apparently normal. Passage 2 cultures of 2 h and 56 h interval for one of the three sheep were compared for their growth pattern and proliferation rates. The population doubling time of 2 h and 56 h intervals was 33.12 and 34.8 h, respectively, and both the lines exhibited similar cell morphology and an "S"-shaped growth curve. These results suggest that skin tissues of sheep and perhaps other animal species with superior traits are effectively preserved at cellular level at least for 56 h at normal refrigerating conditions, without need of complicated cryopreservatives/cryotanks that are usually not available at small farms.
41318700|Various growth factors have been implicated in the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation during tooth development. It has been unclear if insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) participate in the epithelium-mesenchyme interactions of tooth development. We previously produced threedimensional sandwich co-culture systems (SW) containing a collagen membrane that induce the differentiation of epithelial cells. In the present study, we used the SW system to analyze the expression of IGFs and IGFRs. We demonstrate that IGF2 expression in mesenchymal cells was increased by SW. IGF1R transduces a signal; however, IGF2R does not transduce a signal. Recombinant IGF2 induces IGF1R and IGF2R expression in epithelial cells. IGF1R expression is increased by SW; however, IGF2R expression did not increase by SW. Thus, IGF2 signaling works effectively in SW. These results suggest that IGF signaling acts through the collagen membrane on the interaction between the epithelium and mesenchyme. In SW, other cytokines may be suppressed to induce IGF2R induction. Our results suggest that IGF2 may play a role in tooth differentiation.
4295336| The enteric nervous system is a large and complex division of the peripheral nervous system. The glia associated with it share some characteristics with the olfactory-ensheathing glia, astrocytes and Schwann cells. To facilitate studies of rat enteric glia, we have developed a method for preparing them in large quantities with a high degree of homogeneity. The enteric glia were isolated from the small intestine of Wistar rats by enzymatic digestion with dispase. The cell isolate was added to a mitotically arrested layer of 3T3 cells. Subsequent separation of the enteric glia from the 3T3 cells was done enzymatic ally, with unavoidable loss of many enteric glia and potential contamination of enteric glia cultures with the 3T3 cells. Therefore, 3T3 cells were cultured in Nunc 0.2-m tissue culture inserts that could be readily removed from the wells when no longer needed. There was no loss of the enteric glia. The cultures consisted entirely of GFAP-labeled cells, presumptive enteric glia. This method permits the culturing of large numbers of highly purified enteric glia without the use of expensive growth factors and complement-mediated cytolysis. 
40663804|There are many reports of defined culture systems for the propagation of human embryonic stem cells in the absence of feeder cell support, but no previous study has undertaken a multi-laboratory comparison of these diverse methodologies. In this study, five separate laboratories, each with experience in human embryonic stem cell culture, used a panel of ten embryonic stem cell lines (including WA09 as an index cell line common to all laboratories) to assess eight cell culture methods, with propagation in the presence of Knockout Serum Replacer, FGF-2, and mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder cell layers serving as a positive control. The cultures were assessed for up to ten passages for attachment, death, and differentiated morphology by phase contrast microscopy, for growth by serial cell counts, and for maintenance of stem cell surface marker expression by flow cytometry. Of the eight culture systems, only the control and those based on two commercial media, mTeSRl and STEMPRO, supported maintenance of most cell lines for ten passages. Cultures grown in the remaining media failed before this point due to lack of attachment, cell death, or overt cell differentiation. Possible explanations for relative success of the commercial formulations in this study, and the lack of success with other formulations from academic groups compared to previously published results, include: the complex combination of growth factors present in the commercial preparations; improved development, manufacture, and quality control in the commercial products; differences in epigenetic adaptation to culture in vitro between different ES cell lines grown in different laboratories.
23481713|Endothelial cells have been implicated as key cells in promoting the pathogenesis and spread of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection. This study describes the isolation and culture of rat brain endothelial cells (RBEC) and further evaluates the infectious potential of a Malaysian rat CMV (RCMV ALL-03) in these cultured cells. Brain tissues were mechanically fragmented, exposed to enzymatic digestion, purified by gradient density centrifugation, and cultured in vitro. Morphological characteristics and expression of von Willebrand factor (factor VIII-related antigen) verified the cells were of endothelial origin. RBEC were found to be permissive to the virus by cytopathic effects with detectable plaques formed within 7 d of infection. This was confirmed by electron microscopy examination which proved the existence of the viral particles in the infected cells. The susceptibility of the virus to these target cells under the experimental conditions described in this report provides a platform for developing a cell-culture-based experimental model for studies of RCMV pathogenesis and allows stimulation of further studies on host cell responses imposed by congenital viral infections.
23279345|The cross talk between the corpus luteum (CL) and the early embryo, potentially relevant to pregnancy establishment, is difficult to evaluate in the in vivo bovine model. In vitro co-culture of bovine luteal cells and early embryos (days 28 post in vitro fertilization) may allow the deciphering of this poorly understood cross talk. However, early embryos and somatic cells require different in vitro culture conditions. The objective of this study was to develop a bovine luteal cell in vitro culture system suitable for co-culture with early embryos in order to evaluate their putative steroidogenic and prostanoid interactions. The corpora lutea of the different stages of the estrous cycle (early, mid, and late) were recovered postmortem and enriched luteal cell populations were obtained. In experiments 1 and 2, the effects of CL stage, culture medium (TCM, DMEM-F12, or SOF), serum concentration (5 or 10%), atmosphere oxygen tension (5 or 20%), and refreshment of the medium on the ability of luteal cells to produce progesterone (P 4 ) were evaluated. The production of P 4 was significantly increased in early CL cultures, and luteal cells adapted well to simple media (SOF), low serum concentrations (5%), and oxygen tensions (5%). In experiment 3, previous luteal cell cryo-preservation did not affect the production of P 4 , PGF 2 , and PGE 2 compared to fresh cell cultures. This enables the use of pools of frozenthawed cells to decrease the variation in cell function associated with primary cell cultures. In experiment 4, mineral oil overlaying culture wells resulted in a 50-fold decrease of the P 4 quantified in the medium, but had no effect on PGF 2 and PGE 2 quantification. In conclusion, a luteal cell in vitro culture system suitable for the 5-d-long co-culture with early embryos was developed.
4294820|A "sequential culture step" system was devised to study osteoclast differentiation from newborn porcine bone marrow cells. Nonadherent cells were collected from cultures of bone marrow cells, and subsequently precultured at a low cell density in low-serum medium supplemented with L929-conditioned medium (L9-CM) derived M-CSF/CSF-1. After 4 d, adherent cells mainly composed of M-CSF-dependent macrophage/osteoclast progenitors, but devoid of stromal-like cells, were further cultured in medium supplemented with L9-CM and CM derived from serum-free cultures of fetal rat calvarial bones. This phase was characterized by a rapid induction of mono- and multinucleated (pre)osteoclast-like cells, positive for cytochemical TRAP activity, but negative for nonspecific esterase (NSE) staining. The presence of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3
40205903|We evaluated the possibility of deriving primary cell cultures from tissue biopsies taken in field conditions from six threaten endemic Chilean species of free-ranging mammals. Biopsies were taken either by ear punching or darts fired to animals and hold in hypothermic conditions (4 C) in defined salt solution for time periods ranging from 0 to 7 d before biopsy samples reached the cell culture laboratory. Previously, holding times were evaluated in experimental cows in controlled conditions. Two enzymatic treatments, collagenase alone or collagenase followed by tripsin, were used to disaggregate tissues for cell culture. We found that ear notches and dart-derived biopsies can be storaged at 4 C for 1 wk and still yield primary cultures. For dart-derived biopsies, there was an invert correlation between length of cold storage and cellular viability in culture. Healthy fibroblast cell lines were obtained in 92% of the biopsies taken despite the origin (punch or biopsy). We are not aware of similar study for free-ranging animals, especially for the use of darting system to biopsy wild terrestrial mammals, we believe that our results could help for a more widespread implementation of these procedures in the practice of ex situ conservation
4294357|Gels of glyoxyl agarose (GA) are evaluated as a novel flexible substrate for cell culture with physical properties comparable to extracellular matrix (ECM) gels. We show here that cells adhere well to pure GA gels; in addition, specific interactions involving matrix receptors can be studied when individual matrix molecules are bound to the gel covalently. When cells are grown on such substrates, morphology is comparable to that observed on "natural" matrix gels (reconstituted gels of collagen type I or of Matrigel): rather than being flattened as in monolayer cultures on tissue culture plastic the cells assume a rounded morphology and tend to form tissue-like aggregates. The effects of the artificial matrix gels are discussed in the context of previous publications on cell interactions with the extracellular matrix, suggesting that in addition to specific recognition of matrix molecules the physical properties of ECM by themselves can be decisive for cell differentiation. We conclude that gels of glyoxyl agarose a) provide a useful model to mimic the physical properties of matrix gels without the presence of specific adhesion factors; b) may be useful as a general, non-specific ECM allowing cells to be cultured in vitro under conditions favorable for differentiation; and c) allow to design a variety of "synthetic" ECM models composed of a chemically defined gel matrix, which can be supplemented with covalently bound molecules to be recognized by cell surface receptors.
4295424|Recently, a sweet taste receptor family, the T1R family, that recognizes some carbohydrates including sucrose was identified. Although the T1R3 molecule is known to participate in heterodimers that are used as sweet- and umami-tasting receptors, there is no evidence that T1R3 alone recognizes similar ligands. We demonstrate for the first time that the candidate sweet taste receptor T1R3 is essential for the recognition and response to the disaccharide trehalose. Our system is a valuable tool not only for understanding the relationship between sweeteners and their receptors but also for exploring the diversities of their receptors, resulting in the design of new high-potency sweeteners.
4294119|This paper describes use of a novel substituted melanin which is useful in detection of differentiating leukemia cells and their membranes. Comparisons of luminol-(5-amino-2,3-dihydro-l,4-phthalazinedione) and diazoluminomelanin (DALM)-mediated chemiluminescence (CL) were made with various types of differentiated and undifferentiated HL-60 whole cells, cell lysates, and membrane fractions. Luminol had a greater CL response than DALM with HL-60 promyelocytic stem cells and differentiated macrophage-like or neutrophil-like whole cell and cell lysate preparations. However, DALM showed markedly greater CL than luminol for membrane fractions derived from each cell type. The greatest luminol-dependent CL was observed for cell types high in myeloperoxidase (MPO). The greatest DALM-mediated CL was seen with cell types that are high in MPO or strong producers of Superoxide (
24596442|In this report, a slow-growing subpopulation of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) was identified. These cells were around 5 m in diameter and their relative gravity was between 1.031 and 1.043 g/ml. In sharp contrast to the parent MSCs, they expressed highly CD271 and poorly the receptor for platelet-derived growth factor. Quantitative PCR with the identification of the products by DNA sequencing proved that these cells expressed Nanog at a higher level than cells from the other subpopulation (approximately 30-fold), which was further confirmed by western blotting. Furthermore, they did not grow at clonal density and depletion of these cells from the population had little effect on the colony formation of the parent MSCs. The results here indicate that a subpopulation of cells with special biological features exist in human cord MSCs in culture.
23481758|Transplantation of bone marrow (BM)-derived endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) has been reported to improve liver fibrosis, but there is no direct evidence for the mechanism of improvement. We investigated the mechanism in vitro by coculturing BM-derived EPCs with activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) to mimic the hepatic environment. EPCs and HSCs were cultured alone and indirectly cocultured at a 1:1 ratio in a Transwell system. The characteristics of HSCs and EPCs were examined at different time points. An invasion assay showed the time-dependent effect on degradation of the extacellular matrix (ECM) layer in EPCs cultured alone. Real-time PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis revealed that EPCs served as a source of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), and MMP-9 expression levels significantly increased during the 2 d of coculture. CFSE labeling showed that EPCs inhibited proliferation of HSCs. Annexin-V/PI staining, erminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase X-dUTP nick end labeling analysis, and (cleaved) caspase-3 activity revealed that EPCs promoted HSC apoptosis. However, the proliferation and apoptosis of EPCs were unaffected by cocultured HSCs. Coculturing increased the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, vascular endothelial growth factor, and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) in EPCs, promoted differentiation of EPCs, and reduced the expression of types I and III collagens and transforming growth factor beta 1. Knockdown of HGF expression attenuated EPC-induced activation of HSC apoptosis and profibrotic ability. These findings demonstrated that BM-derived EPCs could degrade ECM, promoting activated HSC apoptosis, suppressing proliferation and profibrotic ability of activated HSCs. HGF secretion by EPCs plays a key role in inducing activated HSC apoptosis and HSC profibrotic ability.
4294135|The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method was used to detect mycoplasma contamination in a panel of 42 continuous cell lines. According to the microbiological cultivation assay on agar, 29 cell lines were chronically infected and 13 cell lines were negative. Sets of outer and inner primers (nested double-step PCR) were applied which anneal to DNA sequences coding for conserved regions of the 16S rRNA. These oligonucleotides allow for the amplification of DNA regions found in at least 25 mycoplasma species (including the ones most commonly found in cell cultures), but do not cross-hybridize with DNA from eukaryotic cells. Mycoplasma-positive cell lines showed distinctive bands in ethidium bromide-stained gels, both after the first round of amplification as well as after the second PCR; all agar-negative cell lines were also unambiguously negative in the PCR assay. Thus, neither false-positive nor false-negative results occurred. Provided that the proper PCR working conditions are scrupulously observed, the PCR amplification has several outstanding advantages: high sensitivity, specificity, reliability, objectivity, speed, and simplicity.
20616556|Results of recent investigations have demonstrated the plasticity of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) can differentiate into neural lineages. In this study, we explored the experimental condition of differentiation into neuron-like cells or rhodopsin (RHOS)-positive cells induced by epidermal growth factor (EGF) and taurine in vitro and to investigate their biological characteristics. MSC were obtained from umbilical cord blood (UCB) of term deliveries. Cultured cells were treated with Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium/F12 (pH 7.0-7.2) supplemented with 30 ng/ml EGF. After the third cell passage, the cells were trysinized and analyzed with a flow cytometer using the following monocloned antibodies: CD90, CD29, CD34, CD44, and CD45. Taking another MSC of the third passage, its basal medium was replaced with alpha minimum essential medium supplemented with taurine (50 mol/L). Cells were cultured for an additional 8-10 d, fixed, and then immunocytochemically analyzed. Primary antibodies included the following: neuron-specific enolase (NSE), RHOS, and nestin. In our study, we isolated a cell population derived from UCB, which possesses morphological characteristics similar to those of MSC isolated from bone marrow. In the cytometric analysis, MSC did not present labeling for the hematopoietic line (CD34 and CD45) and were positive for CD29, CD44, and CD90. After induction by taurine, 80.516.2% of the cell population expressed NSE, 36.89.6% expressed RHOS, and 29.69.3% expressed Nestin, while only 7.93.5% expressed NSE in the control group. This study demonstrates that partial MSC induced by taurine and EGF can differentiate into neuron-like cells or RHOS-positive cells in vitro, which may provide a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of some forms of retinal degeneration.
20616601|Prior chemical and physical analysis of lunar soil suggests a composition of dust particles that may contribute to the development of acute and chronic respiratory disorders. In this study, fine AlO (0.7 m) and fine SiO (mean 1.6 m) were used to assess the cellular uptake and cellular toxicity of lunar dust particle analogs. Respiratory cells, murine alveolar macrophages (RAW 264.7) and human type II epithelial (A549), were cultured as the in vitro model system. The phagocytic activity of both cell types using ultrafine (0.1 m) and fine (0.5 m) fluorescent polystyrene beads was determined. Following a 6-h exposure, RAW 264.7 cells had extended pseudopods with beads localized in the cytoplasmic region of cells. After 24 h, the macrophage cells were rounded and clumped and lacked pseudopods, which suggest impairment of phagocytosis. A549 cells did not contain beads, and after 24 h, the majority of the beads appeared to primarily coat the surface of the cells. Next, we investigated the cellular response to fine SiO and AlO (up to 5 mg/ml). RAW 264.7 cells exposed to 1.0 mg/ml of fine SiO for 6 h demonstrated pseudopods, cellular damage, apoptosis, and necrosis. A549 cells showed slight toxicity when exposed to fine SiO for the same time and dose. A549 cells had particles clustered on the surface of the cells. Only a higher dose (5.0 mg/ml) of fine SiO resulted in a significant cytotoxicity to A549 cells. Most importantly, both cell types showed minimal cytotoxicity following exposure to fine AlO. Overall, this study suggests differential cellular toxicity associated with exposure to fine mineral dust particles.
4294394| Four mouse B16 melanoma subclones representing distinct stages in the benign-to-malignant progression of that tumor (G3.15, G3.5, G3.12, and G3.26), and three phenotype conversion variants with enhanced malignancy (G3.15*, G3.5*, and G3.12*), were comparatively examined for exogenous mitogen and growth factor requirements and for responsiveness to exogenous and endogenous growth modulators in monolayer culture. Growth behavior in serum-free medium with or without mitogen or growth factor supplements, and in supplemented quiescent serum-containing medium, confirmed previous indications that the G3.5 and G3.15* phenotypes were identical, as were the G3.26 and G3.12* phenotypes. However, G3.12 differed from the closest conversion equivalent, G3.5*, and probably represents an aberrant phenotype within this sequence. There was a direct relationship between degree of malignancy (G3.15  G3.5  G3.5*  G3.26), growth capacity in serum-free medium, and responsiveness to transferrin. Only G3.5*, G3.26, and G3.12* cells were growth-autonomous in serum-free medium and also highly responsive to mitogens. The polypeptide growth factors epidermal growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor-, and insulinlike growth factor-1 and -2 were generally stimulatory in quiescent medium, but the degree of growth promotion was unrelated to malignancy level. Transforming growth factor-1 was inhibitory to the more benign populations (G3.15, G3.5, and G3.15*) but stimulated proliferation of other cells. All populations produced autocrine fibronectin, and G3.12, G3.5*, G3.26, and G3.12* cells also produced autocrine transferrin. Only G3.12 cells failed to utilize both of those factors. Reversible mitogen-stimulated G3.12 cell growth was accompanied by partial and reversible responsiveness to both autocrine transferrin and fibronectin, whereas permanent stimulation by both factors characterized all growth-autonomous populations. 
4295416|The electrophysiological and ion-transporting properties of cultured gill epithelia from freshwater (FW) rainbow trout were examined in the presence of dilute cell culture media as an environmental or physiological simulant. Gill epithelia were cultured on cell culture inserts under symmetrical conditions (L15 apical-L15 basolateral) for 6-7 d. The following experiments were then conducted. (1) To mimic a gradual lowering of environmental salinity, apical L15 medium was progressively diluted with FW (first to 2/3 L15 for 8 h and then to 1/3 L15 for 6 h) before the introduction of apical FW (FW apical-L15 basolateral, analogous to a fish in a natural FW environment). Dilute apical media had no significant effect on the electrophysiological properties of preparations compared with symmetrical culture conditions, and no evidence for active Na
40981265|The majority of cell culture studies have assessed the effect of hormones on cancer cell growth using media supplemented with charcoal-treated fetal bovine serum (CTS). We aimed to determine whether using a system more reflective of the human condition by changing the charcoaltreated serum to an untreated pooled human serum (PHS) resulted in the same hormone responses in breast and prostate cell lines. MCF-7 breast cancer, MCF-10A non-transformed breast, and LNCaP prostate cancer cell lines supplemented with PHS were treated with high and low physiological concentrations of six hormones (17-estradiol, dehydroepiandosterone (DHEA), dihydrotestosterone (DHT), testosterone, insulin, and glucagon). Cell growth was measured after 72 h of incubation. All hormones stimulated growth of MCF-7 cells (p<0.05). MCF-10A cell growth was inhibited by DHEA, DHT, and testosterone (p<0.05), unaffected by 17-estradiol and glucagon, and stimulated by insulin (p<0.05). LNCaP cell growth was stimulated by the highest concentration of DHEA and DHT (p<0.05) and inhibited by the highest concentration of 17-estradiol (p<0.05), while insulin and testosterone, had no effect. Overall, PHS lowered the magnitude of the effect of hormones on cell growth in comparison to CTS. Due to the presence of all serum constituents, our model represents a more appropriate physiological environment for determining the effect of hormones on cancer cell growth. Further studies are required to determine the mechanisms by which added hormones interact with the constituents of untreated human serum.
4295299|The disaccharide trehalose has been shown to inhibit both bone loss in ovariectomized mice and excessive osteoclastogenesis in lipopolysaccharide-injected mice. However, the mechanism of osteoclastogenesis inhibition by oral administration of trehalose is still unclear. We report here for the first time that a human intestinal epithelial cell line, FHs74Int, also produces osteoprotegerin (OPG) and that trehalose augments OPG production by this cell line. Thus, these results suggest that trehalose promotes the production of OPG by intestinal epithelial cells, which then acts on bone marrow cells, resulting in the suppression of osteoclastogenesis.
40663812|Derivation of human embryonic stem cell lines has been a remarkable scientific achievement during the last decade. Human embryonic stem cells are regarded as an unlimited cell source for replacement therapy in regenerative medicine. Clearly, the scientific community requires proper derivation, characterization, and registration with the purpose of making them available for research and future medical applications worldwide. In this paper, we report our derivation work as the Valencian Node of the Spanish Stem Cell Bank in the generation, characterization, and registration of VAL-3, -4, -5, -6M, -7, -8, and 9 (www. isciii/htdocs/terapia/terapiabancocelular. jsp). The derivation process was performed on microbiologically tested and irradiated human foreskin fibroblasts and designed to minimize contact with xeno-components in knockout Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with knockout serum replacement and basic fibroblast growth factor. Fingerprinting of the cell lines was performed to allow their identification and traceability. All lines were expressed at the mRNA and specific protein markers for undifferentiation and were found to be negative for classical differentiation markers such as neurofilament heavy chain (ectoderm), renin (mesoderm), and amylase (endoderm). All lines displayed high levels of telomerase activity and were shown to successfully overcome cryopreservation and thawing. Finally, we demonstrated the potential to differentiate in vitro (embryoid body formation) and in vivo (teratoma formation) into cell types from all three germ layers. Teratoma derived from all human embryonic stem cell lines present similar morphological features except VAL-8 that display more aggressive tumor behavior with a larger proportion of solid tissues, as opposed to cyst formation in the other cell lines.
4295593|Biosafety requirements increasingly restrict the cultivation of mammalian cells producing therapeutic glycoproteins to conditions that are devoid of any compound of animal origin. On cultivation in serum-free media, the proteases inhibitors, usually found in serum, cannot protect secreted recombinant proteins against unwanted endogenous proteolysis. Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, secreting recombinant human interferon-7 (CHO-320 cell line) and cultivated in suspension in an original protein-free medium, expressed at least two members of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMP), either at the cell surface (proMMP-14 and MMP-14) or secreted (proMMP-9). In addition, tissue- and urinary-type plasminogen activators were also secreted in such culture conditions. At the cell surface, dipeptidyl peptidase IV and tripeptidyl peptidase II (TPPII) activities were also detected, and their activities decreased during time course of batch cultures. The proteolytic activities of these proteins were counterbalanced by (1) their expression as zymogens (proMMP-9, proMMP-14), (2) the expression of their natural inhibitors, tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases-1 and -2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), or (3) the addition of plant protein hydrolysates to the culture medium, acting as a nonspecific source of TPPII inhibitors. This study points out that, even in protein-free media, recombinant proteins secreted by CHO cells are actively protected against physiological and unwanted extracellular proteolysis either by endogenous or by exogenous inhibitors.
4295657|The pleiotropic drug resistance 5 gene (pdr5) encodes a multidrug membrane transporter and plays a very important role in the efflux of a broad range of chemicals in yeast cells. To study the possible function of pdr5 in insect cells, two stably pdr5-transformed lepidopteran insect cell lines, Sf21 and CF-203, were developed. Transcripts of pdr5 were detected in these two lines using Northern blotting and RT-PCR analysis. When cells were treated with the protein synthesis inhibitor diacetoxyscirpenol, the transformed Sf21 and CF-203 cell lines showed increased tolerance to this chemical. However, unlike in yeast cells, ecdysone agonist RH5992 could not be excluded by PDR5, probably because of low expression levels or imperfect incorporation of the recombinant protein in these transformed cell lines.
20616540|Primary hepatocytes lose their differentiated functions rapidly when in culture. Our aim was to maintain the differentiated status of hepatocytes in vitro by means of vital hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), their soluble and particulate factors and lipid extracts. Hepatocytes were placed into collagen-coated culture dishes in the presence of HSCs at different ages of pre-culture, with or without direct cell to cell contacts, at different cell ratios and in monoculture with cellular HSC components in place of vital cells. Changes in morphology and enhancement of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK) activity by glucagon were used to determine the differentiated status of hepatocytes in 2d-short-term culture. HSCs proved able to maintain the differentiated function of hepatocytes in co-culture either by direct cell contacts or via factors derived from HSC-conditioned medium. In comparison, however, without cellular contact to hepatocytes five to ten times as many HSCs were necessary to increase the PCK activity to the same degree as in the presence of intercellular contacts. Whereas stimulation in the presence of HSC/hepatocyte contacts was independent of HSC culture age only quiescent, resting HSCs (precultured for 1-2 d) were able to stimulate hepatocytes significantly via soluble factors. Culturing of hepatocytes with a lipid extract or a particulate fraction from HSCs clearly displayed a very strong beneficial effect on enzyme activity and morphology. HSCs maintain hepatocyte function and structure through preferentially cell-bound signalling and transfer of lipids.
4294622|The purpose of this study is to understand the multicellular interaction between tumor epithelial (TEC) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). The development of in vitro systems in which to coculture these cells as multicellular aggregates is very critical. Cell lines were established from cervical tumor cells (n = 6) and two from HUVEC (n = 2) and they were cultured as three-dimensional (3-D) multicellular-cultures using Cytodex-3 microcarrier beads in the rotating wall vessel (RWV). After a 240-h incubation, TEC and HUVEC proliferated exponentially to
4295296|Three-dimensional cell cultures (spheroids) of biopsies of human duodenum were used to develop a new noninvasive method for studying intercellular and intracellular mechanisms. Through examinations of intracellular pH regulation, high functional similarity to native tissue could be shown, as already evidenced morphologically. A special microperfusion chamber was developed to fix individual spheroids physically to a nylon net, via laminar perfusion flow through the chamber. A significant improvement over current fixation methods was shown by the increase of cell viability almost up to 100%. Viability of the spheroids was confirmed by trypan blue exclusion, by a LIVE/DEAD viability/cytotoxicity kit, and by BCECF distribution. Intracellular pH was measured by use of the pH-sensitive fluorescence dye BCECF. To investigate the intracellular pH regulation, spheroid-like vesicles were acidified by NH
4295707|Classically, most cell culture experiments have been performed under adherent 2D conditions. Cells in the human body grow within an organized 3D matrix, surrounded by other cells. The behavior of individual cells is controlled through their interactions with their immediate neighbors and the extracellular matrix. The complex summation of these multiple signals determines whether a given cell undergoes differentiation, apoptosis, proliferation, or invasion. In 2D culture many of these complex interactions are lost. As a result, there are a growing number of studies which report differences in phenotype, cellular signaling, cell migration, and drug responses when the same cells are grown under 2D or 3D culture conditions. One potential application of these techniques is to anticancer drug discovery, which has long been hampered by the lack of good preclinical models. Compounds with good antitumor activity in 2D cell culture models often fail to translate into the clinic. Here we suggest that the response of cancer cells to drugs is determined in part by the 3D tumor microenvironment and discuss models to re-create the 3D tumor microenvironment in vitro. It is likely that the adoption of these and other 3D models will allow us to more closely re-create the behavior of the tumor in vivo which may lead to identifying better anticancer drug candidates at an earlier stage of development.
4295488| Conjugated linoleic acids (CLAs) reduce fat deposition in several mammalian species. Among the proposed mechanisms for this effect are reduced preadipocyte proliferation and differentiation. We measured proliferation and differentiation of cultured human preadipocytes treated with CLAs. Preadipocytes were differentiated with insulin, hydrocortisone, transferrin, and 10% fetal bovine serum, with isobutyl-methylxanthine included for the first 2 d. The differentiation medium contained 200 M oleic acid (C18:l), 50 M cis-9,trans-11-CLA (9,11-CLA), or 50 M trans-10,cis-12-CLA (10,12-CLA); the negative control medium contained no added fatty acid, and the cells did not differentiate. Cell number increased three to four times during the 17 d of differentiation, but was 30-35% lower in the CLA-treated cells than in the negative control cells. Compared with the negative control cells, differentiation was increased in the cells treated with C18:l (increased Oil Red O-stained material [OROSM], triacylglycerol, glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity [GPDH], peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- [PPAR] messenger ribonucleic acid [mRNA], and lipoprotein lipase [LPL] mRNA). In effect, the C18:1-treated cells act as a positive control to demonstrate the differentiation capacity of each cell lot. Both 9,11-CLA- and 10,12-CLA-treated cells had increased differentiation (increased OROSM, triacylglycerol, GPDH, PPAR7, and LPL) compared with the negative control cells. The data suggest that early in differentiation when de novo fatty acid (FA) synthesis is limited and competition for FAs by membrane and triacylglycerol synthetic pathways is great, human preadipocytes do not differentiate unless a PPAR ligand is added. Either CLA isomer or C18:l can provide such a ligand. 
4295198|Generation of an effective immune response requires that antigens be processed and presented to T lymphocytes by antigen-presenting cells, the most efficient of which are dendritic cells (DC). Because of their influence on both the innate and the acquired arms of immunity, a defect in DC would be expected to result in a broad impairment of immune function, not unlike that observed in astronauts during or after space flight. In the study reported here, we investigated whether DC generation and function are altered in a culture environment that models microgravity, i.e., the rotary-cell culture system (RCCS). We observed that RCCS supported the generation of DC identified by morphology, phenotype (
4295686|In recent years, a great variety of different matrix systems for the cultivation of chondrocytes have been developed. Although some of these scaffolds show promising experimental results in vitro, the potential clinical value remains unclear. In this comparative study, we propagated human articular chondrocytes precultivated in monolayer culture on six different scaffolds (collagen gels, membranes and sponges) under standardized in vitro conditions. Mechanical properties of the matrix systems were not improved significantly by cultivation of human chondrocytes under the given in vitro conditions. The gel systems (CaReS, Ars Artho, Germany and Atelocollagen, Koken, Japan) showed a homogeneous cell distribution; chondrocytes propagated on Chondro-Gide (Geistlich Biomaterials, Switzerland) and Integra membranes (Integra, USA) were building multilayers. Only few cells penetrated the two Atelocollagen honeycomb sponges (Koken, Japan). During cultivation, chondrocytes propagated on all systems showed a partial morphological redifferentiation, which was best with regard to the gel systems. In general, only small amounts of collagen type-II protein could be detected in the pericellular region and chondrocytes failed to build a territorial matrix. During the first two weeks of cultivation, the two gel systems showed a significantly higher collagen type-II gene expression and a lower collagen type-I gene expression than the other investigated matrix systems. Although collagen gels seem to be superior when dealing with deep cartilage defects, membrane systems might rather be useful in improving conventional autologous chondrocyte transplantation or in combination with gel systems.
40205789|Mycoplasma contamination affects many different aspects of cell culturing, resulting in unreliable experimental results and potentially harmful biological products. Therefore, the specificity, sensitivity, and reliability of detecting mycoplasma contamination are important aspects of quality control in biotechnological products. In this study, Mycoplasma hyorhinis was adopted as a model strain to evaluate the effects of storage on the viability of Mycoplasma species in cell culture samples. Medium X was compared with conventional media 243 and 988 for the ability to detect M. hyorhinis. The 10 CFU/ml of M hyorhinis was inoculated into medium X prepared using the same lots of components and preserved for 7 d, 1 mo, and 2 mo. M. hyorhinis grew readily and typically on agar plates prepared within 1 mo. The viable mycoplasmas in samples containing different initial titers (10 and 10 CFU/ml) after storage at 4 C and -30 C were analyzed. During storage, viable organisms were found with little or no reduction in titers after storage for 8 wk at -30 C under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. A reduction in titers of 3 log 10 occurred after 4 wk storage for high-dose cultures (10 CFU/ ml) at 4 C. The titers of viable organisms were diminished over 8 wk at 4 C under aerobic and anaerobic conditions.
40802392|In this report, we demonstrate a method for the isolation of pure homogeneous endothelial cell population from goat's eye without using multi-step procedure and sophisticated instrument facilities. Microvascular endothelial cell from goat's retina were isolated using enzymatic method and cultured in Iscove's Modified Dulbecco's Medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Five to 7 d after plating, a monolayer of endothelial cells was formed. These cells were identified as endothelial cells by morphology and confirmed by positive immunocytochemistry for vWF, CD31, VE-cadherin, CD 146, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1, a specific marker for endothelial cells. We have compared both the mechanical and non-mechanical enzymatic methods in isolating pure endothelial cells. Cells plated on 4% gelatin-coated dishes resulted in tubular morphology, a characteristic of endothelial cells. This method is simpler and cost-effective when compared with other previously reported methods. These endothelial cells will be more helpful to identify the role of various factors in angiogenic-related disease such as diabetic retinopathy.
40802402|Lack of tissue-specific differentiated functions of cells in tissue culture, once thought to be due to "dedifferentiation", was shown to be due to selective overgrowth of fibroblasts by a series of simple experiments that challenged the prevailing dogma. Following this insight, enrichment culture techniques (alternate animal and culture passage) were designed to give functionally differentiated tumor cells selective advantage over the fibroblasts. These experiments resulted in the derivation of a large number of functionally differentiated clonal strains of a range of cell types, providing the final point of destruction of the dogma of "dedifferentiation." Instead, the hypothesis was proposed that cells in culture accurately represent cells in vivo, but without the complex in vivo environment. With the development of hormonally defined media and its combination with functionally differentiated clonal cell lines, this concept has been strengthened and the potential of tissue culture studies has been greatly augmented. Hormonally defined media allow the culture of cell types that cannot be grown in conventional, serumsupplemented media. These approaches demonstrate that hormonal responses and dependencies can be discovered in culture. Following this thinking and the discovery of hormonal dependencies of cancer cells has led to a new rationale for therapy. Tissue culture and cell technology continue to play an important role in solving human health problems.
4294991| Both smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells play an important role in vascular wound healing. To elucidate the role of fructose-1, 6-diphosphate, cell proliferation and cell migration studies were performed with human endothelial cells and rat smooth muscle cells. To mimic blood vessels, endothelial and smooth muscle cells were used in 1:10, 1:5, and 1:1 concentrations, respectively, mimicking large-, mid-, and capillary-sized blood vessels. Cell migration was studied with fetal bovine serum-starved cells. For cell proliferation assay, cells were plated at 30-50% confluency and then starved. The cells were incubated for 48 h with fructose-1, 6-diphosphate at (per ml) 10 mg, 1 mg, 500 g, 250 g, 100 g, and 10 g, pulsed with tritiated-thymidine and incubated with 1 N NaOH for 30 min at room temperature, harvested, and counted. For migration assay, confluent cells were starved, wounded, and incubated for 24 h with same concentrations of fructose-1, 6-diphosphate as in proliferation assay. The cells were fixed and counted. Smooth muscle cell proliferation was inhibited by fructose-1, 6-diphosphate at 10 mg/ml. In the xenograft models of 1:10, 1:5, and 1:1 fructose-1, 6-diphosphate inhibited proliferation at 10 mg/ml. In migration studies 10 mg fructose-1, 6-diphosphate per ml was inhibitory to both cell types. In large-, mid-, and capillary-sized blood vessels, fructose-1, 6-diphosphate inhibited proliferation of both cell types at 10 mg/ml. At the individual cell level, fructose-1, 6-diphosphate is nonstimulatory to proliferation of endothelial cells while inhibiting migration, and it acts on smooth muscle cells by inhibiting both proliferation and migration. 
4294183|Mammary and adipose explants from eight mid-lactation Holstein cows were co-cultured for 24 h in the presence or absence of liver explants,
4295132|The growth, behavior, and contractile protein expression of rabbit aortic smooth muscle cells (SMC) grown on, between layers, or within a collagen gel was investigated by confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscopy and Western analysis. SMC grown on collagen gel behaved similarly to those on conventional culture dishes. However, when a second layer of collagen was overlaid, cells underwent an elongated quiescent phase before onset of proliferation and a more than threefold lower logarithmic growth rate was observed. These cells self-organized into a network with ring-like structures. With increasing culture time, some of the rings developed into funnel-like, incomplete or complete tubular structures. If a tubular template preexisted within the gel, the SMC established a cylinder-shaped tube with several circularly arranged muscular layers (similar to an artery wall). This behavior mimicked endothelial cells during angiogenesis in vitro. A similar phenomenon occurred in cultures in which SMC were randomly mixed in a collagen gel, but here their behavior and morphology varied with their position within the gel. Western blot analysis showed that the SMC differentiation marker, smooth muscle myosin heavy chain-2 (SM-2), rapidly decreased, disappearing by day 10 in SMC grown on collagen, but was still detectable until day 25 in cells cultured between or within the same gel. These findings indicate that like endothelial cells, vascular SMC can display blood vessel formation behavior in vitro when an appropriate three-dimensional matrix environment is provided to keep them in a relatively higher-differentiated and low-proliferative state.
4295522|Aquaporins (AQPs) are a recently discovered family of proteins that function as transmembrane water channels. These proteins regulate the delicate osmotic balance across the cell plasma membrane. Given that osmotic damage is the major contributing factor to cell death during freezing, we hypothesized that regulation of AQPs may have an unrealized role in protecting cells from osmotic damage during cryopreservation. Rat kidney inner medullar collecting duct (IMCD) cells were treated with arginine vasopressin (AVP) to increase the amount of
4295030|The small intestinal epithelium plays an important role in the mucosal host defense. Intestinal epithelial cells have been known to release substances that suppress lymphocyte proliferation, suggesting an immunoregulatory function. We investigated how intestinal epithelial cells affect lymphocyte proliferation. Serum-free medium that was conditioned by incubating epithelial cells, particularly crypt cells, of the rat small intestine affected proliferation of allogeneic spleen lymphocytes stimulated with concanavalin A, as assessed by measuring cellular [
4295097|This paper describes a new fully differentiated Type-II alveolar epithelial cell line designated T
4295366| The transcription factor, sterol regulatory binding protein 1c (also called adipocyte determination and differentiation-dependent factor 1), stimulates transcription of the messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) for lipid synthesis enzymes. Hepatic ADD1 transcripts are reduced by polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). The ADD1 transcripts are expressed to a considerable extent in porcine adipocytes. Consequently, it was of interest to examine the effects of several PUFAs on ADD1 in a tissue wherein several long-chain fatty acids (FAs) increase adipocyte differentiation. The effects of arachidonic acid (C20:4), docosahexaenoic acid (C22:6), and cis 9, trans 11-conjugated linoleic acid (9,11-CLA) on differentiating preadipocyte ADD1 mRNA and protein and on preadipocyte differentiation were determined. Porcine stromal-vascular cells were plated in serum-containing medium and differentiated in serum-free medium containing insulin, hydrocortisone, and transferrin  an individual FA. After 24-h differentiation  FA, plates were stained with Oil Red O as an indicator of differentiation or total RNA was extracted or a nuclear fraction was isolated for protein measurement. Addition of C20:4 or 9,11-CLA increased the number of Oil Red O-stained cells or the Oil Red O-stained material, whereas C22:6 did not. Addition of C20:4, C22:6, or 9,11-CLA decreased the concentration of the mRNA and protein for ADD1. Thus, although all three FAs decreased the ADD1 mRNA and protein concentrations, C20:4 and 9,11-CLA increased differentiation, measured by Oil Red O staining, whereas C22:6 did not. The data suggest that the regulation of differentiation and mRNAs by individual FAs may involve distinct mechanisms. 
4294221|From the central nervous system of Drosophila melanogaster 3rd instar larvae, eight continuous cell lines have been established (named ML-DmBG1 to 8). Using ML-DmBG2, single colony isolation was carried out and six colonial clones were obtained. All reacted to the antibody to horseradish peroxidase, which is a neuronal marker in insects. Acetylcholine, a known neurotransmitter in Drosophila, was detected in three of the colonial clones by high performance liquid chromatography. Therefore, it is concluded that the established colonial clones are neural cells originating in the larval central nervous system. Among them, some variation was observed with respect to morphology, acetylcholine content, and reactivity to anti-HRP. The variation may reflect the heterogeneity of cells composing the central nervous system.
20172156| Our previous studies have demonstrated that expression of growth-associated genes is regulated by the adhesive state of the cell. To understand the role of cell adhesion in regulating the switch from growth to differentiation, we are studying the differentiation of mouse myoblasts into multinucleated contractile myotubes. In this report, we describe a novel means of culturing CC myoblasts that permits an analysis of the role of cell adhesion in regulating the sequential induction of muscle-specific genes that control myogenesis. Suspension of an asynchronous, proliferating population of myoblasts in a viscous gel of methylcellulose dissolved in medium containing 20% serum induces growth arrest in G phase of the cell cycle without a concomitant induction of muscle-specific genes. Reattachment to a solid substratum in 20% serum, 0.5 nM bFGF, or 10 nM IGF-1 rapidly activates entry of the quiescent cells into G followed by a synchronous progression of the cell population through into S phase. bFGF or IGF-1 added separately facilitate only one passage through the cell cycle, whereas 20% serum or the two growth factors added together support multiple cell divisions. Adhesion of suspended cells in DMEM alone or with 3 nM IGF-1 induces myogenesis as evidenced by the synthesis of myogenin and myosin heavy chain (MHC) proteins followed by fusion into myotubes. bFGF completely inhibits this differentiation process even in the presence of myogenic doses of IGF-1. Addition of 3 nM IGF-1 to quiescent myoblasts maintained in suspension culture in serum-free conditions does not induce myogenin or MHC expression. Thus, adhesion is a requirement for the induction of muscle gene expression in mouse myoblasts. The development of a muscle cell culture environment in which proliferating myoblasts can be growth arrested in G without activating muscle-specific gene expression provides a means of analyzing the synchronous activation of either the myogenic or growth programs and how adhesion affects each process, respectively. 
4294546|A two-component tissue architecture assay system has been devised that tests the ability of human colon carcinoma cells to conform to the specific three-dimensional cell-cell and cell-substratum interactions characteristic of normal colonic tissues. Dissociated fetal rat colonic cells (FRCC) were allowed to reaggregate in suspension with or without the addition of different proportions (0.1%, 1%, and 10% of the total cells) of the human colon carcinoma cell lines, SW-1222 and LS-174T. Cellular aggregates obtained after 36 hours' incubation exhibited cell sorting by the formation of recognizable epithelial colonie crypt-like structures with glandular lumens in a mesenchyme-like background. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)-positive SW-1222 cells in 10% mixed aggregates were organized into numerous well-formed glandular structures with a polarized apical distribution of CEA. LS-174T cells, on the other hand, were self-sorted but structurally disorganized with a continuous cell surface CEA distribution. Pure FRCC and mixed aggregates were implanted under the kidney capsules of Swiss nu/nu (nude) or CD-I nu/nu mice and allowed to grow for a period of 7-10 days. Whereas the normal FRCC readily formed colonie tissue, the SW-1222 cells exhibited a capacity for differentiation into colonie crypts which became progressively less normal and more tumor-like as the proportion of carcinoma cells in the aggregates was increased. The LS-174T cells demonstrated poor differentiation at all concentrations. Cell surface levels of CEA and the CEA family member nonspecific crossreacting antigen (NCA), both overexpressed in colon cancer, were higher in LS-174T than in SW-1222 cells, whereas family member biliary glycoprotein (BGP), downregulated in colon carcinoma was higher in the SW-1222 cells. These results thus support the suggestion that deregulated expression of CEA family members can be involved in the ability of colonocytes to differentiate and conform to normal tissue architecture as assessed by the assay. The assay is therefore amenable to genetic analysis of normal and perturbed architectural phenotypes.
4294424| Cationic lipids are an effective means for transfecting nucleic acids into a variety of cell types. Very few of these lipids, however, have been reported to be effective with primary cells. We report on the efficacy of several commercially available cationic lipid reagents to transfect plasmid DNA into primary rat hepatocytes in culture. The reagents tested in this study include TransfectAce, LipofectAmine, Lipofectin, N-[l-(2,3-dioleyloxy)propyl]-n,n,n-trimethylammoniumchloride (DOTMA), (N-[l-(2,3-dioleoyloxy)propyl]-N,N,N-trimethyl-ammonium methylsulfate (DOTAP), and cetyltrimethyl-ammonium bromide/dioleoylphosphatidylethanol-amine (CTAB/DOPE). Electron micrographic (EM) studies indicate that similar size Lipofectin and DOTAP vesicles contain DNA-like material internally and that these vesicles attach to the cell membrane. DOTAP vesicles are multilamellar, appear as clusters, and have a high DNA-to-lipid ratio. Lipofectin vesicles appear to attach to the cell surface as individual vesicles. The EM observations are consistent with current theories on the mechanism of transfection by cationic lipids. While Lipofectin has proven to be effective in transfection studies of primary cells in culture, we have found DOTAP to be a viable alternative. DOTAP yields transfection rates in hepatocytes comparable to DOTMA and Lipofectin, however, at lower concentrations of reagent and at considerably less cost. Optimal conditions for transfecting 5 g of plasmid DNA with DOTAP were achieved by utilizing multilamellar (vortexed) vesicles at a concentration of 15 g DOTAP per 2 ml media in 60-mm plates for 2 h transfection time. In this study, DOTAP has proven to be economical, easy to prepare, and very effective in transfecting DNA into primary rat hepatocytes. 
4294345|An in vitro serum-free culture system provides an important approach to the understanding of local hormonal regulation of mammary epithelial and fibroblast cells, avoiding the complexity of the in vivo environment and the influence of undefined serum factors. The substratum conditions and medium components have been examined for the basal growth of epithelial cells, fibroblasts, and combined epithelial and fibroblast cells in monolayer cultures. Epithelial cells and mixed cells exhibit good attachment and maintenance on a collagen-coated surface in a minimal medium supplemented with fetuin and insulin. In contrast, fibroblast-enriched cultures require a plastic substratum and a medium supplemented with insulin, fetuin, and hydrocortisone. In mixed cell culture, fibroblasts are maintained well in the minimal media which supports the maintenance of epithelial cells. These results indicate that the presence of epithelial cells in mixed cell cultures can influence fibroblast function. The media developed in the present study can be used in future studies of fibroblast and epithelial cell interactions with regard to hormone and growth factor regulation of their growth and differentiation.
20869535|Anncaliia algerae is an aquatic microsporidium that most commonly infects mosquitoes but can be grown on the rabbit kidney cell line, RK-13. Spores were purified from RK-13 cultures and added to cell lines from warm water fish and from an insect. The cell lines were GFSK-S1 and GFB3C-W1 from goldfish skin and brain respectively, ZEB2J from zebrafish embryos, FHMT-W1 from fathead minnow testis, and Sf9 from ovaries of a fall armyworm moth. All cultures were maintained at 27C. Infection was judged to have taken place by the appearance of sporonts and/or spores in cells and occurred in all cell lines. Spores were also isolated from ZEB2J cultures and used to successfully infect new cultures of ZEB2J, RK-13 and Sf9. These results suggest that cells of a wide range of vertebrates support A. algerae growth in vitro and fish cells can produce spores infectious to cells of mammals, fish, and insects
4295013| The objective of this study was to establish a technique to isolate porcine mesothelial cells (PMCs) from omental tissue and to compare them to human mesothelial cells (HMCs). The PMCs were dispersed by collagenase digestion and isolated on a Ficoll layer. Their morphologic and ultrastructural features were assessed at confluence by light and electronic microscopy, and they were characterized by immunohistochemistry using specific HMC markers. PMC proliferation was studied in the presence of growth factors platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF) or transforming growth factors 1, 2, or 3 (TGF). Fibrinolytic PMC activity was detected by zymography for tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and by reverse zymography for plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). The recalcification time of cell lysates was used to define PMC procoagulant activity, and gelatinase zymography was used to detect metalloproteinase production. At confluence, PMCs formed typical cobblestone monolayers and exhibited structural features characteristic of HMCs. Weibel Palade bodies were never seen. Specific HMC markers (HBME1, ME1, WT1) cross-reacted with PMCs. As HMCs and PMCs coexpressed cytokeratin and vimentin, and also expressed vinculin and -actin. Addition of PDGF or EGF to the culture medium stimulated PMC proliferation. PMCs constitutively expressed fibrinolytic and procoagulant activity and secreted MMP9 and MMP2. The technique described in this study allows isolation of mesothelial cells from porcine omental tissue. These porcine cells exhibit a mesothelial phenotype and functional properties similar to those of HMCs. Our data warrant an evaluation of mesothelial cells as targets in several therapeutic strategies with porcine models. 
4295628|Ergovaline's role in the direct causation of fescue toxicosis first requires establishment of its dietary absorption. Therefore, ergovaline movement across human intestinal cells was assessed using Caco-2 cells derived from human colon carcinoma. A pre-equilibrated mixture of ergovaline/ergovalinine (60:40 ratio of isomers) was added to the apical compartment, and isomer movements were assessed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) of extracted media (initial pre-isomerized ergovaline concentrations of 6 and
24596445|Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), formed mainly by the enzyme cystathionine -lyase (CSE) in macrophages, is emerging as a novel regulator in inflammation. Although elevated production of H2S has been shown in inflammatory processes, the underlying molecular mechanism remains to be further elucidated. In this study, we compared parallel TLR4 knockout (TLR4-/-) mice with their wild-type counterparts following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment. It showed that LPS increased the expressions of CSE and biosynthesis of H2S in C57BL/6 mice both in vivo and in vitro. However, the effects of LPS were not present in TLR4-/- mice, indicating the crucial role of TLR4 in LPSinduced expression of CSE and biosynthesis of H2S. We subsequently used JNK inhibitor, P38 inhibitor, and ERK inhibitor to block the downstream MAPK pathways of TLR4 in macrophages, and found that LPS-induced CSE expression and H2S synthesizing activity were inhibited by pretreatment with the p38 inhibitor. Similarly, the NF-B inhibitor (BAY 11-7082) reversed the effects of LPS. These results suggest that LPS increases the biosynthesis of CSE and H2S in macrophages mainly in a TLR4-p38-dependent and TLR-4-NF-B-dependent manner. These findings expand our knowledge of H2S biosynthesis during inflammation and provide a foundation for the development of novel H2S-based therapies.
40205856|Identification of cellular and morphological changes in myoblasts during three-dimensional (3D) culture may provide novel insight into skeletal muscle morphogenesis. One particular morphological change that occurs during the transition from monolayer culture to the 3D environment is the appearance of cytoplasmic projections (podia). The purpose of these studies was to determine if: (1) 3D culture increased podia formation in single cells, and (2) podia were F-actin dependent. C2C12 cells were grown in 3D conditions using a rotary cell culture system (RCCS) for 3, 6, and 9 h, fixed, and stained. Analysis of confocal images revealed that podia were significantly more numerous on RCCS cultured cells than those on suspension controls. Further, the podia of RCCS cultured cells decreased in number and increased in length during the time intervals examined. RCCS cultured cells showed no significant changes in viability, Annexin V staining, and activated Caspase 3 expression over time. In contrast, significant decreases in viability of suspension controls occurred. The application of 2 M Latrunculin A (Lat A), an actin depolymerizing agent, significantly reduced the number of cells with podia. The number of cells with podia recovered with Lat A removal. Changes in viability and apoptosis markers were not significant during Lat A application or washout experiments. These observations reveal that: (1) culture conditions in the RCCS increase the quantity of podia formation; (2) these podia increase in length with time; and (3) F-actin plays a role in podia formation.
4294044|In the present study we describe the establishment of serial cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells derived from biopsies obtained by fiberoptic bronchoscopy. The cell cultures were initiated from small amounts of material (2 mm forceps biopsies) using either explants or epithelial cell suspensions in combination with a feeder-layer technique. The rate of cell proliferation and the number of passages (up to 8 passages) achieved were similar, irrespective of whether the explants or dissociated cells were used. To modulate the extent of differentiation, the bronchial epithelial cells were cultured either under submerged, low calcium (0.06 mM) (proliferating), normal calcium (1.6 mM) (differentiation enhancing) conditions, or at the air-liquid interface. Characterization of the bronchial epithelial cell cultures was assessed on the basis of cell morphology, cytokeratin expression, and ciliary activity. The cells cultured under submerged conditions formed a multilayer consisting of maximally three layers of polygonal-shaped, small cuboidal cells, an appearance resembling the basal cells in vivo. In the air-exposed cultures, the formed multilayer consisted of three to six layers exhibiting squamous metaplasia. The cytokeratin profile in cultured bronchial epithelial cells was similar in submerged and air-exposed cultures and comparable with the profile found in vivo. In addition to cytokeratins, vimentin was co-expressed in a fraction of the subcultured cells. The ciliary activity was observed in primary culture, irrespective of whether the culture had been established from explants or from dissociated cells. This activity was lost upon subculturing and it was not regained by prolongation of the culture period. In contrast to submerged cultures and despite the squamous metaplasia appearance, the cells showed a reappearance of cilia when cultured at the air-liquid interface. Human bronchial epithelial cell cultures can be a representative model for controlling the mechanisms of regulation of bronchial epithelial cell function.
20869525|Previously, we clarified the surface antigen profiles of hepatic progenitor cells (HPCs) in fetal liver tissue as the CD49fCD45Thy1 cell fraction. However, these cells were a heterogeneous cell population containing various stages of differentiation. This study aimed to detect more immature HPCs, using a novel surface antigen, gp38. After the collagenase digestion of fetal livers harvested from E13.5 to E18.5 fetal mice, HPCs were obtained and divided into two subpopulations using flow cytometry: gp38-positive HPCs, and gp38-negative HPCs. Both types of HPCs were characterized by immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR. The proliferative activity was compared by BrdU incorporation and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTS) assay. Furthermore, the comprehensive gene expression was investigated by DNA microarray. Both types of HPCs expressed alpha-fetoprotein. However, the gp38-positive HPCs derived from E13.5 fetal livers did not express albumin or cytokeratin 19, while the gp38-negative HPCs did. DNA microarray revealed that some genes related to the Wnt signal pathway were up-regulated in the gp38-positive HPCs. Furthermore, Wnt3a had a proliferative effect on the gp38-positive HPCs. In conclusion, the gp38-positive HPCs derived from fetal liver tissue until E13.5 could therefore be candidates for hepatic stem cells in the fetal liver.
4295389|A better understanding of the molecular effects of epidermal growth factor (EGF) on target cell can help to reveal important aspects of cellular proliferation, transformation, and apoptosis, as well as embryonic and fetal development. In this study, we examined the differences in gene expression of cultured fibroblasts with EGF stimulation for 48 h by using high-density complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) arrays. We found that EGF could cause widespread alteration in gene expression. Eight hundred and fifty-five genes, more than 20% of those assayed, showed changed expression, which are involved in various cellular processes, such as energetic metabolism, biosynthesis, the progress of cell cycle, and the signaling pathways of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTKs) and G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). The most striking finding is that long-term EGF treatment on cultured fibroblasts resulted in down-regulation of the genes encoding membrane receptors and ion channels and desensitized RTKs and GPCRs to their physiological and nonphysiological stimuli, which seems to be a slow-acting, but permanent, effect of EGF on RTK and GPCR signaling pathways and to play important roles in embryonic and fetal development.
23279457|The red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum, is a model organism for agricultural and medical research and its complete genome is sequenced. We established a continuously replicating T. castaneum cell line to complement existing physiological, genetic, and genomic research tools. We set up trial cell cultures from egg, pupa, and adult stages as tissue sources and incubated them in six separate cell culture media to determine the optimal combination of tissue source and medium for cell replication. Our most promising culture was generated by co-culturing adult (~75 %) and pupal tissues in EX-CELL 420 medium containing 9 % FBS. Our new cell culture is designated BCIRL-TcA-CLG1 (TcA) and it has been subcultured more than 90 times. Amplification of genomic DNA with species-specific primers yielded DNA fragments of the expected sizes and with sequences identical to those from the published Tribolium genome. Additionally, we characterized this line using DNA fingerprinting (DAF-PCR) and compared it with three other coleopteran cell lines and its conspecific pupae to confirm identity. Its doubling time is 155.2 hr. Early passages consisted of attached cells and vesicles in suspension, whereas later passages consisted primarily of attached, spherical cells. Similar to other established cell lines, the ploidy of TcA cells was variable, ranging from 20 chromosomes/cell (diploid) to above 30 chromosomes/cell. TcA cells withstood incubation at 40C for 1 h with no decrease in viability. We recorded increased levels of one heat shock protein (43 kDa) and of the hsp68a transcript following exposure to 40C. Taken together, this represents the first report of a continuously replicating T. castaneum cell line. We expect the BCIRL-TcA-CLG1 line will become a useful tool in Tribolium research.
4295696|A mutant strain of drosophila (D. subobscura) has two types of mitochondrial genomes: a small population (20%) identical to that of the wild strain (15.9 kb) and a predominant population (80%) which has undergone a 5-kb deletion affecting more than 30% of the coding zone. Two cell lines were established from homogenates of embryos from mutant and wild strains. The activities of the respiratory complexes measured in the different cell lines are much lower than in the flies, indicating a glycolytic metabolism. Various modifications of the medium composition did not change this metabolic pathway. The mutant cell line has two types of populations of mitochondrial genomes and the heteroplasmy is equivalent to that measured in the mutant strain. However, the biochemical characteristics differ from those observed in the flies (i.e., the decrease of complex I and III activities), and the various systems of compensation for the consequences of the deletion that are showed in the mutant strain are no longer observed. Furthermore, in contrast with observations made on mutant flies, the heteroplasmy appears unstable in the mutant cell lines: after 60 or so generations, it progressively decreases until it disappears completely. The limited importance of mitochondrial energy metabolism in cells may explain the low impact of the mutation on the established cell line, in contrast to what is seen in the mutant strain.
4295385|The pulmonary alveolar epithelium consists of alveolar type I (AT1) and alveolar type II (AT2) cells. Interactions between these two cell types are necessary for alveolar homeostasis and remodeling. These interactions have been difficult to study in vitro because current cell culture models of the alveolar epithelium do not provide a heterocellular population of AT1 and AT2 cells for an extended period of time in culture. In this study, a new method for obtaining heterocellular cultures of AT1- and AT2-like alveolar epithelial cells maintained for 7 d on a rat tail collagen-fibronectin matrix supplemented with laminin-5 is described. These cultures contain cells that appear by their morphology to be either AT1 cells (larger flattened cells without lamellar bodies) or AT2 cells (smaller cuboidal cells with lamellar bodies). AT1-like cells stain for the type I cell marker aquaporin-5, whereas AT2-like cells stain for the type II cell markers surfactant protein C or prosurfactant protein C. AT1/AT2 cell ratios, cell morphology, and cell phenotype-specific staining patterns seen in 7-d-old heterocellular cultures are similar to those seen in alveoli in situ. This culture system, in which a mixed population of phenotypically distinct alveolar epithelial cells are maintained, may facilitate in vitro studies that are more representative of AT1-AT2 cell interactions that occur in vivo.
23279347|This study aims to explore the effect of advanced glycosylation end products (AGEs) on proliferation of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in vitro and the underlying mechanism. Bone marrow cell proliferation was determined by WST-8 assay using Cell Counting Kit-8 under the intervention of AGEs. In addition, the content of maldondialdehyde (MDA) and the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) were also measured. The proliferation activity of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) was significantly inhibited when AGEs were added to culture medium, and this effect was dose-dependent and time-dependent. As the concentration of AGEsbovine serum albumin increased, the content of intracellular MDA was significantly increased, but the activity of SOD in cell homogenates was significantly suppressed, which also showed a dose-dependent manner. AGEs could significantly inhibit the proliferation of MSCs in vitro by improving the oxidative stress in MSCs and breaking the homeostasis of intracellular environment.
4295316|Inflammatory adherence to, and locomotion through the interstitium is an important component of the immune response. Conditions such as microgravity and modeled microgravity (MMG) severely inhibit lymphocyte locomotion in vitro through gelled type I collagen. We used the NASA rotating wall vessel bioreactor or slow-turning lateral vessel as a prototype for MMG in ground-based experiments. Previous experiments from our laboratory revealed that when lymphocytes (human peripheral blood mononuclear cells [PBMCs]) were first activated with phytohemaglutinin followed by exposure to MMG, locomotory capacity was not affected. In the present study, MMG inhibits lymphocyte locomotion in a manner similar to that observed in microgravity. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) treatment of PBMCs restored lost locomotory capacity by a maximum of 87%. Augmentation of cellular calcium flux with ionomycin had no restorative effect. Treatment of lymphocytes with mitomycin C prior to exposure to MMG, followed by PMA, restored locomotion to the same extent as when nonmitomycin C-treated lymphocytes were exposed to MMG (80-87%), suggesting that deoxyribonucleic acid replication is not essential for the restoration of locomotion. Thus, direct activation of protein kinase C (PKC) with PMA was effective in restoring locomotion in MMG comparable to the normal levels seen in 1g cultures. Therefore, in MMG, lymphocyte calcium signaling pathways were functional, with defects occurring at either the level of PKC or upstream of PKC.
4295107|The reported estrogenic action of phenol red and/or its lipophilic contaminants has led to the widespread use of indicator-free culture medium to conduct endocrine studies in vitro. Because we have recently developed methods to measure large-magnitude estrogen effects in the tissue culture medium containing phenol red, we concluded that the indicator issue required further evaluation. To do this, we selected nine estrogen receptor positive (
4294841| Objectives were to characterize developmental changes in response to heat shock in the preimplantation mouse embryo and to evaluate whether ability to synthesize glutathione is important for thermal resistance in mouse embryos. Heat shock (41 C for 1 or 2 h) was most effective at disrupting development to the blastocyst stage when applied to embryos at the 2-cell stage that were delayed in development. Effects of heat shock on ability of embryos to undergo hatching were similar for 2-cell, 4-cell, and morula stage embryos. The phenomenon of induced thermotolerance, for which exposure to a mild heat shock increases resistance to a more severe heat shock, depended upon stage of development and whether embryos developed in vitro or in vivo. In particular, induced thermotolerance was observed for morulae derived from development in vivo but not for 2-cell embryos or morulae that developed in culture. Administration of buthionine sulfoximine to inhibit glutathione synthesis did not increase thermal sensitivity of 2-cell embryos or morulae but did reduce subsequent development of 2-cell embryos at both 37 and 41 C. In summary, changes in the ability of 2-cell through morula stages to continue to develop following a single heat shock were generally minimal. However, 2-cell embryos delayed in development had reduced thermal resistance, and therefore, maternal heat stress may be more likely to cause mortality of embryos that are already compromised in development. There were also developmental changes in the capacity of embryos to undergo induced thermotolerance. Glutathione synthesis was important for development of embryos but inhibition of glutathione synthesis did not make embryos more susceptible to heat shock. 
4295056|A human skin equivalent was prepared by culturing human keratinocytes on the surface of nylon filtration meshes containing human skin fibroblasts and by growing the epidermal cells at the air-liquid interface. This human skin equivalent model was used to mimic the photoproduction of vitamin D
41512870|The aim of this study was to determine the effects of a low frequency electric field on the early embryonic development of frogs. The embryos of African clawed toads, Xenopus laevis, were exposed to a 20-A electric current during the cleavage stages. The developmental processes of embryos during and after electric field exposure were monitored for teratogenic effects. All the embryos continuously exposed to the electric field died without undergoing any developmental processes. However, when the embryos were exposed to the electric field for 20-min periods (four times/over 2 d), the embryos developed into both normal tadpoles (70 %) and malformed tadpoles with light edema, reduced pigmentation, or axial anomalies, such as crooked tails. After exposure, the control embryos were at development stage 35.5 (2 d 2 h), while the normal embryos of the assay group were at developmental stage 41(3 d 4 h). There was a 1 d 2 h difference between the two developmental stages, revealing the importance of that time period for embryogenesis. In conclusion, the effects of electric current on Xenopus embryos are dependent on the initial developmental stage and the duration of exposure.
4295681|Low oxygen tension (hypoxia) has been implicated in proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) of the lung. Tissue hypoxia also occurs in the obstructed bladder. The extracellular-regulated kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2) pathway is induced in many cell types during hypoxia. We examined whether hypoxia (
4295361|Hyperosmotic pressure increased specific antibody productivity (
4294695|A previous finding that insulin cells do not survive or differentiate in explants of embryonic avian pancreas cultured in collagen gel with a serum-containing medium has provided a model system for identification of conditions favorable for development of these cells. To this end, we here modify the substrate and the medium. The epithelial component of dorsal pancreatic buds of 5-d chick embryos was cultured for 7 d on Matrigel in serum-containing and in serum-free medium, the latter incorporating insulin, transferrin, and selenium. Endocrine cell types were distinguished by immunocytochemistry; insulin cell counts were expressed as a proportion of insulin plus glucagon cells. With serum-containing medium, Matrigel stimulated a significant increase in this proportion as compared with collagen gel-3.1% as against 0.2%; the serum-free medium further increased this proportion to 17.3%. Raising the level of essential amino acids approximately fivefold increased the latter figure somewhat (to 18.9%), but it was more than doubled (to 37.4%) by raising the glucose concentration from 10 mM to 20 mM. Raising the levels of amino acids and glucose simultaneously yielded a lesser increase (to 31.8%). Some cultures grown in collagen gel and serum-containing medium for 7 d were transferred to Matrigel and serum-free medium for a further 7 d. Insulin cell development recovered, indicating that progenitor cells had survived and were stimulated to develop by the improved conditions. This study indicates that components of the biomatrix and the medium (in particular, a raised glucose concentration) are important for the survival and differentiation of embryonic insulin cells.
4294429|Constitutive production of extracellular matrix with attachment and growth-promoting effects by an ovarian cancer cell line (UW0V2 (Pf)) growing in entirely protein-free conditions is described. This extracellular matrix has an ordered fibrillar, network structure consisting mainly of type IV collagen and laminin, as well as containing hyaluronan, glycoproteins, and proteoglycans. Type IV collagen appears to provide mainly structural support while other matrix components are responsible for the attachment and growth-promoting effects. This culture system provides an ideal model for studying the effects of extracellular matrix on cell attachment and growth. This system is also important in studying the concept of autonomous growth because the production of extracellular matrix by these cells appears to be growth regulatory even in an entirely protein-free culture system.
40663797|We had earlier reported the derivation and characterization of two new sibling human embryonic stem cell lines BJNheml9 and BJNhem20, from discarded grade III embryos of Indian origin. We report here the characteristics of the two sibling cell lines after long-term continuous culture for over 2 yr during which they have been passaged over 200 times. We show that both cell lines adapt well to culture on various mouse and human feeders as well as in feeder-free conditions. The cells show normal diploid karyotype and continue to express all pluripotency markers. Both cell lines differentiate to derivatives of all three germ layers in vitro. However as reported earlier, BJNheml9 is unable to generate teratomas in nude or SCID mice or differentiate to beating cardiomyocytes when tested over several passages during long-term stable culture. On the other hand, the cardiac differentiation capacity of BJNhem20 is greatly increased, and it can generate beating cardiomyocytes that proliferate when isolated and cultured further. In conclusion, the two cell lines have maintained a stable phenotype for over 2 yr and are indeed immortal. Their derivation from grade III embryos does not seem to have any adverse effect on their long-term phenotype. The cells can be obtained for research purposes from the UK Stem Cell Bank and from the authors.
40602789|We describe a method for creating differentiated equine bronchial epithelial cell cultures that can be used for in vitro studies including airway disease mechanisms and pathogen-host interactions. Our method is based on the culturing of human tracheobronchial epithelial cells at an air-liquid interface (ALI) in specific serum-free, hormonesupplemented medium. Bronchial epithelial cells are isolated and grown on T-Clear insert membranes. Within 2 to 3 wk, cells differentiate into ciliated and mucus producing cells as demonstrated by confocal and electron microscopy. Furthermore, the demonstration of the two major gelforming mucin species, Muc5ac and Muc5b, in our bronchial epithelial cell culture system validates this method for studies of respiratory tract disease of the horse.
40205857|Numerous previous studies demonstrated that gene expression was influenced by histone modifications. However, little information is available about the relation of histone methylation with embryonic gene expression. Here, we examine the significance of histone H3 dimethyl-lysine 4 (H3K4me2) during mouse zygotic genome activation (ZGA) by inhibiting demethylation with the specific histone H3 lysine 4 demethylase inhibitor bisguanidine lc (lc). A lc treatment of one-cell embryos did not significantly affect the level of eIF-4C transcripts but did affect Oct4 levels by the two-cell stage. Furthermore, lc treatment significantly inhibited cleavage of the embryos to the four-cell stage (from 82.7% to 18.2%), and the inhibitory effect was identified to be irreversible. These results suggest that histone methylation may be closely correlated with the formation of a transcriptionally repressive state during ZGA and that the repressive state actually dictates the appropriate pattern of gene expression required for further development.
40981261|Poekilocerus pictus is a painted grasshopper, which feeds on Calotropis sp. containing the cardiac glycosides. A new cell line BPH22 is developed from midgut of P. pictus to study its unique physiology and biochemistry. Initially, the Graces insect medium is used with 10% (v/v) fetal bovine serum. After four passages, the serum quantity was reduced up to 0%. The lag phase in growth curve was 5 d and log phase is up to 10-11 d. The addition of Calotropis extract in Graces medium enhanced the growth of cells. The Calotropis extract with Graces medium altered the morphology of cells of BPH22. The amplification and sequencing of 16S rRNA gene confirmed the origin and purity of the BPH22.
4294533|Proton Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (
4294060|We describe a fast and reproducible method that can be used as a final step in obtaining pure populations of liver endothelial cells. This method employs endothelial cell specific lectin covalently bound to magnetic polystyrene beads (Dynabeads). Evonymus europaeus agglutinin (EEA)-coated Dynabeads were used to purify monkey liver endothelium from Percoll gradient separated nonparenchymal cells. EEA-coated beads were also successfully used to purify monkey aortic endothelial cells. The endothelial cells grew to confluence as a cobblestonelike monolayer, expressed Factor VIII related antigen, and incorporated acetylated-low density lipoprotein. The magnetic beads seemed not to modify the normal properties of the isolated endothelium, thus facilitating their use in experimental studies. This immunomagnetic separation technique may be applicable for purification of endothelial cells from a wide variety of tissue sources.
20869578|Odontogenesis is extensively studied in animal models but less understood in human. In early amelogenesis, amelogenin constitutes 90% of enamel organic matrix, which is degraded by enamelysin and replaced by hydroxyapatite crystals. Here, amelogenin and enamelysin distribution changes during amelogenesis were shown by co-localization experiments by confocal microscopy. Early bell stage showed more amelogenin labeling than enamelysin, as free immune-reactive granular patches towards basal membrane between ameloblast and odontoblast. Increased amelogenin expression and secretion towards extracellular matrix formation region was found. Enamelysin distribution was perinuclear in early bell stage. During late bell stage, a decreasing amelogenin labeling in contrast with enamelysin increasing along the cells was found, suggesting specific temporal amelogenin degradation. Enamelysin was located initially around nuclei and later was found in all the ameloblast and stellate reticulum cytoplasm. Amelogenin was observed inside ameloblast, stellate reticulum, and intermediate stratum cells in the enamel as well as in the newly formed dentin extracellular matrix. In contrast, in dentin more amelogenin than enamelysin was found located close to the periphery.
4294692|Effects of endothelin (ET) family peptides and their derivatives on cellular contraction and calcium-ion level were examined by using cultured human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSM). Contraction of cultured human VSM, isolated from human fetal aortic segments, was induced within 1 min after the treatment with ET-1 (100 nM) as seen in the changes of cytosolic calcium-ion localization. In parallel with the cell contraction, cytosolic calcium-ion level in the human VSM increased very rapidly and then dropped with some oscillation as determined by Anchorage Cell Analyzing System. It was noted that transient calcium-ion mobilization rather than sustained calcium-ion influx was significant in the contraction of cultured human VSM. Vasoactive intestinal contractor (VIC), three amino acids different from ET-1, had less activity in increase of intracellular calcium-ion level and in percent of response cells than ET-1, ET-2, and VIC-S4L6 (one amino acid different from ET-1). EC
4294530|Normal growth of the fetal lung is dependent on fetal breathing movements. We have previously reported that an intermittent strain, which simulates normal fetal breathing movements, stimulates DNA synthesis and cell division of mixed fetal rat lung cells maintained in organotypic culture. To examine which cell type is responding to mechanical strain and to investigate whether the effects of strain on cell proliferation and mechanotransduction are affected by tissue architecture, we isolated fetal lung cells and subjected them to intermittent strain either as two-dimensional monolayer cultures or as three-dimensional organotypic cultures. Strain enhanced DNA synthesis of mixed cells, epithelial cells, and fibroblasts when cultured in a three-dimensional configuration. In contrast, no stimulatory effect on cell proliferation was observed when cells were strained as monolayer cultures. Intracellular signals, induced by strain, and cell morphology also varied depending on the culture conditions. These results suggest that mechanical strain stimulates the proliferation of both epithelial cells and fibroblasts and that the response of fetal lung cells to mechanical strain in vitro depends on cellular architecture.
4294624|Currently, short-term culture of insect corpora allata is most often performed in TC199. We now show that L-15B, a medium widely used in arthropod tissue culture, is superior to TC199 for both short- and long-term culture of cockroach corpora allata. In 3-h and 48-h incubations, juvenile hormone biosynthesis by corpora allata from Diploptera punctata was significantly higher in L-15B than in TC199. In addition, in both media, corpora allata activity was significantly improved by flotation of glands at the medium surface. Characteristics of L-15B responsible for its superiority were examined by comparison of gland activities in several TC199 formulations that had been modified in different ways to be more similar to L-15B. Adjusting the osmotic pressure of TC199 (288 mOsm/l) to near that of L-15B (362 mOsm/l) and D. punctata hemolymph (360 mOsm/l) significantly improved gland activity during the second 12 h of a 36-h incubation. Increasing the concentrations of amino acids, sugars, and organic acids in TC199 to the same levels as in L-15B significantly improved gland activity during both the second and third 12-h intervals of a 36-h incubation. These results suggest that L-15B is superior to TC199 because L-15B is isoosmotic with D. punctata hemolymph and because L-15B, like cockroach hemolymph, contains a high level of organic constituents. It is therefore more appropriate to use L-15B than TC199 for short-term in vitro assays of juvenile hormone biosynthesis and for extended corpora allata culture.
4294978|Past studies using micropatterned substrates coated with adhesive islands of extracellular matrix revealed that capillary endothelial cells can be geometrically switched between growth and apoptosis. Endothelial cells cultured on single islands larger than
24712901|Calpains are a family of Ca2+-dependent intracellular cysteine proteases, including the ubiquitously expressed -calpain (CANP1) and m-calpain (CANP2). The CANP1 has been found to play a central role in postmortem proteolysis and meat tenderization. However, the physiological roles of CANP1 in cattle skeletal satellite cells remain unclear. In this study, three small interference RNA sequences (siRNAs) targeting CANP1 gene were designed and ligated into pSilencer plasmid vector to construct shRNA expression constructs. Suppression of CANP1 in satellite cells was evaluated using these shRNA expressing constructs. Our results revealed that all three siRNAs could downregulate the expression of CANP1. Suppression of CANP1 significantly reduced cell viability in cell proliferation when compared with control cells. We found a crosstalk between CANP1 and caspase systems, particularly suppression of CANP1 resulted in an increase in the expressions of apoptotic caspases such as caspase-3, caspase-6, caspase-7, caspase-8, and caspase-9, as well as heat-shock protein (HSP) systems. Additionally, suppression of CANP1 led to the upregulation of other apoptosis and DNA damage-regulating genes whilst at the same time downregulating proliferation, migration, and differentiation-regulating genes. The results of our findings report for the first time that suppression of CANP1 resulted in the activation of caspase and HSP systems which might in turn regulate apoptosis through the caspase-dependent cell death pathway. This clearly demonstrates the key roles of CANP1 in regulation of cell proliferation and survival.
20616604|Proepicardial cells (PE) contribute to embryonic coronary vessel and epicardial development. Cells from the PE region can differentiate into coronary vascular smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts in vitro, but the endothelial specification capability of these cells is controversial. We sought to examine the effects of endothelial cell growth media on gene expression and the morphogenic properties of proepicardial cells in three-dimensional (3D) matrices. A primary culture of avian PE cells was subjected to molecular characterization with selected endothelial specific markers. Morphogenic properties of PE cells were assessed by in vitro assays of coronary vasculogenesis and invasion, which utilized highly defined, serum free, three-dimensional matrix conditions. PE cells maintained mixed cell population properties in the culture based on morphogenic features, immunohistochemistry, and the gene expression data. When suspended in a 3D vasculogenesis in vitro assay, PE cells formed intracellular vacuoles and assembled into multicellular tubes. Further, ultrastructural analysis revealed the presence of pinocytic vacuoles, intercellular junctions, and endothelial specific Weibel Palade bodies. In the invasion assay, PE cells spontaneously invaded control matrices. This invasion was markedly enhanced by lysophosphatidic acid (949.6 vs. 285.654.9, p<0.05) and was completely blocked with synthetic broad-spectrum metalloproteinase inhibitor GM6001. Isolated PE cells grown in endothelial cell media represent mixed-cell population, characterized by both smooth muscle and endothelial gene expression. When placed in 3D in vitro assays, PE cells manifest morphogenic properties, including multicellular tube assembly and invasion.
4295543|We have previously isolated mouse embryonic cell lines with endothelial potential using a simple empirical approach. In an attempt to isolate similar cell lines from adult mouse bone marrow (BM), BM cells were cultured on mitotically inactive mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) feeder cells. Several cell lines with putative endothelial potential were generated. They expressed endothelial-specific genes and formed vascular-like structures when plated on matrigel. When transplanted into appropriate mouse models, they incorporated into the endothelium of the vasculature. Similar cell lines were also obtained using human or porcine BM. None of these lines induced tumor formation when transplanted into immunodeficient Rag1 -/- mice. However, all the lines were aneuploid with genetic markers from BM samples and the MEF feeder, suggesting that they resulted from a non-species-specific fusion of a BM cell and mitotically inactive MEF. Together, these lines demonstrated for the first time that BM cells can also undergo fusion with commonly used mitotically inactive feeder cells. Although these fusion cell lines were culture artifacts, their derivation would be useful in understanding fusion of BM cells with other cell types, and their endothelial potential will also be useful in characterizing endothelial differentiation.
4294699|Epstein-Barr-virus-associated posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease ranges from transient lymphadenitis to aggressive lymphoma. This study characterizes an in vitro model to study the pathogenesis of this disease with a cell culture system. Five B-cell lines derived from posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease tissue were characterized with regard to immunophenotype, karyotype, molecular genetics, cytokine production, and growth regulation. All cell lines expressed CD19, CD21, CD22, CD43, and CD77, but not CD10 antigens. Immunoglobulin light chain restriction was seen in four of five cell lines, and cytogenetic abnormalities were demonstrable in three of the five. Cells proliferating in culture contained multiple Epstein-Barr virus episomes and showed lytic viral replication. All cell lines produced tumor necrosis
4294062|Adhesive interactions of trophoblast cells with the endometrium are essential for embryo implantation in the uterus. Choriocarcinoma cells, the malignant counterpart of trophoblast, show pronounced invasiveness and are of interest for model studies. We describe here an in vitro model system for the study of adhesion of human JAR choriocarcinoma multicellular spheroids to different human endometrial epithelial cell lines (RL95-2, HEC-1A, KLE, AN3-CA) grown as monolayers. Cell characterization showed JAR spheroids to secrete the placental hormones human chorionic gonadotropin and progesterone into the culture medium; distinct patterns of keratin, vimentin, and uvomorulin expression were seen in the endometrial cell lines. Spheroid attachment to endometrial monolayers was quantified using a centrifugal force-based adhesion assay, and morphology was examined by light and electron microscopy. Results showed the JAR spheroids to attach to three of the endometrial monolayers (RL95-2, HEC-1A, KLE) progressively over a 24-h period (by which time >80% of the spheroids attached). Significant differences in spheroid attachment were most pronounced at 5 h (RL95-2 > HEC-1A > KLE and poly-D-lysine control, i.e. 90:45:17:17% attached). JAR spheroids did not attach to the endometrial cell line AN3-CA. Morphology revealed choriocarcinoma cells to begin to intrude between the uterine RL95-2 epithelial cells at 5 h. At 24 h, this intrusive type of penetration continued to be seen only with the RL95-2 monolayer. The assay system thus identifies differences in attachment properties between choriocarcinoma cells and various endometrial cell lines and forms the basis for further studies on the molecular interactions involved.
40802408|The current study was undertaken with the goal being isolation, cultivation, and characterization of ovine mesenchymal stem cells (oMSC). Furthermore, the objective was to determine whether biological active polycaprolactone-co-lactide (trade name PCL) scaffolds support the growth and differentiation of oMSC in vitro. The oMSC were isolated from the iliac crest of six merino sheep. Three factors were used to demonstrate the MSC properties of the isolated cells in detail. (1) Their ability to proliferate in culture with a spindle-shaped morphology, (2) presence of specific surface marker proteins, and (3) their capacity to differentiate into the three classical mesenchymal pathways, osteoblastic, adipogenic, and chondrogenic lineages. Furthermore, embroidered PCL scaffolds were coated with collagen I (coll I) and chondroitin sulfate (CS). The porous structure of the scaffolds and the coating with coll I/CS allowed the oMSC to adhere, proliferate, and to migrate into the scaffolds. The coll I/CS coating on the PCL scaffolds induced osteogenic differentiation of hMSC, without differentiation supplements, indicating that the scaffold also has an osteoinductive character. In conclusion, the isolated cells from the ovine bone marrow have similar morphologic, immunophenotypic, and functional characteristics as their human counterparts. These cells were also found to differentiate into multiple mesenchymal cell types. This study demonstrates that embroidered PCL scaffolds can act as a temporary matrix for cell migration, proliferation, and differentiation of oMSC. The data presented will provide a reliable model system to assess the translation of MSC-based therapy into a variety of valuable ovine experimental models under autologous settings.
4294306|During studies comparing
4294740|Three sources of fetal bovine serum (FBS) were fractionated by ammonium sulfate precipitation and by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), transferred to Immobilon-P membranes, immunoblotted with a panel of transcription factor antibodies, and detected by enhanced chemiluminescence. Nine transcription factors were detected-ATF-2, SRE-ZBP, GATA-2, TFIID, Ets-1/Ets-2, E2F-1, Oct-2, p53, and AP-2; four transcription factors were not detected-Myo D, CREB, Sp2, and Wilms' tumor. The results indicated the presence of varying amounts of several transcription factors in three commercial sources and may represent heretofore unrecognized factors influencing cell culture.
40205821|Exposure of fibroblasts to high glucose levels promotes a fibrotic response characterized by increased expression of extracellular matrix components including interstitial collagens. Little is known about the effects of glucose levels on other aspects of fibroblast function. Fibroblasts in the myocardium are surrounded by an extensive extracellular matrix composed predominantly of type I collagen. Interactions between fibroblasts and the myocardial extracellular matrix are thought to affect heart function by altering ventricular diastolic properties. The purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of elevated glucose levels on the interactions between heart fibroblasts and the collagenous extracellular matrix. Studies were performed to determine the effects of relative glucose levels on the ability of fibroblasts to migrate on and contract a three-dimensional collagenous substratum. These experiments illustrated that exposure of cardiac fibroblasts to high glucose levels (25 mM) resulted in decreased migratory activity of fibroblasts on a collagen matrix and decreased fibroblast proliferation. In addition, high glucose stimulated collagen and collagen-binding integrin expression and contraction of three-dimensional collagen gels by cardiac fibroblasts. These studies illustrate that altered glucose levels induce important changes in the interactions of cardiac fibroblasts with the collagenous extracellular matrix.
4294698|The behavior of vascular endothelial cells (EC) is an important factor in the processes involved in angiogenesis, but the regulatory mechanisms of angiogenesis, especially underlying the tubulogenesis by EC are not yet clear. Although a number of in vitro experimental models of tubulogenesis have been developed by use of cultured EC, most of those models are too complex to be easily handled and further, the culture media are usually supplemented with serum, creating problems in interpretation of experimental results. To generate a simple in vitro angiogenesis study model under serum-free culture conditions, we adapted a murine microvascular endothelial cell line, F-2, to a chemically defined medium, Cos Medium 001, and successfully established a subline of F-2, designated F-2C, which revealed a unique growth pattern. In Cos Medium 001, F-2C proliferates in a cobblestone pattern at an early growth stage, but, at a late growth stage, spontaneously differentiates to form three-dimensional honeycomblike tubular structures without the supplementation of any specific factors. The cell aggregation activity of F-2C in the presence of Ca
41512869|Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) have been implicated in the control of proliferation, tissue formation, and differentiation. BMPs regulate the biology of stem and progenitor cells and can promote cellular differentiation, depending on the cell type and context. Although the BMP pathway is known to be involved in early embryonic development of the mammary gland via mesenchymal cells, its role in later epithelial cellular differentiation has not been examined. The majority of the mammary gland development occurs post-natal, and its final functional differentiation is characterized by the emergence of alveolar cells that produce milk proteins. Here, we tested the hypothesis that bone morphogenetic protein receptor 1A (BMPR1A) function was required for mammary epithelial cell differentiation. We found that the BMPR1A-SMAD1/5/8 pathway was predominantly active in undifferentiated mammary epithelial cells, compared with differentiated cells. Reduction of BMPR1A mRNA and protein, using short hairpin RNA, resulted in a reduction of SMAD1/5/8 phosphorylation in undifferentiated cells, indicating an impact on this pathway. When the expression of the BMPR1A gene knocked down in undifferentiated cells, this also prevented beta-casein production during differentiation of the mammary epithelial cells by lactogenic hormone stimulation. Addition of Noggin, a BMP antagonist, also prevented beta-casein expression. Together, this demonstrated that BMP-BMPR1 A-SMAD1/5/8 signal transduction is required for beta-casein production, a marker of alveolar cell differentiation. This evidence functionally identifies BMPR1A as a potential new regulator of mammary epithelial alveolar cell differentiation.
4295199|Rotating-wall vessels (RWVs) allow for the cultivation of cells in simulated microgravity. Previously, we showed that the cultivation of lymphoblastoid cells in simulated microgravity results in the suppression of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation. To determine if the suppression generated by simulated microgravity could be reversed by changing to static culture conditions, cells were cultured in an RWV for 5 d, and then switched to static conditions. Following the switch to static conditions, viral reactivation remained suppressed (significantly lower) relative to static control cultures over a 4-d period. Additionally, experiments were conducted to determine if chemical treatment could induce viral reactivation in cells from simulated-microgravity cultures. Cells were cultured in static flask cultures and in simulated microgravity in RWVs for 4-7 d. The cells were then transferred to
4294295|For the first time we report on the growth, culture, and matrix production characteristics of a cell type isolated from the lamina propria of the urinary bladder wall. A fibroblastlike cell was identified as distinct from bladder detrusor smooth muscle cells and urothelium based on morphology, growth characteristics, and immunohistochemical staining. Characterization of extracellular matrix synthesis by this cell type using
4294627|We have investigated single and combined effects of calciotropic hormones and growth factors on the regulation of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and calcium metabolism in an optimized serum-free bone organ culture system of embryonic chick tibiae. Parathyroid hormone PTH(1-34) alone mobilized calcium from bone tissue time- and dose-dependently and inhibited ALP activity. Both the bisphosphonate (BM 21.0955) and to a lesser extent salmon calcitonin alone slightly increased calcium uptake and inhibited the stimulation of bone resorption by PTH(l-34). 1,
4295050| Identification of clones in primary tumors responsible for proliferation, invasion, and metastasis was carried out. Four different aneuploid established cell lines derived from a ductal infiltrating mammary rat tumor induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene were studied for proliferative and growth features in vitro and for tumorigenic and metastatic potential in vivo in nude mice. Clones, named RM1, RM2, RM3, and RM4, were characterized by different proliferative activity. Clone RM1 showed the highest proliferative activity by both tritiated thymidine incorporation and S-phase flow cytometry, followed by clone RM4. Conversely, clones RM2 and RM3 showed a lower proliferation rate. Growth-promoting activity, tested on 3T3 Swiss cells, was high in all clones, although RM1 showed significantly lower growth factors-releasing activity. Nude mice tumorigenesis demonstrated a strong tumor induction of line RM1 (100% of the mice after 47  7 d) and a slightly lower tumor induction of line RM4 (70% of the mice after 69  9 d). Line RM3 showed tumor induction in 40% of the mice after 186  16 d. Lines RM2 showed no tumor induction. Metastasis occurred in mice treated with line RM1 only. Therefore, tumorigenesis and metastasis correlate with proliferation but not with the release of growth factors. In conclusion, flow cytometry monitoring of clones from heterogeneous primary tumors proved to be a suitable model for the study of in vivo malignancy and in vitro proliferation. 
4295163|Various parameters of immune suppression are observed in lymphocytes from astronauts during and after a space flight. It is difficult to ascribe this suppression to microgravity effects on immune cells in crew specimens, due to the complex physiological response to space flight and the resultant effect on in vitro immune performance. Use of isolated immune cells in true and modeled microgravity in immune performance tests, suggests a direct effect of microgravity on in vitro cellular function. Specifically, polyclonal activation of T-cells is severely suppressed in true and modeled microgravity. These recent findings suggest a potential suppression of oligoclonal antigen-specific lymphocyte activation in microgravity. We utilized rotating wall vessel (RWV) bioreactors as an analog of microgravity for cell cultures to analyze three models of antigen-specific activation. A mixed-lymphocyte reaction, as a model for a primary immune response, a tetanus toxoid response and a Borrelia burgdorferi response, as models of a secondary immune response, were all suppressed in the RWV bioreactor. Our findings confirm that the suppression of activation observed with polyclonal models also encompasses oligoclonal antigen-specific activation.
4294979|Deletions are widely distributed over the genome in the most frequently occurring human cancers and are the most abundant genetic lesion found there. Deletions are highly correlated with the slow growth phenotype of mutated animal and human cells and result in chromosomal transposition when the retained ends are joined. Transpositions are only a minor source of mutation in rapidly multiplying bacteria but are a major cause of mutations in stationary bacteria. The NIH 3T3 line of mouse cells undergoes neoplastic transformation during prolonged incubation in a stationary state and expresses the slow growth phenotype on serial subculture at low density, suggesting a relation between transformation and chromosomal deletions. To further explore the relation between neoplastic transformation and the slow growth phenotype as a surrogate for deletions, two sublines of the NIH 3T3 cells with differing competence for transformation were serially subcultured in the stationary state at confluence and tested at each subculture for transformation and growth rate. Cell death in a fraction of the population and a heritable slowdown in proliferation of most of the survivors became increasingly pronounced with successive rounds of confluence. The reduction in growth rate was not proportional to the degree of transformation of the cultures, but all of the transformed cultures were slow growers at low density. All of the discrete colonies from cloning transformed cultures developed at a lower initial rate than control colonies under optimal conditions for growth, but they continued to grow at later stages, forming multilayered colonies under conditions that inhibited the further growth of the control colonies. The results suggest that prolonged incubation of NIH 3T3 cells in the stationary state results in growth-impairing deletions over a wide range of sites in the genome, but more restricted subsets of such lesions are responsible for neoplastic transformation. These findings provide dynamic, functional support in culture for the histopathological evidence that the quiescent state of cells associated with atrophy and fibrosis plays a significant role in the origin of some cancers in experimental animals and human beings.
4294447| The effect of fibrin on angiogenesis in vitro was investigated using an experimental model of tube formation by bovine capillary endothelial cells (BCEs) in type I collagen gel. One milligram per milliliter of fibrin added into type I collagen gel significantly increased the length of the tubular structures formed by BCEs in the gel by about 180% compared with type I collagen only. The facilitating effect of fibrin on tube formation by BCEs was inhibited by either anti-basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) IgG (25 g/ml) or anti-urokinase type plasminogen activator (uPA) IgG (10 g/ml) added to the gel and culture medium, but not by anti-tissue type plasminogen activator (10 g/ml) or non-immune IgG. The Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) containing peptides (100 g/ml) added to the culture medium also suppressed tube formation by BCEs in fibrin-containing type I collagen gel, but not in type I collagen gel. These results suggest that the increased release of bFGF and uPA by BCEs therefore plays a role in the angiogenic effect of fibrin in vitro, and the angiogenic effect of fibrin is mediated by the RGD sequence in fibrin, probably via the function of integrin receptor of the BCEs. 
20869570|The first continuous cell line from the embryo of Gampsocleis gratiosa (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae), designated as RIRI-GG1, was established. This cell line was serially subcultured in modified Grace medium. The cells were grown adherent to a culture flask and had spindle-like and polygonal shapes. The chromosome number ranged from 26 to 79 at the 50th passage, and 68% of cells had a diploid chromosome number. The growth rate was determined at the 53rd passage, and the population doubling time was calculated to be 122.1 h. The rDNA internal transcribed spacer and the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene sequence analysis indicated that the RIRI-GG1 cell line was derived from G. gratiosa. This cell line had no apparent susceptibility to Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus and Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus.
4294354| This report describes the development and characterization of an epithelial cell line (BPH-1) from human prostate tissue obtained by transurethral resection. Primary epithelial cell cultures were immortalized with SV40 large T antigen. One of the isolated clones was designated BPH-1. These cells have a cobblestone appearance in monolayer culture and are non-tumorigenic in nude mice following subcutaneous injection or subrenal capsule grafting. They express the SV40 large T antigen and exhibit increased levels of p53, as determined by immunocytochemistry. Cytogenetic analysis by G-banding demonstrated an aneuploid karyotype with a modal chromosome number of 76 (range 71 to 79, n = 28) and 6 to 8 marker chromosomes. Some structurally rearranged chromosomes were observed, but the Y chromosome was normal. The expressed cytokeratin profile was consistent with a prostatic luminal epithelial cell. This profile was the same as that of primary prostatic epithelial cultures from which the BPH-1 cells were derived. In serum-free culture in plastic dishes epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth factor (TGF)-, fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 1 (aFGF), and FGF 7 (KGF) induced increased proliferation in these cells whereas FGF 2 (bFGF), TGF-1, and TGF-2 inhibited proliferative activity. Testosterone had no direct effect on the proliferative rate of BPH-1 cells. 5-Reductase, 3-hydroxy-steroid oxidoreductase, and 17-hydroxy-steroid oxidoreductase activities were detected in BPH-1 cells. Expression of androgen receptors and the secretory markers, prostate specific antigen and prostatic acid phosphatase, were not detectable by immunocytochemistry, biochemical assay, or RT-PCR analysis. 
4295542| Chondrocytes comprise less than 10% of cartilage tissue but are responsible for sensing and responding to mechanical stimuli imposed on the joint. However, the effect of mechanical signals at the cellular level is not yet fully defined. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that mechanical stimulation in the form of cyclic strain modulates proliferative capacity and integrin expression of chondrocytes from osteoarthritic knee joints. Chondrocytes isolated from articular cartilage during total knee arthroplasty were propagated on flexible silicone membranes. The cells were subjected to cyclic strain for 24 h using a computer-controlled vacuum device, with replicate samples maintained under static conditions. Our results demonstrated increase in proliferative capacity of the cells subjected to cyclic strain compared with cells maintained under static conditions. The flexed cells also exhibited upregulation of the chondrocytic gene markers type II collagen and aggrecan. In addition, cyclic strain resulted in increased expression of the 2 and 5 integrin subunits, as well as an increased expression of vimentin. There was also intracellular reconfiguration of the enzyme protein kinase C. Our findings suggest that these molecules may play a role in the signal transduction pathway, eliciting cellular response to mechanical stimulation. 
4294889|The standard method for quantitating bone marrow precursor cells has been to count the number of colony-forming units that form in semisolid (0.3%) agar. Recently we adapted this assay for use in hardware, the Fluid Processing Apparatus, that is flown in standard payload lockers of the space shuttle. When mouse or rat macrophage colony-forming units were measured with this hardware in ground-based assays, we found significantly more colony growth than that seen in standard plate assays. The improved growth correlates with increased agar thickness but also appears to be due to properties inherent to the Fluid Processing Apparatus. This paper describes an improved method for determining bone marrow macrophage precursor numbers in semisolid agar.
4295342|Rabbit kidney proximal convoluted tubule (RPCT) and proximal straight tubule (RPST) cells were independently isolated and cultured. The kinetics of the sodium-dependent glucose transport was characterized by determining the uptake of the glucose analog alpha-methylglucopyranoside. Cell culture and assay conditions used in these experiments were based on previous experiments conducted on the renal cell line derived from the whole kidney of the Yorkshire pig (LLC-PK1). Results indicated the presence of two distinct sodium-dependent glucose transporters in rabbit renal cells: a relatively high-capacity, low-affinity transporter (
4294721| Signaling pathways utilized by EGF, cAMP, and TGF have been demonstrated to play critical roles in normal palate development. Stimulation of these pathways has been shown in palate cells and numerous other systems to affect cell growth. Because proper regulation of cell growth is critical to palate development, we speculate that fine regulation of palatal cell growth may be accomplished through crosstalk between these signaling pathways. We therefore set out to determine the effects of cAMP and TGF on EGF-induced cell proliferation in murine embryonic palate cells. We found that both TGF and cAMP inhibited the proliferative response of cells to treatment with EGF, whereas H89, a serine/ threonine protein kinase inhibitor with selectivity towards cAMP-dependent protein kinase, increased the cells' proliferative response to EGF. Genestein, a selective inhibitor of tyrosine kinases, at high doses abrogated the cells' proliferative response to EGF, confirming that EGF's ability to induce cell proliferation is critically dependent upon tyrosine kinase activity. Lower doses of genestein, however, actually enhanced cellular response to EGF. The data suggest that both the TGF- and cAMP-mediated signaling pathways may be involved in modulation of the effects of EGF on palate cell growth in vivo. 
20616548|The aim of this study was to compare the in vitro effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, stem cell factor, granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor, and co-culture with Sertoli cells on the efficiency of adult mouse spermatogonial stem cells colony formation. For these purpose, both Sertoli and spermatogonial cells were isolated from adult mouse testes. The identity of the cells was confirmed through analysis of alkaline phosphatase activity, immunocytochemistry against OCT-4, c-kit, and vimentin, and also by transplantation of these cells in the recipient testes. The isolated spermatogonial cells were treated either with various concentrations of the above mentioned factors or co-cultured with Sertoli cells for 3 wk. The spermatogonial cells of the resulting colonies were transplanted via rete testis into the mouse testes, which were irradiated with 14 Gy. The results indicated that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor is the most appropriate factor for in vitro colonization of adult mice spermatogonial cells compared with other cytokines and growth factors. A short-term co-culture with Sertoli cells showed a significant increase in the number and diameter of the colonies compared with the treated growth factors and the control group. We have also demonstrated that mouse spermatogonial stem cells in the colonies after co-culturing with Sertoli cells could induce spermatogenesis in the recipient testes after transplantation.
4295219|The success of insect cell culture is demonstrated by reports of over 500 established cell lines. While established procedures that can be used for developing new cell lines exist, these usually require some fine-tuning for various tissue sources. This paper attempts to depict some of the variations that can be applied.
4294839|We have formulated a tissue culture medium based on the components of larval honey bee hemolymph. Using an in vitro radiochemical assay to measure juvenile hormone biosynthesis, we compared our larval-based medium to four commercially available media (Grace's, Medium-199; Shields and Sang M3, and Minimum Essential Medium), and a medium based on adult honey bee hemolymph. All media were formulated without methionine. There was no significant difference in the amounts of juvenile hormone produced by the larval medium and Grace's; both of these media, however, were more suitable than the remaining four. Our larval-based tissue culture medium should prove useful in studies aimed at elucidating the underlying hormonal mechanism(s) of caste development in honey bees.
40928166|A new cell line [pearlspot fin (PSF)] has been developed from caudal fin of Etroplus suratensis, a brackish/freshwater fish cultivated in India. The cell line was maintained in Leibovitz's L-15 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The PSF cell line consisted predominantly of epithelial-like cells. The cells were able to grow at temperatures between 25C and 32C with optimum temperature of 28C. The growth rate of PSF cells increased as the FBS proportion increased from 2% to 20% at 28C with optimum growth at the concentration of 10% FBS. One marine fish virus (fish nodavirus) was tested on this cell line and found not susceptible. After confluency, the cells were subcultured with a split ratio of 1:2. The cells showed epithelial-like morphology and reached confluency on the third d after subculture. Polymerase chain reaction amplification of mitochondrial 16S rRNA and COI indicated identity of this cell line with those reported from this fish species, confirming that the cell line was of pearlspot origin. The cells were successfully cryopreserved and revived at the tenth, 25th, and 35th passages. The bacterial extracellular products from Vibrio cholerae MTCC 3904 were found to be toxic to PSF. Karyotyping analysis indicated that the modal chromosome number was 48.
4295501|In the lactating breast, the development of secretory alveoli consisting of differentiated cells arranged around a central lumen is dependent on signals from the extracellular environment of the cells. There are few cell lines that model this process. We previously showed that the human breast carcinoma line PMC42-LA can be induced to form organoids, reminiscent of secretory alveoli found in the lactating human breast. In this report, we used high-resolution scanning electron microscopy to show that the formation of organoids is accompanied by development of cell surface microvilli. Extracellular matrix-induced formation of microvilli occurred on the internal and external surfaces of cells in the organoids and not on surfaces in contact with the extracellular matrix. Organoid formation of PMC42-LA cells induced a rearrangement of the extracellular matrix, seen in the form of radiating fibers from the organoids. In summary, there is an interaction between PMC42-LA cells and the underlying extracellular matrix, which leads to the formation of polarized cells with well-developed microvilli. This is accompanied by organization of the extracellular matrix. PMC42-LA is a relevant model of the human breast for investigations into cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions.
4295365|Space flight with associated microgravity is complicated by "astronaut's anemia" and other hematologic abnormalities. Altered erythroid differentiation, red cell survival, plasma volume, and progenitor numbers have been reported. We studied the impact of microgravity on engraftable stem cells, culturing marrow cells in rotary wall vessel (RWV) culture chambers mimicking microgravity and in normal gravity nonadherent Teflon bottles. A quantitative competitive engraftment technique was assessed under both conditions in lethally irradiated hosts. We assessed 8-wk engraftable stem cells over a period spanning at least one cell cycle for cytokine (FLT-3 ligand, thrombopoietin [TPO], steel factor)-activated marrow stem cells. Engraftable stem cells were supported out to 56 h under microgravity conditions, and this support was superior to that seen in normal-gravity Teflon bottle cultures out to 40 h, with Teflon bottle culture support superior to RWV from 40 to 56 h. A nadir of stem cell number was seen at 40 h in Teflon and 48 h in RWV, suggesting altered marrow stem cell cycle kinetics under microgravity. This is the first study of engraftable stem cells under microgravity conditions, and the differences between microgravity and normal gravity cultures may present opportunities for unique future stem cell expansion strategies.
4294602|A methodology is presented to culture Fall Armyworm Ovary cells in simulated microgravity using a novel bioreactor developed by NASA, the High-Aspect Ratio Vessel. In this vessel, the growth and metabolic profile for these insect cells were profoundly different than those obtained in shaker-flask culture. Specifically, stationary phase in the NASA vessel was extended from 24 h to at least 7 d while cell concentration and viability remained in excess of
4294511|Conventional methods for isolating myogenic (satellite) cells are inadequate when only small quantities of muscle, the tissue in which satellite cells reside, are available. We have developed a tissue culture system that reliably permits isolation of intact, living, single muscle fibers with associated satellite cells from predominantly fast and slow muscles of rat and mouse; maintenance of the isolated fibers in vitro; dissociation, proliferation, and differentiation of satellite cells from each fiber; and removal of the fiber from culture for analysis.
20869599|The differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) into neural cells in vitro provides a potential tool to be utilized for cell therapy of neurode-generative disorders. Although previous studies repeated different protocols for the induction of neural cells from hMSCs in vitro, the results were not in complete agreement. In this study, we have attempted to compare three of these neural induction methods; retinoic acid (RA) treatment, RA treatment in serum reduced conditions, and treatment using other chemical compounds (dimethyl sulfoxide and potassium chloride) along with RA by real-time cell analysis and immunofluorescent staining of neural markers. RA treatment led to a slow progression of cells into neural-like morphology with the expression of neural protein neurofilament whereas reducing serum during RA treatment caused a much more extended differentiation process. Additionally, neural-like morphology was persistent in the later periods of differentiation in RA treatment. On the other hand, chemical induction caused cell shrinkages mimicking neural-like morphology in a short time and loss of this morphology along with increased cell death in later periods. Among the three methods compared, RA treatment was the most reliable one in terms of stability of differentiation and neural protein expressions.
20616541|CD81 is an integral membrane protein belonging to the tetraspanin superfamily. It has two extracellular domains that interact with cell surface proteins and two intracellular tails that contribute to cellular processes. Although there are considerable data about how CD81 affects T- and B-cell function, not much is known about how it impacts macrophages. To address this, we established four cell lines from mouse bone marrow in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor and transfection with SV40 large T antigen. Two were
24596451|The explosive Koi herpesvirus (KHV) epidemic has caused the deaths of a large number of carp and carp variants and has produced serious economic losses. The mirror carp (Cyprinus carpio var. specularis) exhibits strong environmental adaptability and its primary cells can be used to isolate KHV. This study utilized the tissue explant method to systematically investigate primary cell culture conditions for mirror carp snout and caudal fin tissues. We demonstrated that cells from these two tissue types had strong adaptability, and when cultured in Medium 199 (M199) containing 20% serum at 26 to 30C, the cells from the snout and caudal fin tissues exhibited the fastest egress and proliferation. Inoculation of these two cell types with KHV-infected fish kidney tissues produced typical cytopathic effects; additionally, identification by electron microscopy, and PCR indicated that KHV could be isolated from both cell types.
4294819|This study involves the investigation of the lipid composition of the skin of Rana tigerina which has a significant healing capacity. The results indicated that the lipid extract enhanced keratinocyte and fibroblast cell proliferation progressively and were found to be much more efficient in comparison to agents known to cause cell proliferation and to be antiinflammatory such as hydrocortisone. Cell proliferation was dose dependent and suppression occurred only at very high doses. [
4294953|This article describes HKT-1097, a new cell line established from renal tumors induced by the protracted administration of diethylstilbestrol (DES) to male Syrian golden hamsters. Cell culture was initiated from tumor samples obtained from two 14-mo.-old animals which had undergone exposure to DES for a period of 11 mo. The HKT-1097 cell line was characterized between Passages 16 and 22 with respect to cell morphology, growth properties, karyology, and the presence of estrogen receptors. Moreover, immunostaining with a panel of antisera was performed to identify the cytological profile of the cell line and establish a parallel with tumor tissue in vivo. HKT-1097 cells are fibroblastoid; their most distinctive feature is that they exhibit strikingly long processes. The HKT-1097 cell line grows as a monolayer with a tendency toward a less stringent density-dependent inhibition of growth. The modal chromosome number is 44, but more than 50% of the cells are aneuploid, suggesting a substantial degree of karyotype instability. HKT-1097 cells express estrogen receptors. They contain immunoreactive vimentin and desmin, but appear negative upon cytokeratin immunostaining. In addition, these cells express glial fibrillary acidic protein and other markers of the neuroectodermal lineage, but lack neurofilament protein. Insofar as the same lineage markers have been demonstrated in DES-induced Syrian hamster kidney tumors (SHKT), we conclude that HKT-1097 cells retain some of the original tumor cell phenotype. The current observations suggest that estrogen-induced SHKT derive from the renal interstitium and point to an involvement of neuroectodermal cells in the development of these neoplasms.
20172260|Secondary macrophage cell cultures were generated from the primary culture of epiblasts of 8-d-old pig blastocysts. The epiblast-derived macrophagelike (EDM) cells have a morphology and ameboid behavior that is typical of tissue histocytes. The cells reacted positively with monoclonal antibodies specific for pig granulocyte-macrophage lineage cells, and were not reactive with monoclonal antibodies specific for pig B and T lymphocytes. Marked phagocytic behavior and the formation of phagosomes were demonstrated following incubation with FITC-labeled bacteria. The EDM cells stained positively for nonspecific acid esterase that was not inhibited by sodium fluoride. DiI-acetylated-LDL was rapidly taken up by the cells. Transmission electron microscopy of the EDM cells showed phagolysosomes, numerous cytoplasmic vacuoles, large, lobed nuclei, and numerous pseudopods or filopodia at the cell surface. Strong reactivity of the cells with anti-CD14 monoclonal antibody was observed. Further, cytotoxic activity was produced from the EDM cells after exposure to lipopolysaccharide in a concentration and time-dependent manner. The cultures could be maintained and expanded for several months on STO co-culture. Their derivation from the epiblast of the pig demonstrates the possibility of obtaining hemopoietic cell cultures from the preimplantation blastocysts of all mammals.
4294069|Serum-free mouse embryo (SFME) cells are a cell line derived in medium in which serum is replaced with growth factors and other supplements. These cells display unusual properties: a) they do not lose proliferative potential or show gross chromosomal aberration upon extended culture, b) they depend on epidermal growth factor (EGF) for survival, and c) they are reversibly growth inhibited by plasma and serum. Transfection of SFME cells with oncogenes (ras, neu, SV40 T antigen) results in cells that grow in serum-supplemented medium and no longer require EGF for survival. The growth inhibitory activity of human plasma on SFME cells was investigated. The activity was present in delipidated plasma and was not dialyzable against 1 M acetic acid. The activity precipitated in 33% methanol, bound to concanavalin A-agarose and was retarded by Sephadex G-50 in 200 mM acetic acid. A fifty- to one-hundred-fold purification was achieved, although most of the differential inhibition of untransformed vs. transformed cells was lost in the course of the purification.
4295619|One approach to the engineering of functional cardiac tissue for basic studies and potential clinical use involves bioreactor cultivation of dissociated cells on a biomaterial scaffold. Our objective was to develop a scaffold that is (1) highly porous with large interconnected pores (to facilitate mass transport), (2) hydrophilic (to enhance cell attachment), (3) structurally stable (to withstand the shearing forces during bioreactor cultivation), (4) degradable (to provide ultimate biocompatibility of the tissue graft), and (5) elastic (to enable transmission of contractile forces). The scaffold of choice was made as a composite of poly(DL-lactide-co-caprolactone), poly(DL-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA), and type I collagen, with open interconnected pores and the average void volume of
40205875|A new cell line, MSU-TnT4 (TnT4), was established from Trichoplusia ni embryos for use with baculovirus expression vectors and evaluated for its potential for membrane protein production. To evaluate membrane protein synthesis, recombinant baculoviruses were constructed to express the human neurotensin receptor 1 as an enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion. TnT4 cells had a doubling time of 21 h and expressed the membrane-GFP fusion protein at approximately twice the level as Sf21 cells from the p10 promoter, as evaluated by GFP intensity. Expression of secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) was similar to that of Sf21 cells. Expression of membrane-GFP fusion proteins in recombinant baculoviruses provides a rapid method for evaluating the potential of new cell lines for the production of membrane proteins using a baculovirus expression vector system (BEVS).
40205817|With the development of cell-based assays and therapies, the purity of reagents used to grow and maintain cells has become much more important. In particular, the use of fetal calf serum for culturing cells presents a direct path for potential contamination of cell cultures. In recent years, much research has focused on the development of serumfree culturing systems, not only to alleviate difficulties due to availability and cost of fetal calf serum but also to prevent the transmission of potentially fatal diseases to human patients. Additionally, methods need to be developed for long-term storage of cell stocks that also reduce the risk of exposure to harmful diseases. As most methods employ fetal calf serum in their freezing formulations, solutions that avoid the use of fetal calf serum while providing equivalent or better recovery of cells upon thawing would be ideal. In this study, two vascular cell lines have been cryopreserved as adherent cell populations in two widely used cryoprotectants, dimethyl sulfoxide and 1,2-propanediol, and two vehicle solutions, Euro-Collins and Unisol-cryoprotectant vehicle specifically formulated for the maintenance of cell homeostasis at temperatures below 37 C. The addition of serum to these formulations was also evaluated to determine if its presence provided any additional benefit to the cells during cryopreservation. The results demonstrated that using vehicle solutions designed for lower temperatures produced viable cells that retained cell population viability values up to 75% of unfrozen controls. These results also demonstrated that including serum in the formulation provided no additional benefit to the cells and in some cases actually produced lower cell viability after cryopreservation. In conclusion, the development of solutions designed for low-temperature storage of cells provides a viable alternative to more conventional cryopreservation protocols and eliminates the necessity of including serum in these formulations.
4295083| A murine endothelial cell line was recently established from microvessels that had invaded a subcutaneous sponge implant (Dong, Q. G.; Bemasconi, S.; Lostaglio, S., et al. Arterioscl. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 17:1599-1604; 1997). From these sponge-induced endothelial (SIE) cells, we have isolated two subpopulations endowed with different phenotypic properties. Clone SIE-F consists of large, highly spread cells that have a relatively slow growth rate, form contact-inhibited monolayers, do not grow under anchorage-independent conditions, express elevated levels of thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) and are not tumor-igenic in vivo. In contrast, clone SIE-S2 consists of small, spindle-shaped cells that have a high proliferation rate, do not show contact-inhibition, grow under anchorage-independent conditions, express very low levels of TSP-1 and are tumorigenic in vivo. Both clones express the endothelial markers vascular endothelial-cadherin and vascular intercellular adhesion molecule-1, but do not express CD31 and E-selectin. In addition, SIE-S2 cells, but not SIE-F cells, express the -smooth muscle actin isoform. SIE-S2 cells, but not SIE-F cells, are able to form branching tubes in fibrin gels. The SIE-F and SIE-S2 clones, which have properties of nontransformed and transformed cells, respectively, should provide useful tools to investigate physiological and pathological processes involving vascular endothelium. 
4295572| Selection for resistance against Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) Cry1Ac10 in the Trichoplusia ni (Hbner) cell line BTI-TN-5B1-4 (TnH5) was tested, and the development of resistance in the selected cells was like a S-form curve. Monitoring at the CrylAcl0 50th challenge, the resistance ratio was 1, 294-fold as many as that of initial cells. But the resistance to Cry1Acl0 declined gradually when the selection was relaxed. The resistance declined rapidly at the low level of resistance and slowly at the high level of resistance. This resistant cell had high resistance to all the tested solubilized trypsin-treated mixture of crystal multitoxins of B. thuringiensis subsp. aizawai GC-91, an engineering bacterium of Bt, B. thuringiensis subsp. aizawai HD-133 and B. thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki HD-1, and low cross-resistance (19.7-fold) to activated Cry1C. Both N-acetyl-D-galactosamine (GalNAc) and tunicamycin did not inhibit the toxicity of CrylAcl0 to the susceptible TnH5 cells. Comparison of the total proteins of the selected resistant cells with that of the nonselected susceptible cells by two-dimensional electrophoresis analysis showed that were obvious differences among the 11 protein expressions. These results strongly suggest that there exists an unknown mechanism of resistance in the cell line that was different from the reported mechanisms in insects. 
4295487| In situ collagen gelation is a method that combines a static three-dimensional culture technique with rotating bioreactors. This method was designed for large dense tissue engineering ex vivo. To challenge the current limitations on size, we combined the static collagen gel embedding method with high-aspect ratio rotating bioreactors. Rat calvarial cells in gelated collagens were cultured in rotating vessels with 5 mM -glycerophosphate-containing medium for 1, 2, or 3 wk and then analyzed for cell morphology, cell distribution, and viability, as well as for contraction of the collagen gel. The size of collagen gels with rat calvarial cells averaged 2.8 cm in diameter x 0.25 cm in thickness at the end of 3 wk. Scanning electron microscopy and laser scanning confocal microscopy of collagen gels revealed a homogenous distribution of living cells. Despite the barrier effects from induced calcification, in collagen gels, cell metabolic activity (alkaline phosphatase assay and 3-[4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl]-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide assay) increased over the 3 wk, and cell viability (trypan blue exclusion and flow cytometry analysis) remained at about 90% at the end of 3 wk. Based on our results, we determined that in situ collagen gelation provides a feasible method for engineering large dense tissue ex vivo. 
23279359|In situ zymography is a unique technique for detection and localization of enzymesubstrate interactions majorly in histological sections. Substrate with quenched fluorogenic molecule is incorporated in gel over which tissue sections are mounted and then incubated in buffer. The enzymatic activity is observed in the form of fluorescent signal. With the advancements in the field of biological research, use of in vitro cell culture has become very popular and holds great significance in multiple fields including inflammation, cancer, stem cell biology and the still emerging 3-D cell cultures. The information on analysis of enzymatic activity in cell lines is inadequate presently. We propose a single-step methodology that is simple, sensitive, cost-effective, and functional to perform and study the 'in position' activity of enzyme on substrate for in vitro cell cultures. Quantification of enzymatic activity to carry out comparative studies on cells has also been illustrated. This technique can be applied to a variety of enzyme classes including proteases, amylases, xylanases, and cellulases in cell cultures.
4294787|We have developed an in vitro system to examine the influence of adipocytes, a major mammary stromal cell type, on the growth of a murine mammary carcinoma, SP1 Previously, we have shown that 3T3-L1 adipocytes release a mitogenic factor, hepatocyte growth factor, which strongly stimulates proliferation of SP1 cells. We now show that 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes secrete active inhibitory molecules which inhibit DNA synthesis in SP1 cells. In addition, latent inhibitory activity is present in conditioned media (CM) from both pre-adipocytes and adipocytes, and is activated following acid treatment. CM also inhibited DNA synthesis in Mv1Lu wild type epithelial cells, but not DR27 mutant epithelial cells which lack
4294118|Recent studies have noted the presence of putative stem cells derived from the connective tissues associated with skeletal muscle, heart, and dermis. Long-term continuous cultures of these cells from each tissue demonstrated five distinct phenotypes of mesodermal origin, i.e. muscle, fat, cartilage, bone, and connective tissue. Clonal analysis was performed to determine whether these morphologies were the result of a mixed population of lineage-committed stem cells or the differentiation of pluripotent stem cells or both. Putative stem cells from four tissues (skeletal muscle, dermis, atria, and ventricle) were isolated and cloned. Combined, 1158 clones were generated from the initial cloning and two subsequent subclonings. Plating efficiency approximated 5.8%. Approximately 70% of the 1158 clones displayed a pure stellate morphology, while the remaining clones contained a mixture of stellate, chondrogenic- or osteogenic-like morphologies or both. When cultured in the presence of dexamethasone, cells from all clones differentiated in a time- and concentration-dependent manner into muscle, fat, cartilage, and bone. These results suggest that pluripotent mesenchy-mal stem cells are present within the connective tissues of skeletal muscle, dermis, and heart and may prove useful for studies concerning the regulation of stem cell differentiation, wound healing, and tissue restoration, replacement and repair.
4295353|Brain tumor formation and growth is accompanied by the proliferation and infiltration of blood capillaries. The phenotypes of endothelial cells that make up capillaries are known to differ not only in the tissues in which endothelial cells are located but also as a result of the microenvironment to which they are exposed. For this reason, primary cultures of brain endothelial cells were isolated from human brain tumors removed by surgery and compared with cells from normal tissue. The primary confluent monolayers that grew out of isolated capillary fragments consisted of closely associated, elongated, fusiform-shaped cells. But brain tumor-derived endothelial cells in culture exhibited significantly less expression of endothelial-specific Factor VIII-related antigen compared with cells isolated from normal tissue. Cultured cells that exhibited binding of Ulex europaeus lectin were shown to take up Dil-Ac-Ldl and formed continuous monolayers that were joined together by tight junctions. The cells also exhibited characteristics of the cells of the brain microvasculature in vitro as seen by the presence of large numbers of mitochondria and few pinocytotic vesicles and by the absence of Weibel-Palade bodies within the cells. The expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, E-Selectin, and the tight junction associated protein ZO-1 but not intercellular adhesion molecule-1 was demonstrated by immunohistological staining or reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction methodologies. Comparative studies of these endothelial cells with endothelial cells from normal tissue will be useful for determining and understanding how the blood-brain barrier differs and functions in tumor and healthy tissues and may lead to strategies for brain tumor therapeutic approaches.
4294967|A quantitative study was made of the cytotoxicity of methotrexate (MTX) for nontransformed and transformed NIH 3T3 cells in the presence and absence of leucovorin. The study was preceded by an analysis of the growth rates of the cells at low and high population density combined with low and high concentrations of calf serum (CS). The reduced maximal growth rates of the transformed cells at low population densities relative to the nontransformed cells reinforced earlier evidence that heritable damage involving chromosome aberrations drives the process of transformation. When small numbers of transformed cells are cocultured with a large excess of nontransformed cells in the assay for transformed foci, the transformed cells were more readily killed by MTX than the nontransformed cells. The selectivity was increased when leucovorin (folinic acid) was present in the medium. The selective killing of the transformed cells actively multiplying in foci was most pronounced when the background of nontransformed cells had become confluent and their growth was inhibited. However, selectivity has also been demonstrated when transformed and nontransformed cells are growing at their maximum rates at low density despite the lower growth rate of the transformed cells under these conditions. The sensitivity of transformed cells in pure culture to MTX was lower during the first 3 d of subculture than in the following 6 d but decreased to zero a few d after net growth had ceased. The nontransformed cells were more susceptible to killing by MTX in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) than in MCDB 402, but the transformed cells were sensitive to MTX in both media. The high selectivity of MTX for transformed over nontransformed cells in MCDB 402 results from the presence of 1.0 [lM leucovorin (5-formyltetrahydrofolate), a reduced form of the folic acid present in most other culture media. When leucovorin was added to DMEM with its high concentration of folic acid, the resistance to MTX of both nontransformed and transformed cells was greatly increased, but the selectivity of MTX for transformed cells was almost entirely lost. The results indicate that leucovorin protects nontransformed cells against concentrations of MTX that kill transformed cells, but the protection is dependent on the relative amounts of leucovorin to folic acid in the medium. The relative sensitivities of transformed and nontransformed cells in our system to MTX when both cell types are exhibiting their characteristic differential in growth behavior is similar to that described for tumor and normal cells in vivo. Since the unregulated growth behavior of the transformed, tumor-producing cells is efficiently and quantitatively measured in this system, it can be used to develop general principles of treatment and resolve questions of cytotoxic mechanism.
4295264| Cultured cell lines that can be stably transformed with inducible gene constructs could prove extremely valuable for the continuous and economical production of recombinant proteins. Toward this goal, we have established 11 clones (designated NISES-BoMo-DK1 to 11) from a previously reported silkworm cell line, NISES-BoMo-DZ. Nine of these clonal lines showed a distinct morphological change, i.e., cell aggregation, in response to treatment with 1 M 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E). DK10 cells transfected with various reporter assay plasmids under optimal conditions (i.e., 20-30% transfection efficiency) showed inducibility of gene expression by 20E. The 20E treatment of the prototypical DK10 cells resulted in a simultaneous, transient increase of the nuclear ecdysone (E) receptor levels. Further, this inducibility was also observed in a DK10 cell line stably transformed with the reporter plasmid that carries the hygromycin-resistance gene. This offers an opportunity to achieve efficient, continuous production of recombinant proteins. It could also allow high throughput screening for potential E agonists. 
4295613| Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) has been used to promote periodontal regeneration following the premise that constituent transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1) and platelet-derived growth factor-AB will stimulate cell proliferation at the site of application. In previous studies, we demonstrated that PRP mimics TGF-1 to modulate proliferation in a cell type-specific manner, that fibrin clot formation by PRP upregulates type I collagen, and that an unidentified factor(s) in PRP increases alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in human periodontal ligament (PDL) cell cultures. We have now examined the effects of PRP on in vitro mineralization. Platelet-rich plasma and PDL cells were prepared from human adult volunteers or rats. After 20 d of continuous treatment with PRP in dexamethazone (Dex)-containing osteogenic medium, PRP time dependently promoted mineralization by rat PDL cells but failed to fully induce the osteoblastic phenotype. Furthermore, when human PDL cells were induced to increase ALP activity in osteogenic medium that lacked Dex, a condition that should delay (or suppress) osteoblastic differentiation, transmission electron microscopy revealed that mineralized spicules were initially deposited onto PRP-derived platelet aggregates. Taken together with our previous data, these findings suggest that PRP provides platelet aggregates as nuclei to initiate mineralization while stimulating PDL cell proliferation, differentiation, and collagen production. The combination of these effects may effectively mediate PRP's ability to promote regeneration of periodontal tissue, including skeletal tissue, at the site of injury. 
4294575| A flow cytometric technique was developed to measure the relative concentration of whey protein and -casein in individual fixed and permeabilized bovine mammary epithelial cells. Primary bovine mammary epithelial cells were compared to mammary cells isolated from explants after a 24-h incubation and a bovine mammary epithelial transfected cell line (MAC-T). Cells were incubated with rabbit anti-bovine whey protein (-lactalbumin + -lactoglobulin) or -casein primary antibodies followed by a fluorescein-labeled goat anti-rabbit IgG second antibody. The number and intensity of fluorescing cells were measured using an EPICS Profile Flow Cytometer. Primary and explant cells contained 3.3 and 2.8 times more whey protein than MAC-T cells. Explant epithelial cells contained 2.9 and 5.1 times more -casein than primary or MAC-T cells. The higher concentrations of specific proteins within the cells was attributed to either greater synthesis or reduced secretion. These data show that flow cytometry is capable of detecting differences in milk protein concentration in different mammary epithelial cell types. 
23279367|The present study was aimed to assess the cytotoxic effects of not-yet identified compounds present in organ extracts of Sarpa salpa, collected in autumn, the period with a peak in health problems. In addition, we studied the cytotoxicity of extracts of epiphytes found in the stomach content of S. salpa collected in summer and of epiphytes collected from the sea in the Sfax area at the end of spring. We tested these fractions in two human hepatic cell lines: HepG2 and WRL68. We observed a significant loss of viable cells when HepG2 cells were exposed for 72 h to acetone extracts of livers of S. salpa at a concentration of 2.5 mg/ml protein. Proteins extracted from brain or muscle did not significantly induce cell death at the studied concentrations (10 mg/ml). There was a significant loss of viable cells when treated with liver extract of S. salpa dissolved in DMSO. Extracts of epiphytes collected in late spring showed a cytotoxic effect in a concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, we observed a significantly decreased cell viability of HepG2 at a dilution (1/40) of epiphyte extracts from stomach contents of two fish we had collected. The cytotoxic effect of the observed epiphyte extracts confirms the transfer of toxins originating from toxic dinoflagellates which live in epiphyte on the Posidonia oceanica leaves to fish organs by grazing. Hence, the liver of this fish can cause a threat to human health and consumption should for this reason be dissuaded.
4294253| A method is presented for isolating primary osteoblasts from the periosteal surface of chick tibia. The culture system identified supports both cell proliferation and phenotype retention. Cell numbers increased 8-fold in Week 1 and 20-fold over a total of 12 days. Well-established osteoblast markers, alkaline phosphatase staining, -carboxyglutamic acid, osteocalcin, type I collagen, and parathyroid hormone binding were detected. Osteocalcin, -carboxyglutamic acid, and type I collagen were present on culture Day 4, and were increased in amount by Day 8, but were similar to the earlier level on Day 12, suggesting that the phenotype may revert to a less differentiated state by 12 days in culture. Alkaline phosphatase staining was intense at all three assay times, however. During the last 4 days of the 12-day culture period, proliferation rates were higher than in the previous 8 days. 
4294028|The Flaviviridae include almost 70 viruses, nearly half of which have been associated with human disease. These viruses are among the most important arthropod-borne viruses worldwide and include dengue, yellow fever, and Japanese encephalitis viruses. Morbidity and mortality caused by these viruses vary, but collectively they account for millions of encephalitis, hemorrhagic fever, arthralgia, rash, and fever cases per year. Most of the members of this family are transmitted between vertebrate hosts by arthropod vectors, most commonly mosquitoes or ticks. Transmission cycles can be simple or complex depending on the hosts, vectors, the virus, and the environmental factors affecting both hosts and viruses. Replication of virus in invertebrate hosts does not seem to result in any significant pathology, which suggests a close evolutionary relationship between virus and vector. Another example of this relationship is the ability of these viruses to grow in invertebrate cell culture, where replication usually results in a steady state, persistent infection, often without cytopathic effect. Yields of virus from insect cell culture vary but are generally similar to yields in vertebrate cells. Replication kinetics are comparable between insect and vertebrate cell lines, despite differences in incubation temperature. Both vertebrate and insect cell culture systems continue to play a significant role in flavivirus isolation and the diagnosis of disease caused by these agents. Additionally, these culture systems permit the study of flavivirus attachment, penetration, replication, and release from cells and have been instrumental in the production and characterization of live-attenuated vaccines. Both vertebrate and insect cell culture systems will continue to play a significant role in basic and applied flavivirus research in the future.
4294785|A study of the liver pigment cells of Rana esculenta L. has been performed on both liver in toto and cells in culture. Ultrastructural and cytochemical analyses showed a close relationship between this visceral pigment cell system and the cells of hepatic macrophage lineage. Like the latter, the liver pigment cells present phagocytic activity, in the sinusoids and in vitro, and give a positive response to tests for peroxidase and lipase. The liver pigment cells are isolated, together with the Kupffer cells, from the sinusoidal cell fraction of the liver. In culture, they maintain their melanogenetic ability, demonstrated by the presence of dopaoxidase activity in the soluble, membranous, and melanosome fractions. Analysis of the cultures showed that as culture time increased, so did melanosome dopaoxidase activity, the number of pigmented fields, and the level of pigmentation of the cells. The values of dopaoxidase activity of the pigment cells in culture show the same seasonal oscillations as the system in toto, indicating that the cells maintain an internal clock, at least in the first 72 h of culture. There is evidence that the pigment cells are macrophages which can express a melanogenetic function. Our results and other experimental data provide a basis for hypothesizing that the pigment cells in Rana esculenta L. liver may derive from, or have a common origin with, the Kupffer cells.
41511620|Whole body vibration (WBV) is one of the most vexing problems in industries. There is a debate about the effect of WBV exposure on hearing system as vibration-induced hearing loss. The purpose of this study was to investigate outer hair cells' (OHCs') hearing response hearing response to distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) in rabbits exposed to WBV. It was hypothesized that the DPOAE response amplitudes (A dp ) in rabbits exposed to WBV would be lower than those in control rabbits not exposed to WBV. New Zealand white (NZW) rabbits as vibration group (n=6, exposed to WBV in the z-axis at 4-8 Hz and 1.0 ms root mean square for 8 h per day during five consecutive days) and NZW rabbits as control group (n=6, not exposed to any WBV) were participated. A dp and noise floor levels (L nf ) were examined on three occasions: day 0 (i.e., baseline), day 8 (i.e., immediately 1 h after exposure), and day 11 (i.e., 72 h following exposure) with f frequencies ranging from 500 to 10,000 Hz and primaries L and L levels of 65 and 55 dB sound pressure level, respectively. Main effects were statistically found to be significant for group, time, and frequency (p<0.05). DPOAE amplitudes were significantly larger for rabbits exposed to WBV, larger on day 8 and larger for mid to high f frequencies (at and above 5,888.50 Hz). Main effects were not statistically found to be significant for ear (p>0.05). Also, four statistically significant interactions including time by ear, time by frequency, group by frequency, and group by time were detected (P<0.05). Contrary to the main hypothesis, DPOAE amplitudes were significantly larger for rabbits exposed to WBV. WBV exposure significantly led to enhanced mean A dp at mid to high frequencies rather than at low ones.
20869528|PKCs can have opposite effects on ERK phosphorylation. Novel (n)PKCs can inhibit ERK by phosphorylation of Raf-1, classical and atypical PKCs can activate ERK by removing an inhibitory protein from Raf-1. The aim of this work was to clarify how PMA-activated PKCs lead to ERK activation in MCF-7 cells expressing mainly nPKCs. Using chemical inhibitors and antibodies against PKCs, delivered into cells by the Chariot transfection system, we found that nPKCs activate ERK through transphosphorylation of PKD1, the blockage of which prevented PMA-stimulated ERK activation. We conclude that the nPKCs/PKD1 cascade is determinant for ERK activation by PMA in MCF-7 cells.
40205862|The signals for epidermal differentiation and barrier formation are largely unknown. One possible signal is dehydration or osmotic stress. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the effects of osmotic stress on markers of differentiation of normal human keratinocytes in culture. Hyperosmotic stress treatment of normal human keratinocyte cultures by elevated sorbitol concentrations was observed to induce markers of terminal differentiation. Sorbitol was added to keratinocyte media at 50, 100, 200, and 300 mM final concentration. These concentrations of sorbitol induce a dehydration effect or osmotic stress on the keratinocytes. These sorbitol treatments increased the levels of messenger RNA for the differentiation markers involucrin, transglutaminase, and filaggrin as measured by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Keratin K1 and K10 and involucrin protein levels were also increased in normal human keratinocyte cultures exposed to increasing osmotic stress. These observations suggest that keratinocytes in the epidermis may use dehydration as a sign to trigger the differentiation of the skin barrier.
4295507| Continuous cell lines are widely used in cell biology and serve as model systems in basic and applied research. Fundamental requirements for the use of cell lines are a well-identified origin and the exclusion of cross-contamination by prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. Because the cross-contamination of one cell line with another cell line may occur in a concealed manner, special emphasis must be taken to (1) prevent such an "accident" and (2) monitor regularly the identity of the cell line(s) in use. Apart from human cell lines, mouse-, rat-, and hamster-derived cell lines are used in basic cell culture and biotechnology. We established a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay to detect and confirm the species origin for these species and to detect interspecies cross-contamination. Our PCR method is based on oligonucleotide primers annealing to specific sequences in the -globin gene, which were designed to amplify one deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) segment only per analyzed sample. We confirmed the species identity of 82 cell lines as human, mouse, rat, and Syrian hamster by -globin PCR. The DNAs from eight additional cell lines of less frequently used species were not amplified with the primers chosen. Cross-contamination of 5-10% of either mouse or rat DNA was detectable. One species-specific primer pair was sufficient for confirmation of the expected species, and for identification of an unknown cell line the combination of two or more primer pairs is suggested. Our PCR assay represents a powerful, fast, easy, robust, and inexpensive method for speciation and does not need any elaborate sequencing or computer-based analysis system. 
4295372|This report focuses on angiotensin II AT
4295300|The aim of this study was to develop a method for fractionation of articular chondrocytes from the entire thickness of the tissue. Isolated chondrocytes from rabbit articular cartilage fractionated by centrifugation in a discontinuous Percoll gradient resulted in four cell fractions with two differing properties. The lowest-density fraction consisted mainly of large cells with small nuclei proliferated actively, maintained the chondrocytic phenotype, and secreted larger amounts of proteoglycan. In contrast, the highest-density fraction consisted of small cells with large nuclei proliferated slowly, did not express the chondrocytic phenotype, and produced larger amounts of interleukin 1-induced nitric oxide. Comparing our results with other previous reports, we find that fraction 1 cells are likely originated from the deep layer of the articular cartilage, whereas fraction 4 cells are tentatively categorized as chondrocytes from the superficial layer of cartilage. Centrifugal fractionation of articular chondrocytes via Percoll density gradient permits clear separation of these heterogeneous cells into different phenotypic populations and allows distinguishing of cells from the different layers of articular cartilage. This simple novel method will provide ready separation of articular chondrocytes for the investigation of the pathogenesis of articular cartilage.
4294547|Isolation and maintenance of porcine embryonic stem (pES) cells have been hindered by the inability to inhibit differentiation of the porcine inner cell mass (pICM) in vitro. Culture conditions currently in use have been developed from mouse ES cell culture and are not effective for maintaining the pICM. Optimizing culture conditions for the pICM is essential. We have developed a grading system to detect changes in the differentiation status of in vitro cultured pICM. Porcine ICMs (Day 7) were isolated by immunosurgery and cultured for 4 d in either Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)-based medium (D medium) or DMEM/Ham's F-10 (l:l)-based medium (D/H medium) with or without human Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (hLIF, 1000 iu/ml). Colonies were photographed daily for morphological analysis. pICMs were categorized into one of two types based on their morphological profile: type A, nonepithelial or type B, epithelial-like. Eight investigators evaluated pICM differentiation using standardized differentiation profiles. Each pICM series was graded on a scale of 1 (fully undifferentiated) to 5 (fully differentiated) for each time point. Differentiation was verified by alkaline phosphatase activity, cytokeratin staining, and scanning electron microscopy. Neither hLIF nor culture medium delayed differentiation of pICMs (P = 0.08 and P = 0.25, respectively). The grading system employed was an effective tool for detecting treatment effects on differentiation of the developing pICM. These results demonstrate that hLIF cannot significantly inhibit differentiation of the pICM, and is unlikely to assist in porcine ES cell isolation. Future experiments utilizing homologous cytokines may prove more beneficial.
41408876|Residents of the marine environment, sponges (Porifera) have the ability to produce organic compounds known as secondary metabolites, which are not directly involved in the normal growth, development, or reproduction of an organism. Because of their sessile nature, the production of these bioactive compounds has been interpreted as a functional adaptation to serve in an important survival role as a means to counter various environmental stress factors such as prdation, overgrowth by fouling organisms, or competition for limited space. Regardless of the reasons for this adaptation, a variety of isolated compounds have already proven to demonstrate remarkable anticancer, fungicidal, and antibiotic properties. A major obstacle to the isolation and production of novel compounds from sponges is the lack of a large, reliable source of sponge material. Sponge collection from the sea would be environmentally detrimental to the already stressed and sparse sponge populations. Sponge production in an aquaculture setting might appear to be an ideal alternative but would also be cost-ineffective and sponge growth is extremely slow. A third approach involves the development of a sponge cell culture system capable of producing the necessary cell numbers to harvest for research purposes as well as for the eventual commercial-scale production of promising bioactive compounds. Unfortunately, little progress has been made in this direction other than the establishment of temporary cultures containing aggregates and fragments of cells. One impediment toward successful sponge cell culture might be ascribed to a lack of published knowledge of failed methodologies, and thus, time and effort is wasted on continued reinvention of the same methods and procedures. Consequently, we have undertaken here to chart some of our unsuccessful research efforts, our methodology, and results to provide the sponge research community with knowledge to assist them to better avoid taking the same failed pathways.
20172273|To develop a serum-free, chemically defined in vitro organ culture system enabling the study of epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in development and growth of fish dermal skeleton, we investigated in vitro continuation of scale regeneration in the cichlid fish Hemichromis bimaculatus. The culture medium in our system is based on Leibovitz medium (L-15) supplemented with vitamin C, additional amino acids, and HEPES. With this basis medium, we examined the effects of all trans-retinoic acid, dexamethasone, and prostaglandin-E2 (PG-E2), factors known to exert an effect on development and growth of teeth and bone in mammalian culture systems, on the in vitro regeneration of scales. These effects were compared with those obtained by supplementation of the basis medium with newborn and fetal calf serum. To evaluate our culture system, the medium that allowed to mimick in the best possible way the in vivo regeneration of scales (i.e., the basis medium plus dexamethasone and PG-E2) was also tested on the in vitro development of teeth in the same fish species. Our serum-free, chemically defined organ culture system enables in vitro development and growth of both scales and teeth. With this model culture system, it is possible to evaluate the in vitro effects of hormones, growth factors, and other substances on growth and development of dermal skeleton in fish.
40663808|A large number of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines have been derived worldwide since the first hESC line establishment in 1998. Despite many common characteristics, most important of which is the pluripotency, hESC lines vary significantly in their transcriptional profiles, genetic, and epigenetic state. These differences may arise both from individual genetics of the cell lines and from variations in their handling such as isolation and cultivation. In order to minimize the latter differences, the standardized protocols of cultivation and inter-laboratory comprehensive studies should be performed. In this report, we summarized our experience of derivation and characterization of hESC lines as well as of adaptation of hESCs to novel cultivation protocols. We have successfully derived five hESC lines and characterized them by previously established criteria, including expression of specific markers and the capacity to differentiate both in vitro and in vivo. Four of these lines, namely hESM01-04, were initially derived using mouse fibroblasts as a feeder and currently are maintained under feeder-free, serum-free conditions using mTeSRl and Matrigel. The fifth line, hESMK05 was derived in feeder-free, serum-free conditions using mTeSRl and Matrigel. Cell lines retain their pluripotent status and normal karyotype for more than 70 passages and are available to the scientific community.
23481709|The podocyte is a remarkable cell type, which encases the capillaries of the kidney glomerulus. Podocytes are of keen interests because of their key roles in kidney development and disease. Large-conductance Ca 2+ -activated K + channels (BK Ca channels) are important ion channels located in podocytes and play the essential role in regulating calcium homeostasis cell signaling. In this research, we studied the undergoing developmental changes of BK Ca channels and their contribution to functional maturation of podocytes. Our results showed that the distribution of BK Ca channels changed with the maturity of differentiation in a conditionally immortalized mouse podocyte cell line. Additionally, the increase of BK Ca channel protein expression was detected by immunofluorescence staining with confocal microscopy in podocytes, which was consistent with the increase in the current density of BK Ca channels examined by whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Our results suggested that the developmental changes of BK Ca channels may help podocytes adapt to changes in pressure gradients occurring in physiological conditions. Those findings may have implications for understanding the physiology and development of kidney and will also serve as a baseline for future studies designed to investigate developmental changes of ion channel expression in podocytes.
40205920|Primary cell cultures from Crustacea have been initiated since the 1960s, yet no permanent cell line is available. Primary cells have a limited proliferative capacity in culture due to cellular senescence, which is regulated by a group of dominant senescence genes. The aim of this research was to manipulate cell cycle regulation by transfecting Cherax quadricarinatus primary cells with oncogenes, in an effort to induce a permanent cell line. Human papillomaviruses (HPV) play a critical role in the formation of anogenital cancer. Research has demonstrated that the HPV-expressed E6 and E7 proteins function concomitantly to disrupt the p53 and retinoblastoma (Rb) tumor suppressor genes, regulators of the cell-cycle checkpoints at the first gap (G) phase. HPV E6 and E7 genes were transfected into the C. quadricarinatus cells by lipofection. Successful transfection was demonstrated by the presence of oncogene messenger RNA by reverse transciptase polymerase chain reaction. At day 150, transfected cells still remain viable, although cell proliferation was stagnant. It may be that while transfection of the oncogenes was successful, no proliferation of the C. quadricarinatus cells was evident due to a lack of telomere maintenance.
40663817|The ability to maintain human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) during long-term culture and yet induce differentiation to multiple lineages potentially provides a novel approach to address various biomedical problems. Here, we describe derivation of hESC lines, NOTT1 and NOTT2, from human blastocysts graded as 3BC and 3CB, respectively. Both lines were successfully maintained as colonies by mechanical passaging on mouse embryonic feeder cells or as monolayers by trypsin-passaging in feeder-free conditions on Matrigel. Undifferentiated cells retained expression of pluripotency markers (OCT4, NANOG, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60 and TRA-1-81), a stable karyotype during long-term culture and could be transfected efficiently with plasmid DNA and short interfering RNA. Differentiation via formation of embryoid bodies resulted in expression of genes associated with early germ layers and terminal lineage specification. The electrophysiology of spontaneously beating NOTTI-derived cardiomyocytes was recorded and these cells were shown to be pharmacologically responsive. Histological examination of teratomas formed by in vivo differentiation of both lines in severe immunocompromised mice showed complex structures including cartilage or smooth muscle (mesoderm), luminal epithelium (endoderm) and neuroectoderm (ectoderm). These observations show that NOTT1 and NOTT2 display the accepted characteristics of hESC pluripotency.
4295571| Primary airway epithelial cell cultures can provide a faithful representation of the in vivo airway while allowing for a controlled nutrient source and isolation from other tissues or immune cells. The methods used have significant differences based on tissue source, cell isolation, culture conditions, and assessment of culture purity. We modified and optimized a method for generating tracheal epithelial cultures from Syrian golden hamsters and characterized the cultures for cell composition and function. Soon after initial plating, the epithelial cells reached a high transepithelial resistance and formed tight junctions. The cells differentiated into a heterogeneous, multicellular culture containing ciliated, secretory, and basal cells after culture at an air-liquid interface (ALI). The secretory cell populations initially consisted of MUC5AC-positive goblet cells and MUC5AC/CCSP double-positive cells, but the makeup changed to predominantly Clara cell secretory protein (CCSP)-positive Clara cells after 14 d. The ciliated cell populations differentiated rapidly after ALI, as judged by the appearance of  tubulin IV-positive cells. The cultures produced mucus, CCSP, and trypsin-like proteases and were capable of wound repair as judged by increased expression of matrilysin. Our method provides an efficient, high-yield protocol for producing differentiated hamster tracheal epithelial cells that can be used for a variety of in vitro studies including tracheal cell differentiation, airway disease mechanisms, and pathogen-host interactions. 
4295273|Peroxidation products of polyunsaturated fatty acids may cause growth inhibition of cells in culture. This study was carried out to elucidate to what extent peroxidation products may be found in growth media, with and without cells and albumin, using thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and protein carbonyl groups as measures of peroxidation. The growth of human microvascular endothelial cells was studied as influenced by docosahexaenoic (C22:6, n - 3), arachidonic acid (C20:4, n - 6), and serum albumin. Cell growth was strongly inhibited by the fatty acids, and the inhibition was related to the concentration of TBARS in the medium. Defatted albumin (0.5 g/100 ml) nullified the increase of TBARS in the medium and released the growth inhibition by the fatty acids. With polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) there was a time- and concentration-dependent increase in media TBARS, observed both with and without cells, but the TBARS increase was somewhat greater in the presence of cells. Surprisingly, TBARS in cell-free media also increased somewhat upon increasing the albumin concentration from 0.5 to 5 g/100 ml, and the TBARS increase differed among various preparations of albumin. Unexpectedly, the albumin that had not been defatted gave the lowest TBARS values. The amount of protein carbonyl groups did not differ among various albumin preparations. It is concluded that PUFA may autooxidize in media used for cell cultures, and thereby cause an unspecific growth inhibition, which can be prevented by a low albumin concentration. However, even defatted albumin preparations may contain lipid peroxidation products, the causes and implications of which remain to be elucidated.
4294645| Late gestation fetal rat hepatocytes can proliferate under defined in vitro conditions in the absence of added mitogens. However, this capacity declines with advancing gestational age of the fetus from which the hepatocytes are derived. The present studies were undertaken to investigate this change in fetal hepatocyte growth regulation. Examination of E19 fetal hepatocyte primary cultures using immunocytochemistry for 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation showed that approximately 80% of these cells traverse S-phase of the cell cycle over the first 48 h in culture. Similarly, 65% of E19 hepatocytes maintained in culture under defined mitogen-free conditions for 24 h showed nuclear expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). These in vitro findings correlated with a high level of immunoreactive PCNA in immunofluorescent analyses of E19 liver. In contrast, E21 (term) liver showed little immunoreactive PCNA. The in vivo finding was recapitulated by in vitro studies showing that E21 hepatocytes had low levels of BrdU incorporation during the first day in culture and were PCNA negative shortly after isolation. However, within 12 h of plating, E21 hepatocytes showed cytoplasmic staining for PCNA. Although maintained under mitogen-free conditions, PCNA expression progressed synchronously to a nucleolar staining pattern at 24 to 48 h in culture followed by intense, diffuse nuclear staining at 60 h which disappeared by 72 h. This apparently synchronous cell cycle progression was confirmed by studies showing peak BrdU incorporation on the third day in culture. Whereas DNA synthesis by both E19 and E21 hepatocytes was potentiated by transforming growth factor  (TGF), considerable mitogen-independent DNA synthesis was seen in hepatocytes from both gestational ages. These results may indicate that fetal hepatocytes come under the influence of an exogenous, in vivo growth inhibitory factor as term approaches and that this effect is relieved when term fetal hepatocytes are cultured. 
4294731|With a view to initiating clinical trials, cell morphology and function for a newly developed artificial liver support system employing highly functional human liver cell line, FLC-7, cultured in a radial flow bioreactor were compared to cells grown in a conventional monolayer culture. The radial flow bioreactor consists of a vertically extended cylindrical matrix comprised of porous glass bead microcarriers through which liquid medium flows from the periphery in toward the central axis generating a beneficial concentration gradient of oxygen and nutrients, while preventing excessive shear stresses or buildup of waste products. The three-dimensional culture system supports high-density (
4294478|Human glioma-derived cell cultures and lines have proven to be of significant value in the study of the basic properties that contribute to the highly malignant, invasive and angiogenic phenotype of glioblastoma multiforme tumors. It is frequently difficult to establish lines that retain glial tumor properties in long term culture. The SNB-19 cell line has maintained and exhibited properties of transformation, differentiation, autocrine growth response, and tumorigenesis while remaining in culture for over 13 yr and undergoing over 200 passages. This human line has been utilized in a wide range of studies related to the basic properties of human glioblastoma multiforme. In this report, we summarize the immunologic, biochemical, and cytogenetic properties of this versatile cell line and its utility for additional mechanistic investigation into the pathophysiology of the progression of human malignant gliomas.
4294225|Pterygium is a degenerative corneal limbal process and UV irradiation has been suggested as being a major environmental predisposing factor. The invasive nature of the fibroblasts associated with pterygia raises the question as to whether these cells are transformed. To test this hypothesis, we established fibroblast strains from autologous and heterologous pterygial and conjunctival specimens, respectively, from subjects between 40 to 50 yr of age, and compared their growth characteristics in culture. All pterygial fibroblast strains exhibited a reduced dependence on serum and exogenous growth factors for growth and reached a saturation population density that was threefold higher than conjunctival fibroblasts cultured under the same conditions. In addition, all pterygial fibroblast strains were able to form colonies in soft agar in 5% fetal bovine serum at a 6.0 to 7.5% efficiency. Under the same experimental conditions, none of the conjunctival fibroblast strains were able to grow. The results presented support the conclusion that pterygial fibroblasts have acquired many of the properties of the transformed phenotype.
40205904|One of the major risks in cell culture laboratories is the misidentification and cross-contamination of cell lines. Several methods have been used to authenticate cell lines, including isoenzyme profiling, the test suggested by European Farmacopeia, which is performed at the Tissue Culture Centre in Brescia. However, this method displays several disadvantages, such as high variability and low reproducibility, and it is time consuming and requires high cell concentrations to be performed. Therefore, an alternative method has been developed to confirm the specie of origin of 27 different animal cell cultures. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assay was optimized, based on the use of a pair of primers that anneal to a portion of the cytochrome b gene in all the species. The amplification product was digested with a panel of six restriction enzymes, and the pattern derived was resolved on 3% high-resolution agarose gel. For 23 species, this protocol produced a unique restriction pattern, and the origin of these animal cells resulted to be confirmed by this analysis. Furthermore, results indicate that cytochrome b PCR-RFLP was able to amplify target sequences using very low amounts of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). Its sensitivity in detecting interspecies, cross-contamination was comparable to that of isoenzyme analysis (contaminating DNA should represent at least 10% of the total DNA). For 4 of the 27 species (sheep, dog, Guinea pig, and Rhesus monkey) the observed pattern, even if highly reproducible, showed additional bands; for these species, specific PCR was also performed.
4294387|Different models of isolated cardiomyocytes are generally used for biochemical, biophysical, and pharmacological studies. Fetal cardiomyocytes can be easily cultured for several weeks regaining their ability for rhythmical and synchronous contractions. For investigations, differentiated myocytes derived from adult hearts are closer to the in situ situation. Unfortunately, these cells at best exhibit irregular and asynchronous contractions at very low frequencies. Already 1 d after seeding calcium-tolerant rod-shaped adult cardiomyocytes on a suitable substrate, the differentiated cells begin to dedifferentiate forming a confluent monolayer. After 7-10 d their beating activities are like those of fetal cells. Therefore, we tried to combine the advantages of both cell types to achieve fully differentiated cardiomyocytes, rod-shaped and rhythmically beating, isolated from adult hearts. Using contractile fetal cells as a substrate for the adult cardiomyocytes, freshly seeded differentiated adult myocytes are paced by the contraction frequency of the fetal monolayer. As a consequence, the rod-shaped adult cardiomyocytes reach frequencies of more than 140 cycles/min without external electrical stimulation. This model enables us to study cardiomyocytes in a state very similar to the in situ situation with respect to morphology, integrity, and contractile behavior.
4295012| Conditions for the primary culture of branching scleractinian coral (Acropora micropthalma and Pocillopora damicornis) cells were established with a calcium-free seawater cell dissociation method. Cells were isolated and cultured in supplemented Dulbecco's modified Eagle media with heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum, antibiotics, and sterile seawater. Among the isolated cell types, large (60-100 m) multicellular endothelial isolates (MEIs) were seen in high numbers. These isolates were observed to continually spin for up to 300 h without media change. The following parameters were optimized: media, serum, light, trace elements, and growth factor supplements. Rotations per minute were calculated to determine MEI motility in relation to size. Finally, analyses of external and internal structures were conducted with scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and fluorescence microscopy. Additional coral species, Montipora digitata, Stylophora pistillata, Seriatopora hystrix and Porites sp. were also cultured to determine the applicability of isolation techniques. The relatively long survival time of MEIs in primary culture makes them ideal candidates for in vitro studies examining coral disease processes (e.g., mode of infection and intracellular effects of disease-causing agents) as well as aspects of general coral growth and health (e.g., trace element requirements and transfer of products between host cell and zooxanthellae). 
4295310|Mycoplasma contamination of cell lines is one of the major problems in cell culturing. About 15-35% of all cell lines are infected with a limited number of mycoplasma species of predominantly human, swine, or bovine origin. We examined the mycoplasma contamination status in 495 cell cultures by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, microbiological culture method, and deoxyribonucleic acid-ribonucleic acid (DNA-RNA) hybridization, and in 103 cell cultures by PCR and DNA-RNA hybridization, in order to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the PCR assay in routine cell culture. For those two cohorts, results for the three or two assays were concordant in 92 and 91% of the cases, respectively. The sensitivity (detection of true positives) of this PCR detection assay was 86%, and the specificity (detection of true negatives) was 93%, with positive and negative predictive values (probability of correct results) of 73 and 97%, respectively. PCR defined the mycoplasma status with 92% accuracy (detection of true positives and true negatives). The mycoplasma contaminants were speciated by analyzing the PCR amplification fragment using several restriction enzymes. Most of the cultures (47%) were infected with Mycoplasma fermentans, followed by M. hyorhinis (19%), M. orale (10%), M. arginini (9%), Acholeplasma laidlawii (6%), and M. hominis (3%). To sum up, PCR represents a sensitive, specific, accurate, inexpensive, and quick mycoplasma detection assay that is suitable for the routine screening of cell cultures.
4294080|Primary diethylstilbestrol-induced kidney tumors from Syrian hamsters were grown in vitro and maintained in culture for 6 mo. Combined immunohistochemical studies using antibodies to intermediate filaments and ultrastructural studies of tumor cells in culture exhibited characteristics similar to tumor cells in vivo. Furthermore, the cells manifested transformed properties in culture; they grew both as multilayered colonies attached to the tissue culture substrate and as floating multicellular colonies (spheroids). When cultured cells were injected into diethylstilbestrol-treated recipient hamsters, tumors developed at the injection sites. In contrast, renal tubules or whole kidney cortex from control hamsters cultured in the same medium underwent only short-term growth, with senescence developing after approximately 1 mo. However, cell cultures of kidney cortex from animals treated in vivo for 5 mo. with diethylstilbestrol formed a cell line. This diethylstilbestrol-induced cell line has been maintained in culture for 1.5 yr and has the following characteristics: a) it is anchorage-dependent, b) it is negative in in vivo tumorigenicity tests, and c) cultured cells are histochemically and ultrastructurally similar to cultured tumor cells. This culture system should prove to be of use in studying hormonal carcinogenesis in vitro.
4294388|We have demonstrated that a human endometrial cell line, HEC-1, maintains a high transepithelial electrical resistance, directionally transports fluids across the cell monolayer, and releases enveloped viruses at distinct plasma membrane domains: influenza virus is released at the apical surfaces and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) at the basolateral surfaces. In addition, we have examined the expression of domain-specific endogenous proteins, including the polyimmunoglobulin receptor. Multiple endogenous polypeptides were found to be secreted into the culture medium at basolateral surfaces, whereas no secretion of specific polypeptides was observed from apical cell surfaces. Distinct patterns of endogenous proteins were also observed on apical and basolateral cell surfaces, with a much more complex polypeptide pattern on the basolateral membranes. Using surface biotinylation and immunofluorescence, the polyimmunoglobulin receptor was found to be expressed on the basolateral surfaces of HEC-1 monolayers. The specific binding of poly-immunoglobulin A (pIgA) was found to occur on the basolateral surface, and was followed by transcytosis to the apical surface and release into the apical medium. The observed characteristics indicate that the endometrium-derived HEC-1 epithelial cell line can be employed as a model for studies of protein transport in polarized epithelial cells of human endometrial tissues, as well as for studies of the interaction of microorganisms with epithelial cells in the genital tract.
4294130|The erythroid-potentiating effects of a protein fraction produced by 20-day rat fetal liver-adhering cells are studied. Partial purification by gel filtration gave an active fraction (apparent molecular weight =
4294702|Retroviral vectors can be used to insert a single, intact copy of a transgene into a chromosome. If the duplication of the LTR (long-terminal repeat) that naturally occurs during reverse transcription of the retroviral genome is exploited to introduce two equally oriented FLP recognition target (FRT) sites, a substrate for FLP recombinase is created. A pulse of FLP recombinase activity can then be applied to excise the intervening sequences with the retention of a single LTR. This procedure is of potential use for manipulating an integration site after a period of expression enabling a variety of critical controls. We describe the properties of such a retroviral vector containing a dicistronic expression cassette with a reporter gene in the first and a positive/negative selection marker in the second cistron. This vector permits the selection and control of each step during the sequence of genomic manipulations enabled by site-specific recombination events.
40205873|A number of epithelial lineages have been derived from mouse embryonic stem cells during the past decades, but the long lasting culture has never been reported. In this paper, we report when mouse embryonic stem cells were dispersed into small clumps containing approximately 50 to 100 cells and grown on mitotically inactivated mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers for up to 10 d to form epithelial-like colonies. Through subsequent cultivation without mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers, a serially subcultured keratinocyte-like cell lineage was established under these conditions. Pan cytokeratin, cytokeratin 14, and cytokeratin 18 were observed in these proliferating cells using immunocytochemistry and flow cytometry. E-cadherin, Involucrin, and keratin mRNAs were determined by a semi-quantitative and a quantitative real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). These results confirmed the establishment of a keratinocyte-like cell lineage derived from mouse embryonic stem cells. In this paper also, we describe a method by which mouse embryonic stem cells can be differentiated into cells with some characteristics of epidermal keratinocytes and kept these cells in long-term culture. Potential applications of this method are the in vitro differentiation of cells of interest from embryonic stem (ES) cells of mice during embryonic development and the production of genetically modified epidermal keratinocytes that could be used as temporary wound dressing or as carriers of genes of interest in gene therapeutic treatments or better understanding the mechanisms for epithelial differentiation of embryonic stem cells.
20172275| While lectins are known to influence the cell growth of several types of normal and neoplastic tissues, their roles in the case of prostatic cancer cells remain relatively unexplored. In the present work, we report the in vitro influence of five lectins, namely peanut (PNA), wheat germ (WGA), Concanavalin A (Con A), Griffonia simplicifolia (GSA-IA), and Phaseolus vulgaris (PHA-L) agglutinins, on the cell proliferation of one androgen-sensitive (LNCaP) and two androgen-insensitive (PC-3 and DU 145) human prostatic cancer cell lines cultured in either 10% or 1% fetal bovine serum (FBS)-supplemented media. The cell proliferation was assessed by means of the colorimetric 3-(4,5-dimethythiazol-2-yle)2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide. (MTT) assay. Four lectin concentrations were tested (i.e., 0.1, 1, 10, and 100 g/ml) at five experimental states (i.e., 2, 3, 5, 7, and 9 d following the addition of each lectin to the culture media). Our results demonstrated that the five lectins under study had a globally significant dose-dependent toxic effect on prostatic cancer cell proliferation. Nevertheless, low doses of GSA-IA and PHA-L significantly (P &lt; 0.05 to P &lt; 0.001) increased the cell proliferation of confluent PC-3 cells. Increasing the FBS from 1% to 10% in the culture media significantly antagonized lectin-induced toxicity in the three prostatic cell lines. In conclusion, the present data strongly suggest that some lectins might influence the proliferation of prostatic carcinoma cells. In addition, because lectins are present in our diet, and are able to pass into the systemic circulation and thus reach the prostate, the present results suggest that some lectins might exert an influence on prostate cancer growth under clinical conditions. 
4294208|The aim of the present paper was to obtain somatotroph- and gonadotroph-enriched populations from collagenase dispersed pituitaries of male rainbow trout. Inasmuch as the percentage of immunoreactive gonadotrophs and somatotrophs present in pituitaries was higher at spermiation than at the beginning of spermatogenesis, we tried such a cell separation with fish at this stage of spermatogenesis. Cells were fractionated using their differences in buoyant density with centrifugation in Percoll solutions. The use of Percoll linear gradients (1.110 to 1.027 g/ml) showed that somatotroph cells have a density of between 1.102 and 1.064 g/ml whereas gonadotrophs are spread over the range of the gradient. It was thus possible, by using linear or discontinuous Percoll gradients, to obtain 95 to 67% (mean 80%) enriched somatotropic cell fractions while no enriched gonadotropic cell fractions were collected. The fractionated cells kept their ability to be cultured and to be responsive to specific secretagogues. Somatostatine induced a 80 to 85% decrease in growth hormone release per somatotroph in the initial cell suspension as well as in the different cell fractions. On the other hand, the basal growth hormone release per cell was lower in the fractions containing cells with a density lower than 1.062 g/ml. Inversely, the gonadotrophs have a basal release per cell independent of their density, and this is also available for their responsiveness to salmon gonadotropin-releasing hormone.
4295505|To understand further the effects of spaceflight on osteoblast-enriched cultures, normal chicken calvarial osteoblasts were flown aboard shuttle flight STS-77, and the total number of attached cells was determined. Spaceflight and control cultures were chemically fixed 3 h and 3 d after launch. These fixed cultures were processed for scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The SEM analysis showed that with just 3 d of exposure to spaceflight, coverslip cultures contained
20869576|The gills contain essential cells for respiration and osmoregulation, whereas the hepatopancreas is the site of digestion, absorption, and nutrients storage. The aim of this work was to separate and characterize gill and hepatopancreatic cells of the mangrove crab, Ucides cordatus. For gills, the methodology consisted of an enzymatic cellular dissociation using Trypsin at 0.5%, observation of cellular viability with Tripan Blue, and separation of cells using discontinuous sucrose gradient at concentrations of 10%, 20%, 30%, and 40%. The hepatopancreatic cells were dissociated by magnetic stirring, with posterior separation by sucrose gradient at the same concentrations above. For gills, a high cellular viability was observed (92.52.1%), with hemocyte cells in 10% sucrose layer (57.990.17%, *P<0.05), principal cells in the 20% sucrose layer (57.330.18, *P<0.05), and thick cells and pillar cells in the 30% and 40% sucrose layers, respectively (39.540.05%, *P<0.05; and 41.810.04%, *P<0.05). The hepatopancreatic cells also showed good viability (79.220.02%), with the observation of embryonic (E) cells in the 10% sucrose layer (67.870.06%, **P<0.001), resorptive (R) and fibrillar (F) cells in the 20% and 30% sucrose layers (44.710.06%, **P<0.001, and 43.250.01%, *P<0.05; respectively), and blister (B) cells in the 40% sucrose layer (63.090.03%, **P<0.001). The results are a starting point for in vitro studies of heavy metal transport in isolated cells of the mangrove crab U. cordatus, subjected to contamination by metals in the mangrove habitat where they are found.
40802393|Prostate stromal cells may play binary roles in the process of prostate cancer development. As the first to be encountered by infiltrating prostate cancer cells, prostate stromal cells form the first defense line against prostate cancer progression and metastasis. However, interaction between prostate cancer and stromal cells may facilitate the formation of a tumor microenvironment favoring cancer cell growth and survival. To establish an experimental system for studying the interaction between cancer and stromal cells, we isolated three matched pairs of normal and cancer-associated human prostate stromal clones. In this report, we describe the morphologic and behavioral characteristics of these cells and their effect on LNCaP prostate cancer cells in co-culture. Unlike LNCaP prostate cancer cells, the isolated prostate stromal clones are large fibroblast-like cells with a slow proliferation rate. Growth and survival of these clones are not affected by androgens. The stromal cells display high resistance to serum starvation, while cancer-associated stromal clones have differentiated survival ability. In co-culture experiments, the stromal cells protected some LNCaP prostate cancer cells from death by serum starvation, and cancer-associated stromal clones showed more protection. This work thus established a panel of valuable human prostate stromal cell lines, which could be used in co-culture to study the interaction between prostate cancer and prostate stromal cells.
20869594|Establishment of cell lines representative of honeybee character would greatly assist in their analysis. Here, we show that immortalized cell line, designated as MYN9, has been generated from honeybee embryo by the gene transfer of human c-myc proto-oncogene. The morphology of the cell is characteristic of embryonic stem cell, although the cell is stable and does not spontaneously differentiate. Polymerase chain reaction analyses show that the cell is originated from authentic honeybee cell. It is proposed that the integration of human c-myc gene into honeybee precursor populations results in the establishment of stable cell line suitable for cellular and molecular studies.
4294493|The proliferative response of Mv1Lu cells to purified
4295253| ECV304 cells reported as originating from human umbilical vein endothelial cells by spontaneous transformation have been used as a model cell line for endothelia over the last decade. Recently, deoxyribonucleic acid fingerprinting revealed an identical genotype for ECV304 and T24 cells (urinary bladder carcinoma cell line). In order to resolve the apparent discrepancy between the identical genotype and the fact that ECV304 cells phenotypically show important endothelial characteristics, a comparative study was performed. Immortalized porcine brain microvascular endothelial cells/C1-2, and Madin Darby canine kidney cells were included as typical endothelial and epithelial cells, respectively. Various methods, such as confocal laser scanning microscopy, Western blot, and protein activity tests, were used to study the cell lines. ECV304 and T24 cells differ in criteria, such as growth behavior, cytoarchitecture, tight junction arrangement, transmembrane electrical resistance, and activity of -glutamyltransferase. Several endothelial markers (von Willebrand factor, uptake of low-density lipoprotein, vimentin) could clearly be identified in ECV304, but not in T24 cells. Desmoglein and cytokeratin, both known as epithelial markers, were found in ECV304 as well as in T24 cells. However, differences were found for the two cell lines with respect to the type of cytokeratin: in ECV304 cells mainly cytokeratin 18 (45 kDa) is found, whereas in T24 cells cytokeratin 8 (52 kDa) is predominant. As we could demonstrate, the ECV304 cell line exposes many endothelial features which, in view of the scarcity of suitable endothelial cell lines, still make it an attractive in vitro model for endothelia. 
40205831|Hyperglycemia-induced protein glycation is thought to be implicated in the diabetic vasculopathy. In this study, we cultured vascular endothelial cells on native or glycated collagen matrix and compared their growth and functional characteristics. At lower plating density, the cells grew equally well on both substrata; however, at higher planting density, the cells plated on glycated collagen grew slower and reached a lower confluent density compared to that of the native collagen-based cultures. Confluent cell layers formed on glycated collagen exhibited a lower diffusion barrier function and a less response to epidermal growth factor stimulated prostacyclin production, compared to their native collagen-cultured counterparts.
4295197| The concept of microgravity (free-fall) influencing cellular functions in nonadherent cells has not been a part of mainstream scientific thought. Utilizing rotating wall vessels (RWVs) to generate simulated microgravity conditions, we found that respiratory burst activity was significantly altered in nonadherent promyelocytic (HL-60) cells. Specifically, HL-60 cells in simulated microgravity for 6, 19, 42, 47, and 49 d had 3.8-fold fewer cells that were able to participate in respiratory burst activity than cells from 1 x g cultures (P = 0.0011, N = 5). The quantity of respiratory burst products from the cells in simulated microgravity was also significantly reduced. The fold increase over controls in mean fluorescence intensities for oxidative products from cells in microgravity was 1.1  0.1 versus 1.8  0.3 for cells at 1 x g (P = 0.013, N = 4). Furthermore, the kinetic response for phorbol ester-stimulated burst activity was affected by simulated microgravity. These results demonstrate that simulated microgravity alters an innate cellular function (burst activity). If respiratory burst activity is impaired by true microgravity, then recovery from infections during spaceflight could be delayed. Finally, RWVs provide an excellent model for investigating the mechanisms associated with microgravity-induced changes in nonadherent cells. 
4294474|Six rodent cell lines (36B10 rat glioma cells, 9L rat gliosarcoma cells, V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts, EMT6/ UW and EMT6/Ro mouse mammary sarcoma cells, and RIF-1 mouse fibrosarcoma cells) were tested for growth in cylindrical threads of Matrigel. These cells grew in the threads with doubling times of 17-23 h, reaching maximum cell densities on the order of
4294356|The intact human reabsorptive sweat duct (RD) has been a reliable model for investigations of the functional role of "endogenous" CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) in normal and abnormal electrolyte absorptive function. But to overcome the limitations imposed by the use of fresh, intact tissue, we transformed cultured RD cells using the chimeric virus Ad5/SV40 1613 ori-. The resultant cell line, RD2(NL), has remained differentiated forming a polarized epithelium that expressed two fundamental components of absorption, a cAMP activated Cl
4294328|It has been reported that endothelial cells suspended in three-dimensional type I collagen gels can be induced to undergo tube formation by 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (TPA). In this report, we show that TPA-induced endothelial cell tube formation can be further enhanced by the addition of other matrix components in the collagen gels. In the presence of TPA, both high molecular weight hyaluronate and chondroitin sulfate elicit a dose-dependent stimulation of tube formation. The enhanced tube formation appears to be due to an increase in the number of cells undergoing morphogenesis as the average length per tube is not obviously increased. Concomitant with the increased cell morphogenesis, there is an increase in proteolytic activity secreted by the cells. Treatment of cells with cycloheximide suppresses hyaluronate- and chondroitin sulfate-enhanced cell morphogenesis and proteolytic activity suggesting that new protein synthesis, perhaps proteases, is necessary for endothelial cell morphogenesis. The possible role of the production of proteolytic activity in endothelial cell tube formation is discussed.
4294592| The relationship between the energy source used by HT-29 cells and their state of differentiation was determined. Short chain fatty acids and acetoacetate were applied to the cells for 9 d, after which the medium was replaced with conventional culture medium for a further 9 d so that the permanence of the changes could be assessed (18 d). Glucose utilization and lactic acid, acetoacetate, and -hydroxybutyrate production by the cells were determined. Differentiation was assessed by the presence of the enzymes sucrase-isomaltase and carbonic anhydrase 1, as well as morphological changes of the cells. By tracing carbon from acetate, propionate, and butyrate through the cells, it was found that the carbon from the short-chain fatty acids was fluxed into acetoacetate. Significant amounts of acetoacetate were released by the propionate-treated culture after 9 d and the acetate-, propionate-, valerate-, and caproate-treated cultures after 18 d. A significant positive correlation was found between acetoacetate synthesis and differentiation. Acetoacetate applied to HT-29 cells also induced their differentiation. The acetate-, butyrate-, valerate-, isovalerate-, and caproate-treated cells underwent terminal differentiation, while the propionate- and isocaproate-treated cultures underwent programming events. We, therefore, conclude that HT-29 cells utilize short chain fatty acids in preference to glucose, metabolize these to ketones, thereby raising the energy state and effecting the observed morphological and functional changes in the cells. 
4295231|The West-Indian manatee, Trichechus manatus latirostris, is a herbivorous marine mammal found in the coastal waters of Florida. Because of their endangered status, animal experimentation is not allowed. Therefore, a cell line was developed and characterized from tissue collected during necropsies of the manatees. A primary cell culture was established by isolating single cells from kidney tissue using both enzymatic and mechanical techniques. Primary manatee kidney (MK) cells were subcultured for characterization. These cells were morphologically similar to the cell lines of epithelial origin. An immunocytochemistry assay was used to localize the cytokeratin filaments common to cells of epithelial origin. At second passage, epithelial-like cells had an average population-doubling time of 48 h, had an optimum seeding density of
4295145| Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of gynecological cancer mortality, and 85-90% of this malignancy originates from the ovarian surface epithelium (OSE). The etiology of ovarian epithelial cancer is unknown, but a role for estrogens has been suspected. However, the effect of estrogens on OSE cell proliferation remains to be determined. Using the rabbit model, our studies have demonstrated that 17-estradiol stimulates OSE cell proliferation and the formation of a papillary ovarian surface morphology similar to that seen in human ovarian serous neoplasms of low malignant potential. Immunohistochemical staining of ovarian tissue sections with an antibody to the estrogen receptor a demonstrates its expression in both OSE cells and stromal interstitial cells. In primary ovarian cell cultures, the proliferative response of the epithelial cells to 17-estradiol depends on the expression of the estrogen receptor a in the epithelial cells. However, when the epithelial cells are grown together with ovarian stromal cells, their proliferative response to this hormone is greatly enhanced, suggesting the involvement of stromal-epithelial interactions. These studies suggest a role for estrogens and the estrogen receptor a in OSE growth. 
40602796|The metanephros is formed from the reciprocal inductive interaction of two precursor tissues, the metanephric mesenchyme (MM) and the ureteric bud (UB). The UB induces MM to condense and differentiate forming the glomerulus and renal tubules, whilst the MM induces the UB to differentiate into the collecting tubules of the mature nephron. Uninduced MM is considered the progenitor cell population of the developing metanephros because of its potential to differentiate into more renal cell types than the UB. Previous studies have identified the phenotype of renal precursor cells; however, expression of candidate marker genes have not been analysed in other tissues of the murine embryo. We have assayed up to 19 candidate genes in eight embryonic tissues at five gestation stages of the mouse embryo to identify markers definitively expressed by renal cells during metanephric induction and markers developmentally regulated during kidney maturation. We then analysed their expression in other developing tissues. Results show Den, Hoxc9, Mest, Wtl and Ywhaq were expressed at moderate to high levels during the window of metanephric specification and early differentiation (E10.5-E12.5 dpc), and Hoxc9, Ren1 and Wt1 expression was characteristic of mature renal cells. We demonstrated Cd24a, Cdh11, Mest, Scd2 and Sim2 were regulated during brain development, and Scd2, Cd24a and Sipl expression was enriched in developing liver. These markers may be useful negative markers of kidney development. Use of a combination of highly expressed and negative markers may aid in the identification and removal of non-renal cells from heterogeneous populations of differentiating stem cells.
4295408| Availability of the complete sequence of the human genome and sequence homology analysis has accelerated new protein discovery and clues to protein function. Protein-protein interaction cloning suggests multisubunit complexes and pathways. Here, we combine these molecular approaches with cultured cell colocalization analysis to suggest a novel complex and a pathway that integrate the mitochondrial location and the microtubular cytoskeleton with chromosome remodeling, apoptosis, and tumor suppression based on a novel leucine-rich pentatricopeptide repeat-motif-containing protein (LRPPRC) that copurified with the fibroblast growth factor receptor complex. One round of interaction cloning and sequence homology analysis defined a primary LRPPRC complex with novel subunits cat eye syndrome chromosome region candidate 2 (CECR2), ubiquitously expressed transcript (UXT), and chromosome 19 open reading frames 5 (C19ORF5) but still of unknown function. Immuno, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), and green fluorescent protein (GFP) tag colocalization analyses revealed that LRPPRC appears in both cytosol and nuclei of cultured cells, colocalizes with mitochondria and -tubulin rather than with -actin in the cytosol of interphase cells, and exhibits phase-dependent organization around separating chromosomes in mitotic cells. GFP-tagged CECR2B was strictly nuclear and colocalized with condensed DNA in apoptotic cells. GFP-tagged UXT and GFP-tagged C19ORF5 appeared in both cytosol and nuclei and colocalized with LRPPRC and -tubulin. Cells exhibiting nuclear C19ORF5 were apoptotic. Screening for interactive substrates with the primary LRPPRC substrates in the human liver complementary DNA library revealed that CECR2B interacted with chromatin-associated TFIID-associated protein TAFII30 and ribonucleic acid splicing factor SRP40, UXT bridged to CBP/p300-binding factor CITED2 and kinetochore-associated factor BUB3, and C19ORF5 complexed with mitochondria-associated NADH dehydrogenase I and cytochrome c oxidase I. C19ORF5 also interacted with RASSF1, providing a bridge to apoptosis and tumor suppression. 
4294755|The effect of low concentrations of hydrogen peroxide (H
40205937|The transcription factor Pax2 is essential for kidney development in mice, and overexpression of Pax2 in chick embryos leads to ectopic formation of nephric structures. We have generated embryonic stem (ES) cell lines that repress Pax2 expression in a tetracyclinedependent manner. In the absence of tetracycline, embryoid bodies derived from these cell lines expressed Pax2 and subsequently integrin 8 and aquaporin-1 (Aqp1), both of which are possibly involved in kidney development. Considering the slow induction kinetics, our data suggest that Pax2 and additional factors that are induced in embryoid bodies synergistically regulate the two targets. The ES cell lines with inducible Pax2 expression will also be useful for dissecting genetic cascades functioning in a variety of organ development.
4294873|In renal tubular epithelial cells, oxidant injury results in several metabolic alterations including ATP depletion, decreased Na
4295324|The Clara cell is believed to be the progenitor of the peripheral airway epithelium, and it produces the surfactant proteins SP-A and SP-B, in addition to the 10-kDa Clara cell secretory protein (CCSP or CC10). To date, attempts to develop Clara cell lines have been unsuccessful. Most such attempts have involved the in vitro insertion of a transforming viral oncogene. We have reported previously the characterization of a differentiated conditionally immortalized murine lung Type II epithelial cell line, T7, from the
4295436|The lack of commercially available primary murine endothelial cells prompted us to isolate and cultivate this cell type. We report here the effect of sex steroids on the in vitro growth of murine aortic endothelial cells. Murine aortic endothelial cells were isolated by a combination of explant outgrowth from aortic rings and enzymatic digestion. The endothelial nature of the cells was verified by uptake of acylated low-density lipoprotein and positive staining for CD-31. Murine aortic endothelial cell growth is stimulated by physiological concentrations of estrogen. Progesterone, when given simultaneously with estrogen, inhibited the stimulatory growth effect of estrogen. Murine aortic endothelial cells grown in vitro continue to express messenger ribonucleic acid for proteins related to endothelial growth. These include vascular endothelial growth factor, its receptors Flt-1 and Flk-1, and the angiogenesis-associated transcription factor, Ets-1.
40205793|Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) can induce proliferation and migration of intestinal epithelial cells and has also been shown to be important in wound healing of inflamed mucosal tissues. HGF is known to be expressed along with interleukin-1 (IL-1) by inflamed mucosal tissues, yet the effect of HGF on IL-1-induced proinflammatory cytokine responses by colonic epithelial cells is unknown. In this report, we have examined the effect of HGF on IL-1-induced secretion of IL-8 by the Caco-2 colonic epithelial cell line. HGF stimulation alone had no effect on the secretion of IL-8 by the Caco-2 cells. However, culture of the cells with HGF and suboptimal levels of IL-1 resulted in a significant enhancement of IL-8 secretion compared to cells cultured with IL-1 alone. A similar effect was seen with HGF and IL-1 simulation of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 secretion by the rat IEC-6 intestinal epithelial cell line. The enhancing effect of HGF was seen regardless of whether the culture medium contained serum or not. Simultaneous stimulation with HGF and IL-1 was required for the enhancing effect as cells pretreated with HGF for 24 h and then stimulated with IL-1 alone secreted IL-8 levels similar to that of cells stimulated with IL-1 alone. These results suggest that in addition to wound healing, HGF may play a role in the IL-1-induced chemokine response of epithelial cells in inflamed mucosal tissues.
4294313|During metamorphic adult development, neurons and glial cells in the developing olfactory (antennal) lobes of the moth undergo characteristic and extensive changes in shape. These changes depend on an interplay among these two cell types and ingrowing sensory axons. All of the direct cellular interactions occur against a background of changing steroid hormone titers. Antennal-lobe (AL) neurons dissociated from stage-5 (of 18 stages) metamorphosing animals survive at least 3 wk in primary cell culture. We describe here the morphological influences on AL neurons of (1) exposure to the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone, (2) exposure to sensory axons, and (3) interactions among the AL neurons. Cultured AL neurons respond only weakly, if at all, to 20-hydroxyecdysone. They do, however, show greater total outgrowth and branching when they had been exposed in vivo to sensory axons. Because there is no direct contact between some of the neuronal types and the sensory axons at the time of dissociation, the increase in outgrowth must have been mediated via a diffusible factor(s). When AL cells (neurons and glia) are plated at high density in low volumes of medium, or when the cells are plated at low density but in the presence of medium conditioned by high-density cultures, neurite outgrowth and cell survival are increased. Nerve growth factor (NGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), fibroblast growth factor-basic (bFGF), transforming growth
41408870|Galectin-1 from American bullfrog, RCG1, was isolated to high purity, and its growth inhibitory properties against human cells were examined. The results demonstrated that highly purified RCG1 induced large cell aggregates and revealed cell-type-specific growth inhibition. It significantly inhibited all human leukemia cell lines tested such as IIL-60, U937, and K562 cells but did not inhibit human colon cancer cell line, Colo 201, or mouse mammary tumor cell line FM3A cells. Although most of the galectin-induced growth inhibitions are known to be apoptic, RCG1 induced growth arrest and neither apoptosis nor necrosis. RCG1-mediated growth inhibition was specifically suppressed by the corresponding sugar, lactose, but not by sucrose or even the structurally similar sugar, melibiose. Several studies have reported that galectin-mediated biological functions were modulated by charge modification. Since the high purity of RCG1 was demonstrated but a moderate degree of growth inhibition occurred, it is possible protein charge modification was examined by isoelectric focusing, and it was found to be highly heterogeneous in charge. RCG1 binding proteins in human cells were analyzed by lectin blotting using biotinylated RCG1, and lectin blotting revealed that in human cell extracts the specific proteins at molecular weight 37 and 50 kDa possessed the responsive features of RCG1 binding and lactose competition.
4294639| RAPD-PCR with a tenmar single primer for discrimination of insect cell lines was devised. The base sequence of the primers used were TTCGAGCCAG, CCGCATCTAC, GAACGGACTC, and TGAGTGGGTG (GC contents were 60%). Genome DNA was extracted by modified Landry et al. (1993) method. The reaction mixture consisted of 10 l buffer, 8 l dNTP mixture (2.5 mM each), 4 l primer (50 M), Taq DNA polymerase (2.5 units), 1 l template DNA; and the reaction was run at 94 C for 2 min (denaturation), followed by 31 cycles of 94 C for 1 min, 42 C for 1 min (annealing), and 72 C for 2 min (extension) and terminated with 72#00B0; C for 7 min. By developing the reaction products with agarose gel electrophoresis, it became evident that DNA fragments were amplified with all the primers used. Among four primers, the second primer was selected as a suitable primer for distinguishing cell lines. With this method, cell lines derived from different species were clearly distinguished. 
4295240|We tested the applicability of the random amplified polymorphic deoxyribonucleic acid (RAPD) analysis for identification of three marine fish cell lines FG, SPH, and RSBF, and as a possible tool to detect cross-contamination. Sixty commercial 10-mer RAPD primers were tested on the cell lines and on samples collected from individual fish. The results obtained showed that the cell lines could be identified to the correspondent species on the basis of identical patterns produced by 35-48% of the primers tested; the total mean similarity indices for cell lines versus correspondent species of individual fish ranged from 0.825 to 0.851, indicating the existence of genetic variation in these cell lines in relation to the species of their origin. Also, four primers, which gave a monomorphic band pattern within species/line, but different among the species/line, were obtained. These primers can be useful for identification of these cell lines and for characterization of the genetic variation of these cell lines in relation to the species of their origin. This supported the use of RAPD analysis as an effective tool in species identification and cross-contamination test among different cell lines.
4295454| Cell growth in ovarian primary culture of the kuruma shrimp, Marsupenaeus japonicus, was examined under various culture conditions. The best growth of ovarian cells was obtained in a culture system consisting of double strength of Leibovitz-15 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, glucose (1 g/L), proline (0.1 g/L), TC-Yeastolate (1 g/L), and lactalbumin hydrolysate (1 g/L). The cells survived in this medium at 25 C for 45 d. The epithelial-like cells predominated in 10-d-old cultures, covering >80% of the surface area on the bottom of flask. Cells in mitosis were often observed. Cell proliferation was monitored by incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), an analog of thymidine. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-assoeiated cells accounted for 11.5 and 35.0% of cell populations at 2 and 24 h, respectively, after BrdU treatment. Our results provide an improved culture technique for ovarian tissue of the kuruma shrimp. 
4295015|The mouse adipogenic cell line 1246 which possesses both insulin and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) receptors was used to investigate the role of IGF-I and insulin on the proliferation of adipocyte precursors and their differentiation into mature adipocytes. Results indicate that both insulin and IGF-I stimulate the proliferation of the 1246 adipocyte precursors with IGF-I being slightly more potent than insulin. Dose-response studies indicated that both polypeptides acted at physiological concentrations corresponding to binding to their own receptors. In contrast, comparison of insulin and IGF-I capacity to stimulate terminal adipose differentiation indicated that only insulin was active when added at physiological concentrations. IGF-I could not stimulate adipocyte differentiation except at supraphysiological concentrations (100 ng/ml and above) permitting its binding to the insulin receptors on 1246 cells. Time course study of expression of early and late markers of adipose differentiation indicated that the induction of markers such as adipose differentiation-related protein (ADRP), lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and fatty acid binding protein (FAB) took place even in the absence of insulin. However, the level of early and late differentiation markers decreased to a level below the one found in undifferentiated cells when cells had been maintained in the absence of insulin after differentiation had been initiated. These data indicate that although insulin is not necessary for the early onset of the adipose differentiation program, it is stringently required for the maintenance of the adipocyte phenotype and cannot be substituted by IGF-I.
4294590|Endothelial specialization is a prominent feature within distinct capillary beds of organs such as mammalian kidney, yet immunological markers for functionally distinct subpopulations of cultured endothelial cells from tissue sources such as kidney have not been available. We developed a simple and reproducible isolation and culture procedure to recover human renal microvascular endothelial cells (HRMEC) from the cortex of unused donor kidneys. This procedure yields highly purified preparations of cells that display endothelial markers that include Factor VIII antigen, acetyl-LDL receptors, and determinants that bind Ulex europaeus lectin. HRMEC assemble into capillary-like cord and tube structures when plated on the surface of basement membrane-like matrix (BMM) in media containing phorbol myristate acetate. To further define subpopulations of HRMEC, we generated a panel of monoclonal antibodies and screened for those recognizing cell surface determinants. One monoclonal antibody recovered from this screen recognized a cell surface protein expressed on a subpopulation of HRMEC that we have designated PEC-1 (pioneer endothelial cell antigen-1). Cells expressing PEC-1 extended long, interconnecting filopodial processes in response to phorbol myristate acetate and assembled into capillary-like structures when plated on BMM. Anti-PEC-1 immunoprecipitated proteins of 25 and 27 kDa. Magnetic bead separation of PEC-1 (+) cells selected cells that assemble into capillary-like cord and tube structures. The remaining PEC-1 (-) HRMEC population formed matrix adherent patches. In the kidney, the PEC-1 determinant is expressed on a small subpopulation of microvascular glomerular cells and is prominently expressed on the apical membrane of proximal tubule cells. The PEC-1 determinant discriminates among subpopulations of HRMEC, identifying a subpopulation that contributes to assembly of capillary-like structures.
4295515|Human proximal tubule epithelial cell lines are potentially useful models to elucidate the complex cellular and molecular details of water and electrolyte homeostasis in the kidney. Samples of normal adult human kidney tissue were obtained from surgical specimens, and S1 segments of proximal convoluted tubules were microdissected, placed on collagen-coated culture plate inserts, and cocultured with lethally irradiated 3T3 fibroblasts. Primary cultures of proximal tubule epithelial cells were infected with a replication-defective retroviral construct encoding either wild-type or temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 large T-antigen. Cells forming electrically resistive monolayers were selected and expanded in culture. Three cell lines (HPCT-03-ts, HPCT-05-wt, and HPCT-06-wt) were characterized for proximal tubule phenotype by electron microscopy, electrophysiology, immunofluorescence, Southern hybridization, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Each of the three formed polarized, resistive epithelial monolayers with apical microvilli, tight junctional complexes, numerous mitochondria, well-developed Golgi complexes, extensive endoplasmic reticulum, convolutions of the basolateral plasma membrane, and a primary cilium. Each exhibited succinate, phosphate, and Na,K-adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) transport activity, as well as acidic dipeptide- and adenosine triphosphate-regulated mechanisms of ion transport. Transcripts for
4295285|PKH dyes were initially developed by Horan et al. to provide appropriate probes for in vitro and in vivo cell tracking. It has been reported for many cell types that PKH bind irreversibly to the cell membrane without significantly affecting cell growth. Thus, these probes provide an opportunity for long-term cell monitoring and the identification of cells of interest among a heterogeneous cell population. An important feature is that upon cell division, the probe is partitioned equally between each daughter cell, making it possible to quantify cell fluorescence by flow cytometry. In this situation, the flow cytometric study of PKH67 characteristics shows that this probe does not affect the main cell-functions such as viability or proliferation. Moreover, the intracellular distribution of PKH67 is demonstrated by following its kinetics of internalization by confocal microscopy. These results present PKH67 as a probe suitable for dynamic analysis of cell proliferation as well as the study of intracellular localization and membrane recycling mechanisms.
20869538|Ribosomal proteins and ribosomal associated proteins are complicated subjects to target and study because of their high conservation through evolution which led to highly structured and regulated proteins. Tagging of ribosomal proteins may allow following of protein synthesis in vivo and isolating translated mRNAs. HaloTag is a new technology which allows detection in living cells, biochemical purification, and localization studies. In the present work, we tested HaloTag-based ribosomal tagging. We focused on eIF6 (eukaryotic Initiation Factor 6 free 60S ribosomal marker), RACK1 (Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1; 40S and polysomes, not nuclear), and rpS9 (40S ribosomes, both in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm). Experiments performed on HEK293 cells included ribosomal profiles and Western blot on the fractions, purification of HaloTag proteins, and fluorescence with time-lapse microscopy. We show that tagged proteins can be incorporated on ribosomes and followed by time-lapse microscopy. eIF6 properly accumulates in the nucleolus, and it is redistributed upon actinomycin D treatment. RACK1 shows a specific cytoplasmic localization, whereas rpS9 is both nucleolar and cytoplasmic. However, efficiency of purification varies due to steric hindrances. In addition, the level of overexpression and degradation may vary upon different constructs. In summary, HaloTag technology is highly suitable to ribosome tagging, but requires prior characterization for each construct.
4295497| Skeletal muscle is a tissue that adapts to increased use by increasing contractile protein gene expression and ultimately skeletal muscle mass (hypertrophy). To identify hypertrophy-inducing agents that may be potentially useful in the treatment of age-related muscle loss (sarcopenia) and to better understand hypertrophy signal transduction pathways, we have created a skeletal muscle cell-based hypertrophy-responsive system. This system was created by permanently modifying the relatively undifferentiated C2C12 cell line so that it contains the -myosin heavy chain (-MHC) gene promoter and enhancer regions fused to a luciferase reporter gene. This cell line responds, by increasing luciferase expression, to a variety of skeletal muscle hypertrophy-inducing agents, including insulin, insulin-like growth factor I, testosterone, and the -adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol, in both the undifferentiated and differentiated states. This cell-based system should be useful for identifying novel hypertrophy-inducing agents as well as understanding hypertrophy signal transduction. 
4294898|A total of eight cell lines were established from Helicoverpa armigera (3) and H. punctigera (5) embryos and ovaries. Cell lines were established and grown in TC100 and/or TC199-MK containing 10% fetal bovine serum. The serum-free medium ExCell[TRADE MARK SIGN] 400 was also used, with and without 10% supplemental fetal bovine serum, but failed to generate cell lines from fat bodies, embryos, or ovarian tissues. Cell lines consisted of heterogenous cell types ranging from oval to fibroblast-like. This is the first report on the successful establishment of cell lines from H. punctigera. Cell lines from the two species were distinguishable from each other by DAF-PCR, and noticeable differences in minor bands were observed among cell lines from the same species. All of the established cell lines from both species were susceptible to HzSNPV but did not replicate more virus than that of a H. zea cell line (BCIRL-HZ-AM1-A11). However, an H. punctigera cell line (HP1) replicated AcMNPV to the highest titer (
41511613|Induced pluripotent stem cells have been derived from various cell types via the ectopic expression of a cocktail of transcription factors. Previous studies have reported that induced pluripotent stem cells can be differentiated into multiple somatic cells, providing an invaluable resource in regenerative medicine. In this study, we compared the reprogramming efficiency of mouse embryonic fibroblasts, mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells, and mouse bone marrow mononuclear cells by counting the number of alkaline phosphatase staining positive clones on day 15 after induced pluripotent stem cells induction. We found that a very low number of alkaline phosphatasestaining positive clones were derived from mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. We then evaluated the pluripotency of the clones by detecting the expression of embryonic stem cells markers and assessing their ability to form embryoid bodies and teratomas. Mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells population is more homogeneous than mouse bone marrow mononuclear cells, which includes a variety of cell types. Our study indicated that the extremely low efficiency of mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells induction implies that mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells may not be a suitable cell type for the induction of induced pluripotent stem cells unless the efficiency of induction can be improved.
41408869|Quiescin sulfhydryl oxidases (QSOXs) catalyze the formation of disulfide bonds in peptides and proteins, and in vertebrates comprise two proteins: QSOX1 and QSOX2. QSOX1, the most extensively studied type, has been implicated in protein folding, production of extracellular matrix, redox regulation, protection from apoptosis, angiogenesis, and cell differentiation. Atherosclerosis is an immunopathological condition in which redox processes, apoptosis, cell differentiation, and matrix secretion/maturation have critical roles. Considering these data, we hypothesized that QSOX1 could be involved in this disease, possibly reducing apoptosis and angiogenesis inside the plaque. QSOX1 labeling in normal human carotid vessels showed predominant expression by endothelium, subendothelium, and adventitia. In atherosclerotic plaques, however, QSOX1 was highly expressed in macrophages at the lipid core. QSOX1 expression was also studied in terms of mRNA and protein in cell types present in plaques under apoptotic or activating stimuli, emulating conditions found in the atherosclerotic process. QSOX1 mRNA increased in endothelial cells and macrophages after the induction of apoptosis. At the protein level, the correlation between apoptosis and QSOX1 expression was not evident in all cell types, possibly because of a rapid secretion of QSOX1. Our results propose for the first time possible roles for QSOX1 in atherosclerosis, being upregulated in endothelial cells and macrophages by apoptosis and cell activation, and possibly controlling these processes, as well as angiogenesis. The quantitative differences in QSOX1 induction may depend on the cell type and also on local factors.
4294970| The rates of spontaneous cell detachment, cell viability, and apoptosis in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes plated at high and low density were compared. Apoptosis was frequent in detached cells, and the rates of cell detachment and apoptosis were greater in high-density than in low-density cultures. Among attached cells, more cells had condensed or fragmented nuclei in high-density than in low-density cultures. Further, ladder-like DNA fragmentation was not seen in low-cell-density cultures but was clearly evident in high-density cultures. Bax was more highly expressed in cells cultured at high density, and on collagen vs. matrigel, whereas changes of Bcl-2 and Fas expression observed in culture appeared unrelated to the rate of apoptosis. The rate of hepatocyte apoptosis appeared to be identical in low-density cultures on collagen 1 and matrigel, but when cells were cultured at high density, matrigel suppressed apoptosis by more than 50% at 36 h. In hepatocytes cultured on collagen 1, dexamethasone (0.1 M) suppressed apoptosis in both low- and high-density cultures; higher doses had no further effects. In high density cultures, aurintricarboxylic acid (10 M) suppressed apoptosis and this improved cell attachment at 48 h. It is concluded that cell viability in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes grown on collagen I is dependent on optimal culture density and that the cell population is regulated, at least in part, by apoptosis. Corticosteroids suppress spontaneous apoptosis of cultured hepatocytes in a non-dose-dependent manner, whereas matrigel abolishes apoptosis induced by increasing cell density. Bax may be an important protein in the cell density and cell matrix-dependent regulation of apoptosis in cultured hepatocytes. 
4295459| The stimulatory effects of sodium fluoride (NaF) on bone formation have been explained solely by its activation of osteoblasts. However, whether and how NaF acts on the osteoclast lineage is poorly understood. We previously found that NaF differentiates HL-60 cells to granulocytic cells. To further test this action, we have employed here primary cultures of progenitor cells derived from murine bone marrow. NaF at subtoxic concentrations (<0.5 mill) significantly up-regulated activities of several intracellular enzymes (lactate dehydrogenase, -glucuronidase, acid phosphatase), cellular reduction of nitroblue tetrazolium, and nitric oxide (NO) production; which are all accepted as general differentiation markers. NaF (<0.5 mM) also up-regulated granulocyte-specific markers (chloroacetate esterase, cell surface antigens [Mac-1, Gr-1]) but not any of the monocyte-specific markers (nonspecific esterase, cell surface antigens [F4/80, MOMA-2]). Although other general differentiation markers (phagocytosis, adhesion, appearance, nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio) were not appreciably influenced by NaF, essentially in support of our previous data from HL-60 cells, the present findings suggest that NaF induces early differentiation of bone marrow hemopoietic progenitor cells along the granulocytic pathway but not the monocytic pathway that is linked to osteoclast formation. Therefore, in addition to its potent stimulatory effects on osteoblastic bone formation, NaF applied to patients with osteoporosis could be expected to indirectly reduce osteoclastic bone resorption. 
4294941|When fetal rat long bones are incubated in the presence of
4294852|Three-dimensional skeletal muscle organ-like structures (organoids) formed in tissue culture by fusion of proliferating myoblasts into parallel networks of long, unbranched myofibers provide an in vivo-like model for examining the effects of growth factors, tension, and space flight on muscle cell growth and metabolism. To determine the feasibility of maintaining either avian or mammalian muscle organoids in a commercial perfusion bioreactor system, we measured metabolism, protein turnover, and autocrine/paracrine growth factor release rates. Medium glucose was metabolized at a constant rate in both low-serum- and serum-free media for up to 30 d. Total organoid noncollagenous protein and DNA content decreased approximately 22-28% (P < 0.05) over a 13-d period. Total protein synthesis rates could be determined accurately in the bioreactors for up to 30 h and total protein degradation rates could be measured for up to 3 wk. Special fixation and storage conditions necessary for space flight studies were validated as part of the studies. For example, the anabolic autocrine/ paracrine skeletal muscle growth factors prostaglandin F
41318695|The Yangtze finless porpoise (Neophocaena phocaenoides asiaeorientalis), as the sole freshwater subspecies of N. phocaenoides, is endemic to the Yangtze River and its adjacent lakes. Its population has declined significantly over recent decades. In this study, we established a skin-derived finite fibroblast cell line of the Yangtze finless porpoise, named YFP-SF1, using primary cell culture methods, and an immortalized cell line, T-YFP-SF1, through co-transfection (GFP and SV40 T antigens) techniques. YFP-SF1 proliferated continuously with a minimum population doubling time of 31 h and exhibited age-dependent changes in growth rate. T-YFP-SF1 cells exhibited fibroblast morphology and were characterized by a shorter doubling time, higher attachment efficiencies, colony formation at a low seeding density, and growth in low serum concentrations. Anchorage independence and foci formation in the cell monolayer were observed from passage 36. The chromosome number of YFP-SF1 and TYFP-SF1 remained stable at 2n=44 in the early passages, and the viability of thawed cells remained above 90% after cryopreservation in liquid nitrogen. Taken together, we have established fibroblast cell lines of Yangtze finless porpoise for the first time, which might assist as an in vitro model for this endangered mammal.
20869536|Fibroblasts are heterogeneous mesenchymal cells that play important roles in the production and maintenance of extracellular matrix. Although their heterogeneity is recognized, progenitor progeny relationships among fibroblasts and the factors that control fibroblast differentiation are poorly defined. The current study was designed to develop a reliable method that would permit in vitro differentiation of fibroblast-like cells from human and murine embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Undifferentiated ESCs were differentiated into embryoid bodies (EBs) with differentiation media. EBs were then cast into type I collagen gels and cultured for 21 d with basal media. The spindle-shaped cells that subsequently grew from the EBs were released from the gels and subsequently cultured as monolayers in basal media supplemented with serum. Differentiated cells showed a characteristic spindle-shaped morphology and had ultrastructural features consistent with fibroblasts. Immunocytochemistry showed positive staining for vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin but was negative for stage-specific embryonic antigens and cytokeratins. Assays of fibroblast function, including proliferation, chemotaxis, and contraction of collagen gels demonstrated that the differentiated cells, derived from both human and murine ESCs, responded to transforming growth factor-1 and prostaglandin E as would be expected of fibroblasts, functions not expected of endothelial or epithelial cells. The current study demonstrates that cells with the morphologic and functional features of fibroblasts can be reliably derived from human and murine ESCs. This methodology provides a means to investigate and define the mechanisms that regulate fibroblast differentiation.
4295225|Midgut epithelial cells were isolated from fifth-instar Pseudaletia unipuncta larvae by collagenase treatment of midgut tissue, and cultured in TNM-FH medium. Long-term continuous culture and maintenance of midgut cells were achieved with P. unipuncta armyworm intestinal cells. Several cells lines were obtained from these P. unipuncta primary cultures, and they have been subcultured and maintained for over 24 mo. The three major midgut cell types were present in the cultures, including stem (regenerative), columnar, and goblet cells. In vitro morphogenesis and differentiation of columnar and goblet cells from stem cells were observed. There appeared to be a cycle of cell death of goblet and columnar cells followed by their replacement from stem cells every 7-8 wk. After approximately six passages, the cell density in T-flasks appeared to be somewhat constant, reaching 10
20869550|We have modeled in vitro infection of African swine fever virus (ASFV) in primary unstimulated cells of the porcine bone marrow and have studied the phenotypical changes in the population of porcine lymphoid cells by cytophotometry. Monocytes and large-sized lymphocytes completely vanished in 72 h of infection which is result of high sensitivity of those cells to ASFV. We describe DNA synthesis in monocytes at 24 h post infection. Cytophotometry of the uninfected cells revealed the few number of atypical lymphocytes and lymphoblasts after 72 h of cultivation; whereas in viral infected cultures, atypical cells appeared in large quantity (about 14%) with 24 h. Most of atypical lymphocytes and lymphoblasts had altered nucleus, and only a small number of atypical cells had additional nucleus. The cytophotometry of main and additional nuclei showed that DNA content didn't exceed diploid standard which indicates that the additional nuclei were consequence of fragmentation of nuclei in lymphocytes.
4294211|The human vitamin D receptor mRNA expression in preconfluent human cultured keratinocytes was upregulated by treatment of these cells with
20172188| The effects of anoxia and reoxygenation on major antioxidant enzyme activities were investigated in vitro in immortalized rat brain endothelial cells (RBE cells). A sublethal anoxic period of 12 h was assessed for RBE cells using the neutral red uptake test. Anoxia markedly influenced the specific activity of catalase and superoxide dismutase, with no major effect on glutathione peroxidase or glutathione reductase. After 24 h postanoxia, the superoxide dismutase activity modulated by the presence or absence of oxygen returned to control value. Damage and recovery of RBE immortalized rat brain endothelial cells in culture after exposure to free radicals and other oxygen-derived species provides a useful in vitro model to study anoxia-reoxygenation trauma at the cellular level. 
4294358|Endothelial cells (ECs) may behave as hemodynamic sensors, translating mechanical information from the blood flow into biochemical signals, which may then be transmitted to underlying smooth muscle cells. The extracellular matrix (ECM), which provides adherence and integrity for the endothelium, may serve an important signaling function in vascular diseases such as atherogenesis, which has been shown to be promoted by low and oscillating shear stresses. In this study, confluent bovine aortic ECs (BAECs) were exposed to an oscillatory shear stress or to a hydrostatic pressure of 40 mmHg for time periods of 12 to 48 h. Parallel control cultures were maintained in static condition. Although ECs exposed to hydrostatic pressure or to oscillatory flow had a polygonal morphology similar to that of control cultures, these cells possessed more numerous central stress fibers and exhibited a partial loss of peripheral bands of actin, in comparison to static cells. In EC cultures exposed to oscillatory flow or hydrostatic pressure, extracellular fibronectin (Fn) fibrils were more numerous than in static cultures. Concomitantly, a dramatic clustering of
4295375|Given a role for the deregulation of p21WAF1 in the progression of bladder tumors, we examined the growth of cultured urothelial cells from wild-type and p21WAF1 null bladders. Bladders were excised, minced from euthanized p21WAF1 and wild-type mice, treated overnight with dispase, and then placed into flasks coated with collagen type I in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium with 10% fetal calf serum. After an overnight incubation, the media was replaced with a serum-free media and a portion of explants were treated with 12-O-tetrade-canoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) on day 7 and continued for either 4 or 9 wk. The urothelial origin of any surviving epithelial cells was determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using uroplakin II-specific primers, and the expression of the cell cycle-related proteins, p161NK4 and p19ARF, was examined by semiquantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting. Isolated wild-type and serially passaged p21WAF1 null epithelial-like cells were then injected subcutaneously into nude mice. We found that phorbol ester treatment at two different concentrations significantly enhanced uroepithelial colony formation from isolated wild-type mouse bladder tissue. On the other hand, significantly fewer urothelial colonies were derived from p21WAF1 null bladder cells treated with phorbol ester. Although there was apparent senescence and cell death of epithelial foci and stromal cells in phorbol ester-treated and -untreated p21WAF1 null cultures, after 3 mo there was an apparent subpopulation of epitheloid cells that overgrew each flask. There was a significant decrease in the number of these serially passaged cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle when compared with initial explant wild-type or p21WAF1 null cells. This subpopulation of epitheloid cells expressed the mouse uroplakin II gene, indicating a urothelial phenotype, but did not express either the p161NKa or p19ARF proteins, whereas p21WAF1 null bladders express both proteins. There was also a high level of expression of the p53 protein and a significant decrease in the expression of the p19ARF transcript in both p21WAF1 null bladder and p21WAF1 null cells. These p21WAF1 null cells could be easily passaged and when injected subcutaneously into nude mice, large tumors developed. Therefore, it appears that a subpopulation of urothelial cells from the p21WAF1 null bladder can develop a tumorigenic phenotype in vitro.
40205880|In this study, we describe a bioreactor system to deliver controlled stretch protocols to bioengineered heart muscle (BEHMs) and test the system when streptomycin (an aminoglycoside antibiotic, which blocks stretch-activated channels) is either added to or excluded from the culture medium. Streptomycin is a very commonly used component of cell culture antibiotic-antimycotic media additives, so its effects on muscle development and functional response to mechanical signals in vitro is worthy of investigation. Our hypothesis is that BEHMs will not adapt to the applied mechanical stretch protocol when streptomycin is present in the culture medium, but will do so when streptomycin is excluded. Bioengineered heart muscles were formed by culturing primary neonatal cardiac myocytes in a fibrin gel using a method previously developed in our laboratory. A custom bioreactor system was designed using SolidWorks and structural components manufactured using fusion deposition modeling. We utilized a stretch protocol of 1 Hz, 10% strain for 7 d. BEHMs were stretched in the presence and absence of streptomycin. As controls, BEHMs were maintained in a cell culture incubator with and without streptomycin. The contractile properties of all BEHMs were evaluated to determine the active force. We were able to demonstrate compatibility of the bioreactor system with BEHMs and were able to stretch 58 constructs with zero incidence of failure. When the BEHMs were stretched in the absence of streptomycin, the active force increased from a mean value of 51.75.6 (N=10) to 102.416.3 N (N=10), with p < 0.05. However, BEHMs that were stretched in the presence of streptomycin did not show any significant increase in active force generation. The average active force of BEHMs increased from a mean value of 57.610.2 (N=10) to 91.419.8 N (N=10) when stretched in the presence of streptomycin. In this study, we demonstrate compatibility of the a bioreactor system with BEHMs, stability of the BEHMs in response to stretch protocols, and significant functional improvement in response to controlled stretch only when streptomycin is excluded from the culture medium, supporting our hypothesis.
4295523|The aging of skin, including sunburning, is caused by ultraviolet (UV) irradiation. Here, we examined the inhibitory effect of ascorbic acid (AsA) and its derivatives AsA 2-phosphate (AA-2P) and AsA 2-glucoside (AA-2G) on UV-B-induced cytotoxicity in HaCaT keratinocytes. Results show that cell viability significantly decreased when exposed to UV-B at
4294314|During postembryonic development of insects, molting cycles affect epidermal cells with alternate periods of proliferation and differentiation. Cells of the cell line established from imaginai discs of the Indian meal moth (IAL-PID2) differentiate under the action of the molting hormone, 20-hydroxyecdysone, in a manner that is meaningful in terms of the development of the tissue from which they were derived. In particular, the hormone caused an accumulation of the cells in the G2 phase of their cycle and induced the formation of epithelial-like aggregates and the synthesis of specific proteoglycans. Recent discovery of members of the insulin superfamily in insects and the role of growth factors played by this family of molecules in vertebrates led us to check for their potential effects on IAL-PID2 cell cycle regulation. On the one hand, our results showed that insulin was involved in partial resumption of the cell cycle after an arrest caused by serum deprivation, but that other growth factors present in fetal calf serum were needed for full completion of mitosis. On the other hand, the cytostatic effect of 20-hydroxyecdysone was reversible, and, prior exposure of the cells to the hormone allowed the cells to complete one cell cycle in serum-free medium. These results suggest that the production of autocrine growth factors induced by ecdysteroids could circumvent the absence of serum. This cell culture model provides potential for further study of interactions between ecdysteroids and growth factor homologs during differentiation of insect epidermal cells.
40663753|Nerve grafts are often required to replace tissue damaged by disease, surgery, or extensive trauma. Limitations such as graft availability, donor site morbidity, and immune rejection have led investigators to develop strategies to engineer nerve tissue. The goal of this study was to fabricate a scaffoldless three-dimensional (3D) nerve construct using a co-culture of fetal nerve cells with a fibroblast monolayer and allow the co-culture to remodel into a 3D construct with an external fibroblast layer and an internal core of interconnected neuronal cells. Primary fibroblasts were seeded on laminincoated plates and allowed to form a confluent monolayer. Neural cells isolated from E-15 spinal cords were seeded on top of the fibroblast monolayer and allowed to form a networked monolayer across the monolayer of fibroblasts.Media shifts initiated contraction of the fibroblast monolayer and a remodeling of the co-culture into a 3D construct held statically in place by the two constraint pins. Immunohistochemistry using S100 (Schwann cell), 3-tubulin, DAPI, and collagen I indicated an inner core of nerve cells surrounded by an external layer of fibroblasts. Conduction velocities of the 3D nerve and control (fibroblast-only) constructs were measured in vitro and compared to in vivo measures of neonatal sciatic nerve. The conduction velocities of the nerve constructs were comparable to 24-d-old neonatal nerve. The presence of Schwann cells and the ability to conduct neuronal signals in vitro suggest the scaffoldless 3D nerve constructs will be a viable option for nerve repair.
40663815|Human embryonic stem cells (hESC), which are derived from the inner cell mass (ICM) of blastocyst stage embryos, are of great importance because of their unpredictable two unique features: their differentiation ability into all types of cells derived from three germ layers and their potentially unlimited capacity of self renewing with stable karyotype. These distinguished properties make hESC very promising cell source for regenerative medicine, tissue replacement therapies, and drug screening studies as well as genomics. However, due to the several technical problems, such as risk of teratoma formation, immune response, and unknown genetic pathways for lineage specific differentiation, and ethical drawbacks of their using in clinical treatments, hESC researches are still waiting to advance beyond to animal trials and drug studies. During the last decade, more than 300 new hESC lines have been derived and published by researchers worldwide. However, despite their similar well-known unique properties, recent studies reported that hESC lines have very individual properties and are differed from each other with regards to their differentiation ability and gene expression profiles. Therefore, all hESC lines should be characterized in detail and then registered in a stem cell bank for generating global database.In this report, the characteristic of hESC lines, which were established in Istanbul Memorial Hospital between 2003 and 2005, and derivation methods were described in detail to inform researchers and to facilitate new prospective cooperative studies.
4294325|Caco-2 cell human colon adenocarcinoma cell line was used to study the hormonal regulation of small intestinal epithelial cell differentiation. We had previously shown that insulin-transferrin-selenium and triiodothyronine (
4294430| The influence of extracellular matrix components and of extracellular matrix structure on in vitro cell growth was investigated in the UWOV2 (Pf), protein-free cell culture model. This cell line constitutively produces an ordered extracellular matrix in the absence of any exogenous protein or growth factor. Extracellular matrix from UWOV2 (Pf) cells was found to contain both transforming growth factor  (TGF) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), which were shown to have an autostimulatory role for UWOV2 (Pf) cell growth. Matrix structure was shown to be important for allowing expression of the functional activity of these two growth factors. In addition, a nonuniform distribution of PDGF, embedded within the matrix structure, was demonstrated by immunoelectronmicroscopy. Apart from these two well-defined growth factors, additional but as yet unidentified growth stimulatory factor(s) were extractable from UWOV2 (Pf) extracellular matrix. These investigations indicate the potential role of extracellular matrix both as a mechanism for concentrating as well as modulating the function of cellular growth factors. 
4294408| The latent form of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-) is a component of the extracellular matrix of bone. The active form, when locally injected in vivo, stimulates both inflammation and ectopic bone formation. The present study was undertaken to determine if TGF- also stimulated mineralization by isolated rat calvarial osteoblasts cultured in collagen gels. Gels were used because they should mimic in vivo conditions better than classical monolayer culture. Compared to cells in monolayers, osteoblasts cultured in collagen gels exhibited slower growth, but higher alkaline phosphatase activity and mineral deposition. Cultured cells also synthesized the osteoblast-specific marker, osteocalcin. The increase in osteocalcin in cell layers was parallel to the increase in mineral deposition. In the presence of TGF-, neither cell growth nor alkaline phosphatase activity increased. Instead, a small decrease occurred in both parameters when compared to untreated cultures. Accumulation of collagen, the major component of the extracellular matrix where mineralization occurs, was similar in untreated and TGF-1-treated cultures. However, 8 pM TGF-1 dramatically suppressed mineral deposition in both types of cultures. Despite TGF-1 stimulating a fourfold increase in lactic acid, the consequent increase in culture medium acidity did not account for the inhibitory effects of TGF-1 on mineralization. These results demonstrate that collagen gel culture is an improved technique over conventional monolayer culture for demonstrating differentiated osteoblast function and sensitivity to TGF-1. TGF-1, at a concentration that has little effect on cell growth, alkaline phosphatase activity, or collagen accumulation, is a potent inhibitor of mineralization. The mechanism by which TGF-1 inhibits mineralization remains to be determined. 
4295550| Hemolymph was taken from beet armyworm (Spodoptera exigua) larvae and a new hemocyte cell line (SeHe920-1a) was established by supplementing the culture medium with a reduced form of glutathione to avoid the activation of prophenoloxidase cascade. To evaluate the phagocytic ability of the SeHe920-1a cells, polystyrene microspheres of two sizes (6.14  0.45 m and 2.84  0.14 m in diameter) and inactivated spores of an entomopathogenic microsporidium, Vairimorpha sp. NIS M12 (5.10  0.21 m x 2.00  0.11 m), were introduced into the cell culture. The SeHe920-1a cells had higher phagocytic ability than other lepidopteran cell lines that were not derived from the hemocytes. When microsporidian spores were inoculated, 27% of SeHe920-1a cells were observed to take up spores (average 1.7 spores per cell). By cloning SeHe920-1a cells, 12 cell lines were established and designated SeHe920Y1 to SeHe920Y12. In comparison with the parental cell line, phagocytic activity was enhanced in SeHe920Y6, SeHe920Y10, and SeHe920Yll cell lines and especially in the SeHe920Y7 cell line, where approximately 50% of cells were phagocytic and the average number of microsporidian spores engulfed per cell was twice that of the SeHe920-1a cell line. 
23279364|In the early to mid-gestation fetus, skin wounds heal with no scar formation and perfect restoration of dermal architecture. This phenomenon is intrinsic to fetal skin. The intrinsic phenotypic properties of the fetal fibroblast are believed to be "the effector of scarless repair". We sought to prepare dermal matrices with high similarity to the mid-gestation fetal dermis using the technology of "self-assembly" with fetal dermal cells of 18, 20, and 22 wk gestation. Comparison of these dermal constructs to those prepared with neonatal dermal cells, adult skin, neonatal foreskin, and mid-gestation fetal skin demonstrates that these fetal dermal matrices bear marked morphological and biochemical resemblance to the mid-gestation fetal dermis. In order to shed further light on the genes involved in scarless wound healing, we conducted a differential gene array analysis of the neonatal and fetal dermal matrices. Using a gene chip (GLYCOv4 gene chip) of approximately 1,260 human genes, we observed differential expression of 67 genes. A number of fibrotic genes were observed to be downregulated and anti-fibrotic genes upregulated.
4294640|Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that Cd
4295406|Lipids of brain tissue and brain microvascular endothelial cells contain high proportions of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (long PUFAs). The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by the brain endothelial cells under the inductive influence of brain cells, especially perivascular glia, and coculture of endothelial cells and glial cells has been used to examine this induction. The objective of this study was to investigate whether C6 glioma cells are able to influence the lipid composition and shift the fatty acid (FA) patterns of the BBB model cell lines RBE4 and ECV304 toward the in vivo situation. Lipid classes of the three cell lines were analyzed by thin-layer chromatography and lipid FA patterns by high-performance liquid chromatography. Only ECV304 cells showed altered lipid composition in coculture with C6 cells. The fractions of triglycerides and cholesteryl esters (depending on the support filter) were about twice as high in coculture as when the cells were grown alone. Triglyceride fractions reached 13 to 15% of total lipids in coculture. The three cell lines showed an increase in the percentage of long PUFAs with respect to unsaturated FAs, mainly because of an increase in the percentages of arachidonic acid, all cis-7,10,13,16-docosatetraenoic acid, and all cis-7,10,13,16,19-docosapentaenoic acid. It is concluded that glioma C6 cells are able to induce a more in vivo-like FA pattern in BBB cell culture models. However, changes were not significant for the individual PUFAs, and their levels did not reach in vivo values.
4294281|Cultured mammary cells depend on interaction with a substratum for functional differentiation, even in the presence of lactogenic hormones. Protein synthesis and secretion by mouse mammary epithelial cells on floating collagen gels and (EHS) matrix were compared. Cells were prepared by collagenase digestion of tissue from mid-pregnant mice. Protein synthesis was consistently greater in cells attached to EHS matrix, and was associated with proportionately higher rates of protein secretion into culture medium. Cells on EHS secreted protein into a luminal space formed within multicellular alveoluslike structures. Luminal secreted protein, extracted by EGTA treatment of cells in situ, constituted up to 40% of total secreted radiolabeled protein for cells on EHS matrix. The EGTA extract contained a higher proportion of casein and lactoferrin, whereas transferrin was predominately in the medium. This indicated that cells on EHS matrix had become polarized and were secreting proteins vectorially. In contrast, EGTA treatment of cells on floating collagen gels released virtually no radiolabeled protein, showing that mammosphere formation was a property of cells on EHS. These biochemical observations were supported by ultrastructural evidence. In EHS cultures, the proportion of secreted protein in the luminal fraction, but not the distribution of secreted proteins, changed with time. This suggests that there may be leakage out of the lumen, or intraluminal degradation of protein after secretion. Nevertheless, the results suggest that cellular organization into mammospheres on EHS matrix promotes synthetic and secretory activity. This system provides a useful model for investigation of the regulation of milk secretion.
4294606|The Rotating-Wall Vessel (RWV) was used to culture chondrocytes for 36 d to observe the influence of low-shear and quiescent culture conditions allowing three-dimensional freedom on growth, differentiation, and extracellular matrix formation. Chondrocytes were freshly isolated from bovine cartilage and placed into the RWV with Cytodex-3 microcarriers. Nonadherent petri dishes were initiated with microcarriers as representative of standard culture conditions. In the RWV, large three-dimensional aggregates (5-7 mm) were formed in suspension. In addition, a large sheet of matrix adhered to the oxygenator core and vessel endcaps. Petri dish culture resulted in the formation of sheets of chondrocytes with no matrix production. Immunocytochemical analyses on histologic sections of tissue obtained from the RWV and the petri dish controls were performed with antibodies against fibronectin, collagen II, chondroitin-4-sulfate, chondroitin-6-sulfate, and vimentin. Results demonstrated increased signal in the RWV material while the petri dishes demonstrated a slight decrease in signal. In addition, differentiated chondrocytes were observed in sections of RWV material through 36 d, while few were observed in the sections of petri dish material. These results indicate that the unique conditions provided by the RWV afford access to cellular processes that signify the initiation of differentiation as well as production of normal matrix material.
20616558|Astogeny in botryllid ascidians is executed by highly synchronized, repeated development and death cycles operating simultaneously on three coexisting asexually derived generations: zooids, primary buds, and secondary buds. In this study, we validated the fact that surgically removed blastogenic stage "D" primary buds cultured under in vitro conditions, away from any discrete colonial regulatory cues, exhibit intrinsic phenomena that are probably masked by astogenic controls. They produce de novo epithelial monolayers (EM), extending their lifespan from a few days to 1 mo and up to 5 mo when floating in the medium. Enhanced EM formation was documented when fibroblast growth factor (FGF) was added after at least 24 h incubation in FGF-free medium. Surprisingly, with no FGF administration, while intact isolated buds did not develop any EM, injured buds developed EM in half of the cases. Working on actin, PL10, FGF-R, P-MEK, MAP-kinase, and cadherin expressions, we documented that extirpated buds and monolayers are very active on the molecular/biochemical levels, revealing various cells and cellular organelle stains and rapid changes in the protein levels along a daily basis. Cells situated in the center of the monolayers stained differently for some proteins than peripheral cells. Cumulatively, results showed that flattened attached monolayers, as well as free-floating stage "D" buds, are highly active, not only exhibiting differential expressions of various proteins along incubation, but are also highly responsive to physical damages. These results establish a novel in vitro model system for epithelial cell development and senescence, revealing surprising rejuvenation and extended lifespan phenomena.
4294907|To study the mechanisms of morphogenesis in salivary gland regeneration, we have established the RSMG-1 cell line derived from submandibular gland (SMG) of 10-wk-old Wistar female rats in serum-free culture. Our finding that RSMG-1 cells originated from duct cells was based on morphology and immunohistochemical results. In three-dimensional serum-free collagen gel culture, HGF induced branching morphogenesis of RSMG-1 cells. Histological examination revealed that HGF-induced branching structure exhibited well-formed lumina. This morphology closely resembles that found in vivo. The cells also expressed activin A. Exogenously added activin A at a high concentration reduced HGF-induced branching morphogenesis. These findings suggest that the morphogenesis of the salivary gland is modulated by HGF and activin A. Our results show that the RSMG-1 cell line may be useful in studies of salivary gland regeneration.
4295373|cDNAs representing an endogenous C-type ecotropic murine leukemia virus were isolated from a cDNA library constructed to represent mRNAs present in BC3H1 myogenic cells but not in C2C12 myogenic cells. RNA blot hybridization analysis using the cDNA inserts as probes revealed that BC3H1 cells produce MuLV-related transcirpts of at least three different size classes. A polymerase chain reaction enhanced assay for reverse transcriptase activity revealed the presence of reverse transcriptase in a viral pellet from medium conditioned by BC3H1 cells. A fungizone enhanced assay for syncitium formation provided further evidence of ecotropic retroviral particle production. Exposure of 3T3 cells to medium conditioned by BC3H1 cells, using conditions that facilitate infection, resulted in infection of the 3T3 cells, as confirmed by the syncitium formation assay. We conclude that BC3H1 cells produce an infectious ecotropic murine leukemia virus. Whether or not this feature of BC3H1 cells contributes to their inability to express some muscle-specific genes or to carry out myotube formation is unknown. Investigators will want to take into account that BC3H1 cells are virus producers when planning experiments that involve coculture of BC3H1 with other cell types, BC3H1 conditioned medium, retrovirally mediated transfection into BC3H1 cells, or study of the mCAT-1 amino acid transporter (the viral receptor) in BC3H1 cells. BC3H1 cells and the virus they produce may be of interest to those studying retroviral genomes and products and their effects.
4294025|Three lines of observation demonstrate the role of arthropods in transmission and evolution of viruses. a) Recent outbreaks of viruses from their niches took place and insects have played a major role in propagating the viruses. b) Examination of the list of viral families and their hosts shows that many infect invertebrates (I) and vertebrates (V) or (I) and plants (P) or all kingdoms (VIPs). This notion holds true irrespective of the genome type. At first glance the argument seems to be weak in the case of enveloped and non-enveloped RNA viruses with single-tranded (ss) segmented or non-segmented genomes of positive (+) or negative polarity. Here, there are several families infecting V or P only; no systematic relation to arthropods is found. c) In the non-enveloped plant viruses with ss RNA genomes there is a strong tendency for segmentation and individual packaging of the genome pieces. This is in contrast to ss+ RNA animal viruses and can only be explained by massive transmission by seed or insects or both, because individual packaging necessitates a multihit infection. Comparisons demonstrate relationships in the nonstructural proteins of double-stranded and ss+ RNA viruses irrespective of host range, segmentation, and envelope. Similar conclusions apply for the negative-stranded RNA viruses. Thus, viral supergroups can be created that infect V or P and exploit arthropods for infection or transmission or both. Examples of such relationships and explanations for viral evolution are reviewed and the arthropod orders important for cell culture are given.
4294359|A new cell line (Hep 3B-TR), which is resistant to growth-inhibition by transforming growth factor beta 1 (
4294029|Tumor cells from a spontaneously arising canine astrocytoma were isolated and cloned. Three clonally derived cell lines (DL3580 clone 1, DL3580 clone 2, and DL3580 clone 3) were developed and found to express glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as well as epidermal growth factor receptor (
4294753|Cell proliferation assays are essential to developing an understanding of the molecular mechanisms that modulate cell growth and differentiation. In this paper, we describe the application of alamarBlue, a new and versatile metabolic dye, for the detection of Swiss 3T3 fibroblast proliferation and/or survival. As a redox indicator, alamarBlue is reduced by reactions innate to cellular metabolism and, therefore, provides an indirect measure of viable cell number. Various assay parameters were optimized for a 96-well format to achieve a detectable range of fibroblast cell number from 100 to 20 000 cells/well, which is similar to that obtained with traditional (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) and [
40205948|Serum from goat, calf, and chicken sources were evaluated in terms of attachment, growth, and proliferation of explants of Indian major carp, Cirrhinus mrigala. The attachment of explants viz. heart, liver, and kidney was directly proportional to the concentration of the serum. Among these sera, the highest percentage of attachment, growth, and proliferation was recorded for 10% goat serum and 15% newborn calf serum without affecting their cell morphology. On contrary to these sera, chicken serum at 15% concentration was found to be mildly toxic for all the explants. The cell count was significantly high for the kidney, liver, and heart at 10% goat serum among all the tested sera as well as concentration. Similarly, the liver, heart, and kidney explants were found to survive up to the tenth, seventh, and ninth passage, respectively. Therefore, the goat serum at 10% concentration can be used as effectively as newborn calf serum for routine culture offish cells.
4294528|An essential component of any in vitro model for endothelial permeability is a confluent cell monolayer. The model reported here utilizes primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) cultured on recently developed polyethylene terephthalate micropore membranes. Using a modification of the Wright-Giemsa stain, confluent HUVEC monolayers grown on micropore membranes were routinely assessed using light microscopy. Determination of confluence using this method was confirmed by scanning electron microscopy. Transendothelial electrical resistance of HUVEC monolayers averaged
20869597|Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) prepared from somatic cells might become a novel therapeutic tool in regenerative medicine, especially for the central nervous system (CNS). In this study, we attempted to induce O4-positive (O4) oligodendrocytes from adult human fibroblast-derived iPSCs in vitro. We used two adult human iPSC cell lines, 201B7 and 253G1. 201B7 was induced by four-gene transduction (oct4, sox2, klf4, c-myc), and 253G1 was induced by three-gene transduction (oct4, sox2, klf4). We treated these cells with two in vitro oligodendrocyte-directed differentiation protocols that were optimized for human embryonic stem cells. One protocol used platelet-derived growth factor as the major mitogen for oligodendrocyte lineage cells, and the other protocol used epidermal growth factor (EGF) as the mitogen. Although the differentiation efficiency was low (less than 0.01%), we could induce O4 oligodendrocytes from 253G1 cells using the EGF-dependent differentiation protocol. This is the first report of the in vitro induction of oligodendrocytes differentiation from human iPSCs.
4295596|We have previously demonstrated that activin A at low concentrations induced ventral mesoderm including blood-like cells from Xenopus animal caps and that beating heart could be also induced from animal caps treated with 100 ng/ml activin A, suggesting that activin A might be involved in cardiac vasculogenesis. A vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a powerful mitogen for endothelial cells and is an inducer and regulator of angiogenesis. However, VEGF function in Xenopus development is not clearly identified. In this study, we determined the effect of VEGF on activin A-induced differentiation of animal cap. The VEGF induced duct-like structure composed of Flk-1-positive cells together with the induction of nonvascular tissues, such as neural tissues. This histological result was coincident with our reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis that VEGF together with activin A promoted the expression of Xenopus N-CAM and Xenopus brachyury. This study suggests that VEGF has additional biological activities besides angiogenesis, and arises a different function that VEGF induces stroma cell migration or recruitment that are required for blood vessel formation. This differentiation system will aid in the understanding of angiogenesis during early development.
40205775|The reconstruction of extensive tracheal defects is still an unsolved challenge for thoracic surgery. Tissue engineering is a promising possibility to solve this problem through the generation of an autologous tracheal replacement from patients' own tissue. Therefore, this study investigated the potential of three different coculture systems, combining human respiratory epithelial cells and human chondrocytes. The coculture systems were analyzed by histological staining with alcian blue, immunohistochemical staining with the antibodies, 34betaE12 and CD44v6, and scanning electron microscopy. The first composite culture consisted of human respiratory epithelial cells seeded on human high-density chondrocyte pellets. For the second system, we used native articular cartilage chips as base for the respiratory epithelial cells. The third system consisted of a collagen membrane, seeded with respiratory epithelial cells and human chondrocytes onto different sides of the membrane, which achieved the most promising results. In combination with an air-liquid interface system and fibroblast-conditioned medium, an extended epithelial multilayer with differentiated epithelial cells could be generated. Our results suggest that at least three factors are necessary for the development towards a tracheal replacement: (1) a basal lamina equivalent, consisting of collagen fibers for cell-cell interaction and cell polarization, (2) extracellular factors of mesenchymal fibroblasts, and (3) the presence of an air-liquid interface system for proliferation and differentiation of the epithelial cells.
4294257|We investigated the effect of bile acids either alone or in combination with lectins on immunoglobulin (Ig) production in vitro of rat mesenteric lymph node (MLN) lymphocytes to examine their immunoregulatory activities. Among free bile acids examined, chenodeoxycholic acid stimulated IgE production by MLN lymphocytes and inhibited IgA production at the concentration of 0.3 mM, whereas cholic and deoxycholic acids exerted the comparable effect at 3 mM. Among conjugated bile acids, deoxycholic acid derivatives stimulated IgE production more strongly than cholic acid derivatives. On the other hand, free and conjugated bile acids did not affect IgG production. The IgE production by MLN lymphocytes was stimulated by concanavalin A and inhibited by pokeweed mitogen, and the effect of phytohemmagglutinin and lipopolysaccharide was marginal. These lectins did not affect IgA and IgG production by the lymphocytes. In the presence of lectins, free bile acids affected IgE production at 0.03 mM. These results suggest the possibility that bile acid is a stimulant for food allergy.
4295043| Ouabain, a specific inhibitor of the sodium- and potassium-activated adenosine triphosphatase, causes reversible inhibition of the fusion of myoblasts to form myotubes. We further examined this observation to investigate whether control of Na/K-ATPase activity may normally contribute to the regulation of myogenesis. In control cultures, fusion was preceded by a small decrease in intracellular sodium concentration, but intracellular sodium and potassium increased significantly during fusion. Levels of ouabain that produce prolonged inhibition of fusion (400 M) virtually eliminated sodium and potassium gradients. However, lower ouabain levels (10-100 M) also produced significant changes in intracellular potassium and/or sodium along with little apparent decrease in the eventual extent of fusion. The effect of ouabain on protein synthesis was also examined. Low levels of ouabain (<50 M) that did not affect myogenesis also did not affect incorporation of radiolabeled amino acids, while higher concentrations produced a decline in protein synthesis that paralleled decreases in the rate of myoblast fusion. Levels of metabolic labeling were reduced 90% in cultures treated with 400 M ouabain. Inhibition of protein synthesis would prevent membrane remodeling required for fusion and other events in myogenesis. Thus, our results do not support any specific role for the sodium- and potassium-activated adenosine triphosphatase in regulating myogenesis. 
4294063|We previously demonstrated that human tracheobronchial epithelial (TBE) cells synthesize mucin and form mucous granules in culture when they are maintained on a collagen gel (CG) substratum, but not on a plastic tissue culture surface or a thin collagen-coated surface (Wu et al., Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol., 3:467-478; 1990). This observation led us to examine the effects of CG thickness on cell growth and differentiation in primary human/monkey TBE cell cultures. Using the same CG preparation, culture dishes with different thicknesses of CG substratum were prepared. In general, equivalent degrees of cell attachment and proliferation were observed in all cultures maintained on a collagen gel, independent of the thicknesses of CG substratum. However, a greater degree of mucin synthesis and secretion by the cells was observed as the thickness of the CG substratum was increased. Cultures maintained on a thick collagen gel (1 mm) exhibited greater apical membrane complexity, more pseudostratification, and more mucous granules than did cultures maintained on a thin CG substratum. The optimal culture surface for airway mucous cell differentiation contains more than 1-mm thickness of collagen gel substratum.
40602779|In healthy individuals, skin integrity is maintained by epidermal stem cells which self-renew and generate daughter cells that undergo terminal differentiation. Epidermal stem cells represent a promising source of stem cells, and their culture has great potential in scientific research and clinical application. However, no single method has been universally adopted for identifying and isolating epidermal stem cells. Here, we reported the isolation and characterization of putative epidermal stem cells from newborn mouse skin. The keratinocytes were separated enzymatically. Putative epidermal stem cells were selected by rapid adherence on a composite matrix made of type I collagen and fibronectin. Unattached cells were discarded after 10 min, and the attached cells were cultured in a defined culture medium. The isolated cells showed the typical epidermal stem cell morphology. Immunofluorescence indicated that the cells were strongly stained for  integrin family of extracellular matrix receptors. In conclusion, mouse putative epidermal stem cells were successfully isolated from newborn mouse epidermis on the basis of high rapid adhesion to extracellular matrix proteins and cultured in vitro.
20172230|Microvascular endothelial cells from abdominal fat pads of 6-wk-old broiler chickens were isolated to provide an in vitro system to study their physiological functions. The isolation procedure produced clumps of 10-30 cells, which attached to culture vessels in 4 h and attained confluency in 2 wk. At confluency, cells had a cobblestone appearance but were not contact inhibited and detached from the bottom of the culture vessel 2 wk after reaching confluency. The cells internalized acetylated low density lipoproteins, a characteristic of endothelial cells. This property was used to obtain pure endothelial cell cultures using the cell sorter. When cultured over Matrigel, a reconstituted matrix, the cells aligned themselves into chordlike structures and formed branching microvessels. Cells plated on type I collagen-coated culture flasks occasionally formed chordlike structures and proliferated at a faster rate than cells plated on Matrigel. Cells cultured on laminin-coated plates were slender and had long cytoplasmic extensions; however, cells cultured on uncoated plastic had fibroblastic morphology. These properties are similar to those described for microvessel endothelial cells isolated from tissues of other species.
4295527|The goal of this study was to generate cell lines from a variety of insect tissues that could be useful for developing in vitro assays with tissue-specific properties. In this article, we describe the establishment of new cell cultures from differentiated (primarily neural) and undifferentiated tissues (primarily embryonic) and their initial characterization. Cell lines were established from the following tissues of the budworm, Heliothis virescens, and the bollworm, Helicoverpa zea: larval ventral nerve cords (4 lines), larval midguts (1 line), adult ovaries (1 line), and embryonic tissues (11 lines). Cell lines were primarily characterized by morphological examination and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (both deoxyribonucleic acid amplification fingerprinting and inter-simple sequence repeats PCR).
40205883|In recent studies, we showed that murine fetal liver cells from progeny exposed to benzo()pyrene in utero by intraperitoneal injection of the dam at midpregnancy (12 d) suppressed cell proliferation in an allogeneic mixed lymphocyte response. On the other hand, fetal liver cells from the corn oil (vehicle for the carcinogen)-exposed progeny (control) appeared to enhance proliferation. Suppression or enhancement appeared to be mediated by fetal liver bearing CD8 and Lyt 1 (CD5) cells. Despite these manifestations, the role of third-party cells needs to be considered. As a first premise, adherent cells were targeted as possible third-party cells. To test the role of the adherent cells, liver cells from benzo()pyrene-exposed fetuses were treated with ficoll-hypaque, and the interface cells were fractionated through glass wool or nylon wool. It is known that adhering cells, macrophages and B cells, readily attach to glass or nylon wool. The effluent cells and the adherent cells were cultured with syngeneic responder cells and allogeneic stimulator cells in a mixed lymphocyte response. The results showed that benzo()pyrene-effluent cells led to the enhancement of proliferation in the mixed lymphocyte response, while benzo()pyrene-adherent cells led to suppression. The effluent and adherent cells of corn oil controls did not modify cell proliferation in the mixed lymphocyte response. These data suggest that a third-party cell, reasonably the macrophage or possibly B cells or both, since these are adherent cells, play a decided role in mediating suppression in the benzo()pyrene-exposed progeny.
4294743|Several lines of evidence suggest that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), a soluble protein secreted by mesenchymal cells, may elicit a morphogenic response in the developing metanephros. We investigated the role of HGF at three different stages of murine metanephric development utilizing serum-free organ culture. Cultures were initiated at E-13, E-15, and E-17; treated with exogenous HGF or antibodies to HGF (to block endogenous HGF) for 120 h in vitro; and evaluated for growth and differentiation in comparison to control explants cultured for 120 h in basal medium. HGF treatment of E-13 explants resulted in a reduction of growth and differentiation compared to control explants. Treatment of E-13 explants with antibodies to HGF produced explant growth and differentiation indistinguishable from control explants. In contrast to the results of E-13 cultures, explants initiated at E-15 and E-17 demonstrated an increased growth and differentiation profile when treated with HGF compared to controls. Treatment of E-15 and E-17 explants with antibodies to HGF resulted in a decrease growth and differentiation profile compared to control or HGF-treated explants. These data demonstrate that HGF has differential effects on renal morphogenesis at progressive developmental stages of metanephric development.
40602777|Transforming growth factor-s (TGF-s), expressed in various tissues, play important roles in embryonic development and adult tissue homeostasis through their effects on cell proliferation, cell differentiation, cell death, and cell motility. However, expression of TGF- signaling components and their biological effect on taste epithelia has not been elucidated. We performed expression analysis of TGF- signaling components in taste epithelia and found that the TGF-3 mRNA was specifically expressed in taste buds. Type II TGF-s receptor (TR-II) mRNA was specifically expressed in the tongue epithelia including the taste epithelia. To elucidate the biological function of TGF-3 in taste epithelia, we performed proliferation assay with primary cultured taste epithelial cells. In the presence of TGF-3, percentage of BrdU-labeled cells decreased significantly, suggesting that the TGF-3 inhibited the proliferation of cultured taste epithelial cells through inhibiting cell-cycle entry into S phase. By quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay, we found that the TGF-3 resulted in an increased level of expression of p15Ink4b and p21Cip1, suggesting that the TGF-3 inhibited the taste epithelial cell proliferation through inhibiting G1cyclin-Cdk complexes. Taken together, these results suggested that the TGF-3 may regulate taste epithelial cell homeostasis through controlling cell proliferation.
4294906| The induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) and Phase II conjugating enzymes by prototypical hepatic enzyme inducers was studied in adult male rat hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were suspended and cultured in diluted Matrigel in a basal serumfree Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium and exposed to the prototypical liver enzyme inducers, 3-methylcholanthrene, phenobarbital, hydrocortisone, and clofibrate for 48 h. Total RNA and microsomes were isolated and prepared, respectively, at 72 h. The expression of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B1, CYP2C11, CYP2E1, CYP3A1, CYP3A2, CYP4A1, fatty acyl-CoA oxidase, uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase, glutathione-S-transferase, and sulfotransferase was determined at the mRNA level with reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The expression of CYP1A1, CYP2B1, CYP2C11, CYP2E1, and CYP4A1 was also measured at the apoprotein level by Western immunoblotting. Using these culture and expression analysis techniques, we have found that the expression of these metabolic enzymes can be maintained in culture for up to 7 d at the mRNA and apoprotein levels. In addition, hepatocytes were found to respond to chemical enzyme inducers with marked increases in enzyme expression at either the mRNA or protein level and in a concentration-related fashion. Cells were responsive to enzyme induction as early as 24 h after initial plating. The results obtained from this investigation indicate that the presence of diluted Matrigel (at a concentration of 0.35 mg/ml), the use of low concentrations of insulin (1 M), hydrocortisone (0.1 M), and serum-free culture medium can maintain the differentiated phenotype and responsiveness of cultured hepatocytes to chemical-induced metabolic enzyme expression. Under the conditions used in this study, enzyme induction in adult male rat hepatocytes shows close agreement with enzyme induction observed in the livers of rats exposed to these or similar prototypical enzyme inducers. Rat hepatocytes cultured in the presence of diluted Matrigel coupled with enzyme mRNA expression analysis with RT-PCR are proven to be a valuable and important in vitro toxicological approach to assess the chemical-induced changes in expression of liver CYP450 and Phase II conjugating enzymes. 
41408866|We have isolated a stable recombinant cell line CHSE-TOF5 derived from the Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) embryo cells for use as an inducible expression system. The cells were transfected with the pTet-Off plasmid from the Tet On/Off Clontech system, carrying a G418 resistance gene. Several G418-resistant clones were subcultured and characterised by quantitative PCR (qPCR) and by transient transfection. The level of expression of transcriptional activator was measured by qPCR in a number of isolated clones, and transient transfection with a pTRE2-hyg-LUC plasmid was used to evaluate the inducibility of these clones. A clone was selected for its relative fast cell growth and good level of inducibility. This genetically engineered cell line is a valuable tool for the fish research community especially in research areas investigating the biological function of proteins from fish or fish pathogens.
40205930|We have established a continuous cell line from the fat body tissue of the longicorn beetle Plagionotus christophi. The cells have been serially subcultured in MGM450 medium, and the line has been designated as PC-1. The cells were grown in suspension and comprise largely flattened spindle- or oval-shaped cells morphologically related to blood cells of longicorn beetles. The chromosome number ranged from 19 to 36, with a mode of 20 (diploid). The growth curve was determined at the 100th passage, and the population doubling time was calculated to be 3.79 d. Isozyme analysis of malic enzyme, phosphoglucose isomerase, and phosphoglucomutase revealed that PC-1 cells were enzymatically distinct from coleopteran XP-1, AnCu-35, dipteran AeA1-2, and lepidopteran GaMe-LF1 cell lines.
4294784|The ability of the murine mammary fat pad to directly stimulate the growth of mammary epithelial cells and to modulate the effects of various mammogenic agents has been investigated in a newly described, hormone- and serum-free coculture system. COMMA-1D mouse mammary epithelial cells were cultured for 5 or 7 d with various supplements in the absence or presence of epithelium-free mammary fat pad explants from virgin female BALB/c mice. Cocultured fat pad stimulated increases in the DNA content of COMMA-1D cultures by two- to threefold or six- to eightfold after 5 or 7 d, respectively. The mitogenic effect was additive to that of 10% fetal calf serum and could not be attributed to the release of prostaglandin E
4294539|Parenchymal (epithelial or mesenchymal) stem cells are rapidly drawing both scientific and clinical attention in solid organs like the liver, skin, intestine and abdominal mesothelium, just as has been the case in the hematopoietic system. For the stem cells of these organs various definitions, markers for identification, methods of isolation and in vitro cultivation, and lineage mechanisms have been proposed and some of them are now proven to be valid and useful. In this article attempts will be made to explore whether there are stem cells in the lower respiratory system (from the trachea to the lung periphery) and what they look like. Because of its anatomical and functional complexity the stem cell concept for the respiratory system has been developing rather slowly. Nevertheless, the data available seem to indicate that in analogy to the above mentioned organs there is only one type of epithelial stem cells throughout all sections of the lower respiratory system during fetal through adult stages. They are multipotent for cell differentiation and able to yield lineage progenitors for ciliated, goblet, basal, Clara, neuroendocrine, alveolar type 1 and alveolar type 2 cells.
4294207|A new human pancreatic cancer (HPAC) cell line was established from a nude mouse xenograft (CAP) of a primary human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. In culture, HPAC cells form monolayers of morphologically heterogenous, polar epithelial cells, which synthesize carcinoembryonic antigen, CA 19-9, CA-125, cytokeratins, antigens for DU-PAN-2, HMFG1, and AUA1, but do not express chromogranin A or vimentin indicative of their pancreatic ductal epithelial cell character. In the presence of serum, HPAC cell DNA synthesis was stimulated by insulin, insulin growth factor-I, epidermal growth factor, and
40663803|Rapid advances in stem cell research have led to the derivation of hundreds of human embryonic stem (hES) cell lines in centers throughout the world, as well as the development of new technologies for producing pluripotent stem cells. These cell lines have unique characteristics and were derived using a variety of ethical guidelines. Stem cell registries have been developed in order to collect, organize, and disseminate cell line-specific information. In this review, we describe the current state of the field by providing an overview of the unique qualities and mandates of the three major stem cell registries: the European hES Cell Registry, the Registry of hES Cell Line Provenance developed by the International Society for Stem Cell Research, and the International Stem Cell Registry of hES and induced pluripotent stem cell lines established at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. While each registry has its own unique mandate and features, there is some overlap in the goals and information provided. This review discusses the challenges and prospects for an integrated approach in which all three registries effectively collaborate to minimize duplication and facilitate information exchange within the stem cell community.
4294182|We have developed the first explant technique that allows the in vitro study of gill physiology and biochemistry in marine species. Gill fragments were cultured at
4295154|Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is a primary antioxidant for cells. But, ascorbic acid added to culture medium is not readily available to cells in culture, because it is unstable in aqueous media. We determined the conditions required to obtain and maintain a constant concentration of ascorbate in the culture medium using ascorbate and ascorbate-phosphate. The study was carried out with human fibroblasts and the amounts of ascorbate in the culture medium were determined by high performance liquid chromatography. A mixture of 0.25 mmol/L ascorbate and 0.45 mmol/L ascorbate-phosphate provided a constant concentration of ascorbate in the culture medium. This constant ascorbate concentration proved to be nontoxic for cells and stimulated cell growth in the short term and long term.
23481786|Glioblastoma progression is mainly characterized by intense apoptosis resistance and marked necrosis. Overexpression of BCL2L12, a novel member of Bcl-2 family has been shown in primary glioblastoma. BCL2L12 blocks effective caspase-3/7 maturation and inhibits p53 tumor suppressor, deriving resistance toward apoptosis and inducing extensive cell necrosis. Cisplatin is a major chemotherapeutic agent which has a broad range of anti-neoplastic activities including apoptosis induction. To investigate the effect of cisplatin on the expression of BCL2L12 in glioblastoma cells, two glioblastoma cell lines were treated with different concentrations of cisplatin for 48 h. The cell viability and IC50 was determined using MTT assay. Then, the two glioblastoma cell lines were treated with 48 h IC50 concentration of cisplatin for 24, 48, and 72 h. Apoptosis induction was analyzed by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. Gene expression study was performed on BCL2L12 and TBP as target and internal control genes, respectively. The quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction results showed that BCL2L12 gene expression was significantly (p=0.001) downregulated in the presence of cisplatin. In conclusion, cisplatin treatment induced a time-dependent apoptosis in glioblastoma cells, at least partially via downregulation of BCL2L12 gene expression.
4294851| The hepatotoxicant thioacetamide (TH) has classically been used as a model to study hepatic necrosis; however, recent studies have shown that TH can also induce apoptosis. In this report we demonstrate that 2.68  0.54% of the albumin-SV40 T-antigen transgenic rat hepatocytes undergo TH-induced apoptosis, a level comparable to other in vivo models of liver apoptosis. In addition, TH could induce apoptosis and necrosis in the L37 albumin-SV40 T-antigen transgenic rat liver-derived cell line. Examination of dying L37 cells treated with 100 mM TH by electron microscopy revealed distinct morphological characteristics that could be attributed to apoptosis. Quantitation of apoptosis by FACS analysis 24 h after treatment with 100 mM TH revealed that 81.3  1.6% of the cells were undergoing apoptosis. In contrast, when L37 cells were treated with 250 mM TH, cells exhibited characteristics consistent with necrotic cell death. DNA fragmentation ladders were produced by growth factor withdrawal-induced apoptosis; however, in 100 mM TH-induced apoptosis, DNA fragmentation ladders were not observed. Analysis of endonuclease activity in L37 cells revealed that the enzymes were not inactivated in the presence of 100 mM TH. The data presented in this report indicate that the L37 cell line could be used to study the mechanism of TH-induced apoptosis that was not mediated through a mechanism requiring DNA fragmentation. 
4295290| Ethanolamine (Etn) is required for the growth of epithelial cells in culture. Without Etn, the amount of phosphatidyl-ethanolamine (PE) in membrane lipids is reduced, and cell proliferation stops. When the membrane lipids are deficient of PE, some extracellular signaling processes become impaired. In this study, we examined the effect of Etn deprivation on the formation of intercellular networks in immortalized human oral keratinocytes. Keratinocytes proliferate with undifferentiated morphologies in a low-calcium medium, whereas they undergo differentiation to form intercellular networks in a high-calcium medium. The cells were first cultured with or without Etn supplement in a low-calcium (0.07 mM) medium, and then the calcium concentration was raised to 1.8 mM. The localization and organization of the following proteins were examined: (1) desmogleins and plakoglobin in desmosomes, (2) E-cadherin and -catenin in adherens junctions and (3) actin and keratin filaments in cytoskeletons. As expected, in the Etn-supplemented cells, the elevated level of calcium induced the junctional localization of the proteins associated with desmosomes and adherens junctions and also induced the formation of keratin and actin networks. On the contrary, in the Etn-deprived cells, the elevated level of calcium induced none of the above processes. The results suggest that having a sufficient amount of PE or proper phospholipid composition in the membranes is crucial for differentiation in epithelial cells. 
4294956|Embryonic development is determined by preset intrinsic programs and extrinsic signals. To explore the possibility that transcription factors are present at the onset of development, preparations of yolk, albumin, and blastoderm from unfertilized and fertilized white Leghorn chicken eggs were screened by a panel of 16 transcription factor antibodies with Western blot techniques. Yolk was positive for 13 transcription factors, whereas blastoderm was positive for 10, and albumin was positive for 5. In yolk, several transcription factors, GATA-2, E2F-1, MyoD, and TFIID, were developmentally regulated. These results indicate that intracellular yolk and extracellular albumin contain transcription factors which presumably influence early chick embryonic development from prefertilization to the late blastoderm stage. Thus, the utility of preset maternal transcription factors within yolk and albumin complement maternally derived mRNA to determine the early development of the zygote.
20616586|Immunotherapy, particularly active vaccination, may be developed as an effective and safe treatment modality for malignant gliomas, which continue to have a poor prognosis, despite advances in surgical techniques and adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Since no glioma-specific tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) have been discovered, autologous tumor cells or well-established glioma cell lines could be used in future vaccination protocols to induce antitumour immunity against unknown TAAs. One obstacle for clinical use of these tumour cell vaccines is related to foetal calf serum (FCS). Efforts are currently being directed toward developing FCS-free media and serum-free alternatives to culture these cell vaccines. In this study, a medium containing human serum and one serum-free medium (UltraCulture), supplemented or not with epidermal growth factor, were tested on morphology, survival, DNA content and TAA expression of human glioma cell lines and glioma biopsy primary cultures. Their effects were compared on FCS-containing medium. Results show that, whatever the medium used, no significant variations in morphology and survival were observed. Furthermore, human serum-containing medium or UltraCulture preserved at early passage cultures the cell population of interest present in the biopsies before culture. In addition, the expression profile of eight TAAs was similar between these media. These data indicate that human serum-containing medium and UltraCulture serum-free medium could be promising candidates to produce tumour-cell vaccines.
4295693|The significantly higher incidence of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries in collegiate women compared with men may result from relative ligament laxity. Differences in estrogen and relaxin activity, similar to that seen in pregnancy, may account for this. We quantified estrogen receptors by flow cytometry and relaxin receptors by radioligand binding assay in human ACL cells and compared the presence of these receptors in males and females. ACL stumps were harvested from seven males and eight females with acute ACL injuries. The tissue was placed in M199 cell culture medium. Outgrowth cultures were obtained, and passage 2 cells were used for all studies. Estrogen receptor determination was performed using flow cytometry. Relaxin binding was performed in ACL cells derived from five female and male patients using
23279365|The genome size (C value) of eight commercially important fish species in China was measured using flow cytometry. Chicken (Gallus domesticus) erythrocytes were used as reference cells. When using propidium iodide (PI) as the fluorescent dye, genome sizes were 1.090.08, 2.750.12, 1.050.05, 1.350.11, 0.990.05, 0.900.08, 0.900.07, and 0.880.07 pg for Japanese eel (Anguilla japonica), mullet (Myxocyprinus asiaticus), yellowcheek carp (Elopichthys bambusa), blunt snout bream (Megalobrama amblycephala), yellow catfish (Pelteobagrus fulvidraco), ricefield eel (Monopterus albus), mandarin fish (Siniperca chuatsi), and snakehead (Ophicephalus argus), respectively. However, genome sizes were 1.250.00, 3.080.02, 1.250.00, 1.570.01, 0.960.01, 1.000.01, 0.910.01, and 0.890.01 pg for these fishes, respectively, when 4, 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) was used as the fluorescent dye. Regardless of the dye used, the more evolutionarily advanced species had a smaller genome size than those with a lower evolutionary status. For each species, we also measured the size of erythrocytes and their nucleus and evaluated the relationships between erythrocyte size, nucleus size, chromosome number, and genome size. Genome size was positively correlated with erythrocyte nucleus size and chromosome number when using PI as the fluorescent dye, but it was only correlated with erythrocyte nucleus size when DAPI was used.
40663756|The present study attempted to examine whether clonal cell lines of the oral epithelium can differentiate into ameloblasts and regenerate tooth when combined with dental germ mesenchyme. Clonal cell lines with a distinct morphology were established from the oral epithelium of p53-deficient fetal mice at embryonic day 18 (E18). The strain of mouse is shown to be a useful source for establishing clonal and immortalized cell lines from various tissues and at various stages of development. Tooth morphogenesis is almost completed and the oral epithelium is segregated from the dental epithelium at E18. In RT-PCR analysis of cell lines, mucosal epithelial markers (cytokeratin 14) were detected, but ameloblast markers such as amelogenin and ameloblastin were not detected when cells were cultured on plastic dish. They formed stratified epithelia and expressed a specific differentiation marker (CK13) in the upper layer when cultured on feeder layer or on collagen gel for 1-3 wk, demonstrating that they are of oral mucosa origin. Next, bioengineered tooth germs were prepared with cell lines and fetal molar mesenchymal tissues and implanted under kidney capsule for 2-3 wk.Five among six cell lines regenerated calcified structures as seen in natural tooth. Our results indicate that some oral epithelial cells at El8 possess the capability to differentiate into ameloblasts. Furthermore, cell lines established in the present study are useful models to study processes in tooth organogenesis and tooth regeneration.
4295222|The Manduca sexta (L.) [Lepidoptera: Sphingidae] and Heliothis virescens (F.) [Lepidoptera: Noctuidae] midguts consist of a pseudostratified epithelium surrounded by striated muscle and tracheae. This epithelium contains goblet, columnar, and basal stem cells. The stem cells are critically important in that they are capable of massive proliferation and differentiation. This growth results in a fourfold enlargement of the midgut at each larval molt. The stem cells are also responsible for limited cell replacement during repair. While the characteristics of the stem cell population vary over the course of an instar, stem cells collected early in an instar and those collected late can start in vitro cultures. Cultures of larval stem, goblet, and columnar cells survive in vitro for several mo through proliferation and differentiation of the stem cells. One of the two polypeptide differentiation factors which have been identified and characterized from the culture medium has now been shown to be present in midgut in vivo. Thus the ability to examine lepidopteran midgut stem cell growth in vitro and in vivo is proving to be effective in determining the basic features of stem cell action and regulation.
4294910|Prolactin gene expression in extrapituitary tissues, such as decidua and lymphocytes, is regulated by a distinct promoter approximately 6 kb upstream of the pituitary prolactin gene transcription start site. Here we describe studies in a human endometrial stromal cell line, N5, that was immortalized by transfection with an SV40 mutant and which expresses the prolactin gene driven by the extrapituitary promoter. The N5 cells have phenotypic features of primary cultures of decidualized human endometrial stromal cells and secrete low levels of prolactin and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1), both of which are markers of decidualized endometrial stromal cells. As in primary cultures of endometrial stromal cells, treatment of N5 cells with progesterone and estradiol alone or in combination with prostaglandin E
4294869|Secondary culture of nontransformed bile duct epithelium has been difficult to achieve. STO feeder cell-dependent secondary cultures of adult pig bile duct cells were established from primary cultures of adult pig liver cells. Adult pig hepatocytes exhibited limited or no replication and were lost from the secondary culture at Passage 3 or 4. In contrast, adult pig bile duct cells replicated and were carried for 4-8 passages in secondary culture. A simple method to produce nearly pure pig intrahepatic bile duct cultures was first to freeze a relatively crude liver cell preparation. Upon subsequent thawing, all hepatocytes and most macrophages were lysed. Bile duct cells composed 95% of the surviving cells after the freeze/thaw, and they grew out rapidly. The bile duct cells grew on top of the STO feeder cells as closely knit epithelial, colonial outgrowths. Histocytochemical and biochemical analyses demonstrated high levels of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity and low levels of P450 activity in the bile duct cultures. The bile duct cells spontaneously adopted a multicellular ductal morphology after 7-10 d in static culture which was similar to that found in in vivo pig liver. Transmission electron microscopic examination revealed complex junctions and desmosomes typical of epithelium, and lumenally projecting cilia typical of in vivo intrahepatic bile ductules. This simple method for the coculture of pig intrahepatic bile duct cells which adopt in vivo-like structure may facilitate biological studies of this important, but difficult to culture, cell type.
4295286|Primary hepatocytes cultured as monolayers or as spheroids were studied to compare the effects of four different culture media (Williams' E, Chee's, Sigma Hepatocyte, and HepatoZYME medium). Rat hepatocytes were cultured as conventional monolayers for 3 d or as spheroids for 2 wk. For spheroid formation a method was employed that combined the use of a nonadherent substratum with rotation of cultures. Hepatocyte integrity and morphology were assessed by light and electron microscopy and by reduced glutathione content. Hepatocyte function was measured by albumin secretion and 7-ethoxy-coumarin metabolism. Chee's medium was found to be optimal for maintenance of hepatocyte viability and function in monolayers, but it failed to support spheroid formation. For spheroid formation and for the maintenance of spheroid morphology and function, Sigma HM was found to be optimal. These results demonstrate that the medium requirements of hepatocytes differ markedly depending on the culture model employed. Spheroid culture allowed better preservation of morphology and function of hepatocytes compared with conventional monolayer culture. Hepatocytes in spheroids formed bile canaliculi, and expressed an actin distribution resembling that found in hepatocytes in vivo. Albumin secretion was maintained at the same level as that found during the first d in primary culture, and 7-ethoxycoumarin metabolism was maintained over 2 wk in culture at approximately 30% of the levels found in freshly isolated hepatocytes. The improved morphology and function of hepatocyte cultures as spheroids may provide a more appropriate in vitro model for certain applications where the maintenance of liver-specific functions in long-term culture is crucial.
40205881|Tight junctions (TJs) are essential for normal function of epithelia, restricting paracellular diffusion and contributing to the maintenance of cell surface polarity. Superficial cells of the urothelium develop TJs, the basis for the paracellular permeability barrier of the bladder against diffusion of urinary solutes. Focusing on the superficial cell layer of stratified cell cultures of an immortalized human ureteral cell line, TEU-2 cells, we have examined the presence of TJ and TJ-associated proteins. TEU-2 cells were treated with calcium chloride and fetal bovine serum culture conditions used to induce stratification that resembles the normal transitional epithelial phenotype. Cultures were examined for TJ and TJ-associated proteins by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and evaluated for TJ mRNA by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). TEU-2 cultures exhibited immunoreactivity at intercellular margins for claudins 1, 4, 5, 7, 14, and 16 whereas claudins 2, 8, and 12 were intracellular. RTPCR corroborated the presence of these claudins at the mRNA level. The TJ-associated proteins occludin, JAM-1, and zonula occludens (ZO-1, ZO-2, and ZO-3) were localized at cell margins. We have found that numerous TJs and TJ-associated proteins are expressed in stratified TEU-2 cultures. Further, we propose TEU-2s provide a useful ureteral model for future studies on the involvement of TJs proteins in the normal and pathological physiology of the human urinary system.
23353396|The central nervous system (CNS), once injured, rarely recovers original function mainly due to its limited regeneration ability. Astrocytes are cells that play critical roles in neural regeneration. Several biomaterials have been studied to replace and regenerate lost tissues within injured CNS. Seaweeds have extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) with bioactive properties such as antiviral and antioxidant properties. In this study, astrocyte activity was assessed, after being cultured on an electrospun polycaprolactone (PCL) nanofibrous mat containing a brown seaweed EPS. Laminarin and fucoidan, two main components of EPS extract from the brown seaweed, were concluded to increase or decrease astrocyte activity with respect to their concentration. When the concentration was under 10 g/ml, the astrocytes tended to increase their viability. In contrast, over 10 g/ml EPS in media suppressed the viability of astrocytes. In addition, when contained in PCL nanofiber, the EPS extract was also proven to influence astrocyte activity in the same way as the case when astrocytes were exposed to EPS in solution. This implies that the brown seaweed EPSPCL nanofiber mat can be used for temporal control of astrocyte activity by EPS concentration. Through this research, we propose that the electrospun EPSPCL nanofiber could be used as a nanomedicine or scaffold to treat CNS injuries.
4295188| Fibroblast contraction of collagen gels is regarded as a model of wound contraction. Transforming growth factor (TGF)- added to such gels can augment contraction consistent with its suggested role as a mediator of fibrotic repair. Since fibroblasts isolated from fibrotic tissues have been suggested to express a "fibrotic phenotype," we hypothesized that TGF- exposure may lead to a persistent increase in fibroblasts' contractility. To evaluate this question, confluent human fetal lung fibroblasts were treated with serum-free Dulbecco modified Eagle medium (DMEM), with or without 100 M TGF-1, TGF-2, or TGF-3 for 48 h. Fibroblasts were then trypsinized and cast into gels composed of native type I collagen isolated from rat tail tendons. After 20 min for gelation, the gels were released and maintained in serum-free DMEM. TGF--pretreated fibroblasts caused significantly more rapid gel contraction (52.5  0.6, 50.9  0.2, and 50.3  0.5% by TGF-l, -2, and -3 pretreated fibroblasts, respectively) than control fibroblasts (74.0  0.3%, P < 0.01). This effect is concentration dependent (50-200 nM), and all three isoforms had equal activity. The effect of TGF-l, however, persisted for only a short period of time following the removal of TGF-, and was lost with sequential passage. These observations suggest that the persistent increase in collagen-gel contractility, mediated by fibroblasts from fibrotic tissues, would not appear to be solely due to previous exposure of these cells to TGF-. 
4294230|An AcMNPV recombinant (Ac-gal-luc) carrying the
41408878|Although it has been 30 yr since the development of derivation methods for mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells, the biology of derivation of ES cells is poorly understood and the efficiency varies dramatically between cell lines. Recently, the Rho kinase inhibitor Y-27632 and the cell dissociation reagent Accutase were reported to significantly inhibit apoptosis of human ES cells during passaging. Therefore, in the current study, C57BL/6xl29/Sv mouse blastocysts were used to evaluate the effect of the combination of the two reagents instead of using the conventional 129 line in mouse ES cell derivation. The data presented in this study suggests that the combination of Y-27632 and Accutase significantly increases the efficiency of mouse ES cell derivation; furthermore, no negative side effects were observed with Y-27632 and Accutase treatment. The newly established ES cell lines retain stable karyotype, surface markers expression, formed teratomas, and contributed to viable chimeras and germline transmission by tetraploid complementation assay. In addition, Y-27632 improved embryoid body formation of ES cells. During ES cell microinjection, Y-27632 prevented the formation of dissociation-induced cell blebs and facilitates the selection and the capture of intact cells. The methods presented in this study clearly demonstrate that inhibition of Rho kinase with Y-27632 and Accutase dissociation improve the derivation efficiently and reproducibility of mouse ES cell generation which is essential for reducing variability in the results obtained from different cell lines.
4294051|Mammalian melanocytes in epidermis extend their dendrites in response to UV ray in vivo in addition to proliferation and pigmentation. We found that cultured macrophages exert a factor in response to UV irradiation and that this factor induces the extension of dendrites of melanocyte. We designated this factor as dendrite extension factor (DEF) and characterized it as a protein. Our results indicate that the molecular weight of DEF is 30 000 ~ 100 000 and that it is heat-labile. Macrophages release DEF through transcription and translation. DEF seems to be a novel factor that enhances melanogenesis by UV irradiation.
20869552|The study of mechanisms by which animals tolerate environmental extremes may provide strategies for preservation of living mammalian materials. Animals employ a variety of compounds to enhance their survival, including production of disaccharides, glycerol, and antifreeze compounds. The cryoprotectant glycerol was discovered before its role in amphibian survival. In the last decade, trehalose has made an impact on freezing and drying methods for mammalian cells. Investigation of disaccharides was stimulated by the variety of organisms that tolerate dehydration stress by accumulation of disaccharides. Several methods have been developed for the loading of trehalose into mammalian cells, including inducing membrane lipid-phase transitions, genetically engineered pores, endocytosis, and prolonged cell culture with trehalose. In contrast, the many antifreeze proteins (AFPs) identified in a variety of organisms have had little impact. The first AFPs to be discovered were found in cold water fish; their AFPs have not found a medical application. Insect AFPs function by similar mechanisms, but they are more active and recombinant AFPs may offer the best opportunity for success in medical applications. For example, in contrast to fish AFPs, transgenic organisms expressing insect AFPs exhibit reduced ice nucleation. However, we must remember that nature's survival strategies may include production of AFPs, antifreeze glycolipids, ice nucleators, polyols, disaccharides, depletion of ice nucleators, and partial desiccation in synchrony with the onset of winter. We anticipate that it is only by combining several natural low temperature survival strategies that the full potential benefits for mammalian cell survival and medical applications can be achieved.
40205885|Our previous study indicated that oleic acid prevented apoptotic cell death induced by trans 10, cis12 (t10, c12)-conjugated linoleic acid in rat hepatoma dRLh-84 cells. The intracellular mechanism of action oleic acid is still unknown. Here, we showed that p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibition using its specific inhibitor SB203580 cancelled the ameliorative effect of oleic acid on the cytotoxicity of t10, c12-conjugated linoleic acid. In addition, SubGl cell population analysis showed that p38 MAPK played an essential role in the prevention of apoptotic cell death by oleic acid. In fact, p38 phosphorylation level was upregulated in cells treated with oleic acid irrespective of t10, c12-conjugated linoleic acid stimulation. Interestingly, t10, c12-conjugated linoleic acid increased intracellular triglyceride accumulation. However, oleic acid completely inhibited this effect. These observations indicated the involvement of blockade of a p38 MAPK pathway in the ameliorative effect of oleic acid on apoptosis induced by t10, c12-conjugated linoleic acid.
40205787|Incidence of colon cancer has increased rapidly in China. Although many colon cancer cell lines have been established previously, most of them were derived from patients from western countries. Epidemiological, clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular biological studies showed that there are considerable differences between Chinese and western countries colon cancer patients. Therefore, establishment of novel colon cancer cell line from Chinese is useful for studying the racial difference of this disease and can be important for studying the pathogenesis of colon cancer in China. In our laboratory, two novel continuous human colon cancer cell lines, SHT-1 and SHH-1, have been established in vitro from Chinese patients, and both cell lines have been passaged for 4 yr, and they have been continuously subcultured with more than 800 population doubling and without signs of senescence. Both cell lines were obtained from primary tumor tissues during colon cancer surgery. Cells grew rapidly with a doubling time of 36-39 h and a plating efficiency of 26-28%. These cells exhibited an epithelial morphology and expressed cytokeratin. Tumor developed in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice 4-6 wk after inoculated subcutaneously with the cultured cancer cells. Karyotypic analysis and comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) analysis in SHT-1 cells revealed a hypertriploid modal number of 76 with numerous numerical and structural abnormalities previously linked to colon cancer. In another cell line (SHH-1), CGH analysis revealed that -1p13 was the only cytogenetic anomaly.
4294251|Some morphologic and functional characteristics of an hepatic fetal human epithelial cell line (WRL-68 cells) were determined to validate the use of these cells as an in vitro hepatic model. WRL-68 cells have a morphologic structure similar to hepatocytes and hepatic primary cultures. They secrete alpha-feto protein and albumin and exhibit a cytokeratin pattern similar to other hepatic cultures. WRL-68 cells preserve the activity of some characteristic or specific liver enzymes or both used in clinical chemistry for the diagnosis of hepatic disorders, i.e. alanine amino transferase, aspartate amino transferase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase.
4295440| Apoptosis is a highly organized cellular process that is critical for maintaining glandular homeostasis. We have used primary rat salivary acinar cells from the parotid and submandibular glands to investigate the critical regulatory events involved in apoptosis. Caspase-3 activity, cleavage of caspase substrates, and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) fragmentation were assayed in cells treated with etoposide, a DNA-damaging agent, or brefeldin A (BFA), a Golgi toxin. Dose-response studies showed that the sensitivity of both cell types to etoposide and BFA was similar, with 150 M etoposide or 1.5 M BFA inducing maximal caspase activation. However, BFA induced a more robust activation of caspase and DNA fragmentation in both cell types. Similar results were observed when the caspase cleavage of poly(adenosine 5'-diphosphate ribose) polymerase and protein kinase C delta were analyzed by Western blot. Analysis of the kinetics of apoptosis showed that caspase-3 activation was maximal at 8 h of etoposide or BFA treatment in the parotid cells and at 8-18 h in the submandibular cells. A similar time course was observed when DNA fragmentation was assayed, although maximal DNA fragmentation in BFA-treated cells was two- to threefold higher than that observed in etoposide-treated cells. Despite slight kinetic differences, it would appear that the apoptotic cascade is very similar in both primary parotid and submandibular acinar cells. Although limited in their long-term stability in culture, the use of primary, nonimmortalized salivary acinar cultures will also permit the use of specific transgenic animals to further characterize the molecular events involved in the regulation of salivary gland acinar cell apoptosis. 
4295620|We have compared PC12 cell lines derived from different laboratories and the newly developed mouse pheochromocytoma (MPC) cell line. Morphologically, there were distinct differences in size, shape, adherence, and clumping behavior, which varied in response to different culture media, growth substrates, and nerve growth factor. Quantitative messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) analysis showed significant variability in the expression of the catecholaminergic biosynthetic enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), the noradrenaline transporter (NAT), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) between all lines examined. Of most significance were the increased levels of PNMT mRNA in the MPC cells, which were to 15-fold greater than in the PC12 cell lines grown under the same conditions in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium (P  0.05). Growth of MPC cells in Roswell Park Memorial Institute media induced a further significant increase in PNMT gene expression (P  0.05). Immunohistochemistry for TH, PNMT, and NAT was generally consistent with mRNA analysis, with the MPC cells demonstrating strong immunoreactivity for PNMT. The MPC cells showed the highest levels of desipramine-sensitive [
4294147|The purpose of this study was to characterize the stages in the development of thymidine-induced cell death. L-cells were characterized by both morphologic and quantitative techniques and evaluated at 24, 48, and 72 h of treatment. Cells first enlarged (stage I); about 50% of these enlarged cells then decreased in size with blebbing and compacting (stage II). This residual cell body transformed into a smooth eosinophilic hyaline body (stage III) by 72 h, many of which could be identified within the vacuolar system of viable cells. These changes were reflected in morphologic counts and Coulter sizing. Cell death (loss of labeled DNA) began in stage II and was most prominent in stage III. No cleavage of DNA into oligonucleosomal fragments was detected by agarose gel electrophoresis at any stage. The similarity of these changes to the complete spectrum of apoptosis in vivo is discussed.
4294181|
4295156|Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) feature prominently in retinal neovascular diseases. Although the role of VEGF in retinal angiogenesis is well established, the importance of bFGF in this process requires further clarification. This study was undertaken to investigate the responses of retinal capillary cells (endothelial cells and pericytes) to bFGF under hypoxic conditions, as well as the potentially synergistic effects of bFGF and VEGF on the proliferation and cord formation of retinal endothelial cells. Cell proliferation was determined by cell number and by
4294912|The frontier between the enamel organ and the dental papilla, the future dentino-enamel junction, undergoes coordinated modifications. The mineralization of the extracellular matrix starts within the predentine, which is a prerequisite for the formation of the first enamel crystallites in vivo. We investigated the dentino-enamel junction using the embryonic mouse incisor as a model. Our data showed that the notion of the dentino-enamel junction should not be restricted to the thin interface classically described. A temporo-spatial survey from the epithelio-mesenchymal junction to the dentino-enamel junction delineated a clear sequence of events characterized by the early deposition of electron-dense granules, followed by the appearance of patches of stippled material at the dentino-enamel junction. The first tiny enamel crystallites appeared in the vicinity of this material which presented a well-ordered alignment. The comparison of data obtained in vivo on 17-, 18-, 19-d-old embryonic incisors with those obtained in vitro using 15-d-old embryonic incisors cultured for 7 d emphasizes the relevance of this sequence. Helicoidal growing crystals were observed in cultured tooth germs but never in vivo.
4295291|Bone marrow stromal cell lines (TBR cell lines) established from temperature-sensitive Simian Virus 40 T-antigen gene transgenic mice exhibited myogenic, osteogenic, and adipogenic differentiation. The effect of oncostatin M (OSM) on such mesenchymal cell differentiation of marrow stromal cell lines was examined. One of those stromal cell lines, TBRB, differentiated into skeletal muscle, and its differentiation was stimulated by OSM, whereas differentiation of TBR10-1 into smooth muscle was inhibited by OSM. TBR31-2 is a bipotent progenitor for adipocytes and osteoblasts, and OSM stimulated osteogenic differentiation while inhibiting adipogenic differentiation. On the other hand, TBR cell lines exhibited various potentials for supporting hematopoiesis in culture. When hematopoietic progenitor cells were cocultured with OSM-stimulated stromal cell lines, TBR10-1 and TBR31-2 exhibited enhanced hematopoietic supportive activity. As responsible molecules for stromal cell dependent hematopoiesis, expression of stem cell factor (SCF) (a ligand of c-Kit), vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM-1) (a ligand of VLA-4), and secretion of interleukin (IL)-6 were increased by OSM. OSM affected mesenchymal cell differentiation and promoted the hematopoietic supportive activity of marrow stromal cell lines. As OSM production is induced by cytokines from hematopoietic cells, OSM may be a key factor in mutual regulation between hematopoietic cells and stromal cells in the bone marrow. OSM may play a role as a regulator in maintaining the hematopoietic microenvironment in marrow by coordinating mesenchymal differentiation.
4294786|In primary cultures, much evidence shows the existence of different subtypes of astrocytes that are not all identified. One methodology for studying these subtypes can be their cloning. The present investigation shows a method for a direct cloning of astrocytes without previous immortalization. Astrocytes from the cerebral cortex of newborn rats were cultured, purified by shaking, and harvested by trypsinization. One single astrocyte was plated in a small volume of a homemade cloning medium. After getting a colony, successive platings were made using larger and larger vessels, up to 60-mm-diameter petri dishes. Then, subcultures were made. The yield of the cloning was similar to that of common eukaryotic cell clonings. All along the cloning procedure, the cells were positively immunostained with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein antibodies. Cloned cells from some batches were spindle-shaped, looking like fibroblasts. Nevertheless, they were immunostained with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein antibodies, unlike true fibroblasts. These spindle-shaped astrocytes were compared to cells from an astrocytoma cell line that had the same shape. The growth pattern of the astrocytoma cells was different from that of the astrocytes cloned from the primary cultures. All the types of studied cells contained glycogen. On the basis of the criteria of morphology, of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunolabeling, and of glycogen synthesis, the cloned cells kept the characteristics of astrocytes. This study shows that it is perfectly possible to get clones of astrocytes from one astrocyte without previous immortalization, giving thus a convenient material for the study of astrocyte biology.
40602775|Retinoic acid (RA) is important for maintaining integrity of alveolar epithelial cells, but the mechanism has not been defined. We cultured type II pneumocytes at confluent, high cell density (10 cells/mm) and found that RA (10 M) inhibited thymidine incorporation to 60% of control, despite a dose-dependent increase in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) levels. However, at lower, subconfluent density (10 cells/mm), RA stimulated thymidine incorporation to 280% of control. EGF increased thymidine incorporation at concentrations as low as 0.1 ng/mL, but no further increase was observed at higher concentrations up to 100 ng/mL. In subconfluent cells co-treated with EGF (100 ng/mL) and increasing concentrations of RA (10 M-10 M RA), thymidine incorporation was significantly greater at all concentrations than RA alone, with greatest increases observed at 10 (422% of control) and 10 (470% of control) M RA. In summary, the effects of RA on thymidine incorporation are sensitive to changes in cell density. RA inhibits thymidine incorporation at high cell density and stimulates thymidine incorporation at low density. RA increases EGFRs in cultured type II pneumocytes, and EGF stimulates thymidine incorporation independent of the cultured cell density. These data may help to explain how RA mediates lung repair in vivo.
20616573|Neonatal human dermal fibroblasts cultured in vitro synthesize an organized and physically substantial three-dimensional extracellular matrix, without the addition of exogenous matrix components or synthetic scaffolds. De novo matrix synthesis proceeds in an orderly manner over a 21-d culture period and beyond. Analysis of the fibroblast phenotype, i.e., matrix synthesis by the fibroblasts, suggests that both serum and serum-free conditions are conducive to the production of a human tissue-engineered "dermal equivalent". We report that given the appropriate permissive environment, the fibroblasts establish and grow a tissue in vitro, which bears striking biochemical and physical resemblance to normal human dermis.
4295434|We have tested amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technology, in comparison with isoenzyme analysis, for the simultaneous detection of inter- and intraspecific cell line cross-contaminations (CCCs) in the cell line collection held at the Istituto Zooprofilattico della Lombardia e dell'Emilia Romagna. Isoenzyme analysis identified four cases of interspecific CCCs. In a single experiment, AFLP was able to identify the species of origin of all cell lines for which a reference genomic deoxyribonucleic acid was available and to detect five interspecific contaminations. Four CCCs confirmed data on isoenzymes, whereas the fifth CCC was detected in a species for which isoenzyme analysis was noninformative. In addition, AFLP was able to identify the putative source of the contaminations detected. The utility of the technology in the detection of intraspecific cell line contaminations depends on the number of cell lines that have to be distinguished in a specific species and on the availability of highly informative fingerprinting systems. In mice, a single AFLP primer pair produced 16 polymorphisms and distinguished all the 15 strains of mouse cell lines analyzed. In humans, 18 AFLPs identified 83 different profiles in the 159 cell lines analyzed. Amplified fragment length polymorphism can conveniently be applied for cell line fingerprinting in species for which hypervariable markers are not available. In species for which a highly informative multiplex of microsatellite markers is available, AFLP can still provide a useful and cheap tool for simultaneously testing inter- and intraspecific contaminations.
40602772|MSU-TnT4 (TnT4) cells, a newly established Trichoplusia ni cell line, was examined for the presence of a latent nodavirus, as had been described for another T. ni cell line, BTI-TN-5B1-4 (Hi5) cells. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction using nodavirus-specific primers did not detect virus genomic RNA in TnT4 cells. Transmission electron microscopy of recombinant baculovirusinfected TnT4 cells showed no evidence of latent nodavirus activation. Nodavirus particles were not detected in density gradients of baculovirus-infected TnT4 cell lysates or cell supernatants. The same methods confirmed the presence of a latent nodavirus in Hi5 cells.
4295491|Much of the research on fescue toxicosis has concentrated on evaluating animal response to grazing endophyte-infected (E+) versus endophyte-free tall fescue or the effects of single toxins such as ergonovine (EN), ergovaline (EV), or ergotamine (ET) on animal performance. Such approaches have eliminated the opportunity to test the possible additive, synergistic, or antagonistic interactions of one or more ergot alkaloids with the other ergot alkaloids found in E+ tall fescue. This study was conducted to determine the effects of simultaneous exposure of pairs of EN, EV, and ET on the kidney adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) system in vitro. Tests were performed using three separate rat kidney homogenates and were repeated four times at concentrations of 0, 75, and 200  M. Individually, EN, EV, and ET induced dose-dependent inhibitions of kidney
4294082|The role of thrombospondin on the adhesion of endothelial cells in primary culture was studied using a serum-free defined medium or thrombospondin-depleted fetal bovine serum. Under these conditions, only 6% of the cells adhered to gelatin-coated dishes, whereas cells adhering to gelatin in the presence of normal fetal bovine serum were considered as 100% adhesion. The percentage of cells attached to fibronectin or thrombospondin-coated dishes in thrombospondin-depleted serum was 66 and 32%, respectively. The addition of purified platelet thrombospondin to thrombospondin-depleted serum increased the adhesion of endothelial cells to gelatin and to thrombospondin, up to 32 and 59%, respectively, and restored the attachment to fibronectin to the same extent as that observed in the presence of normal serum. In contrast to the attachment, the spreading of the adhering cells was not further influenced by the addition of soluble thrombospondin. Subcultured cells did not require any protein for adhering to gelatin substrata. These observations indicate that thrombospondin plays a major role in the adhesion of endothelial cells in primary culture.
4294307|Little being known about factors necessary for insulin cell differentiation, we tested the chance observation that these cells were virtually absent from collagen gel cultures of embryonic avian pancreas in which the other pancreatic endocrine cells were numerous. Five-day dorsal buds stripped of their enveloping mesenchyme were embedded in gel and overlaid by a defined medium containing serum, then cultured for 7 days. Immunocytochemical evaluation showed a very low proportion of insulin cells. Substitution of the gel by a polyamino acid coating slightly increased the proportion. In an attempt to test for ability of insulin cell formation to recover, we transferred explants first cultured in collagen gel to polyamino-acid-coated dishes for a further 7 days. No improvement resulted. In controls grown for 14 days on a polyamino acid coating, insulin cells disappeared completely. We conclude that collagen gel does not support survival and differentiation of chick embryonic insulin cells and that the medium used is lacking in some essential factor(s). Determination of their identity should prove possible by exploitation of this model.
4295695|In the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT) angiotensin II (Ang II) modulates fluid and electrolyte transport through at least two pharmacologically distinct receptor subtypes:
20869526|Umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multipotent cells. They are able to differentiate into functional cells from not only mesoderm but also endoderm. Many researches showed that cells derived from fresh human UCB could transdifferentiate into insulin-secreting cells. In this study, transdifferentiating potential of cryopreserved human UCB-derived MSCs into insulin-secreting cell was investigated. Fresh human UCB was enriched the mononuclear cells by FicollPaque centrifugation. The mononuclear cell population was cryopreserved in cryomedium containing Iscove's modified Dulbecco's media (IMDM) with 10% DMSO at 196C for 1 yr. After thawing, mononuclear cells were cultured to isolate MSCs in medium IMDM with 20% FBS supplemented with growth factors. At the fifth passages, MSCs were confirmed by flow cytometry about expression of CD13, CD14, CD34, CD45, CD166, and HLA-DR markers; after that, they were induced to differentiate into adipocytes and osteoblasts. After inducing with specific medium for islet differentiation, there were many clusters of cell like islet at day 1428. Using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to analyze the expression of functional genes, the result showed that Nestin, Pdx-1, Ngn3, Ils-1, Pax6, Pax4, Nkx2.2, Nkx6.1, Glut-2, Insulin genes expressed. The results showed that MSCs derived from banked cord blood can differentiate into functional pancreatic islet-like cells in vitro. If human MSCs, especially MSCs from banked cord blood of diabetes patients themselves can be isolated, proliferated, differentiated into functional pancreatic islet-like cells, and transplanted back into them (autologous transplantation), their high-proliferation potency and rejection avoidance will provide one promising therapy for diabetes.
40205909|Embryonic stem (ES) cells have the potential to differentiate into various cell types of the three germ layers. They are therefore a useful cell source for transplantation and tissue engineering. In the present paper, we studied the influences of ascorbic acid (AA), dexamethasone (Dex), and 17 -estradiol (E) on the osteogenic differentiation of ES cells. Differentiation into the osteoblastic phenotype was demonstrated by the appearance of osteoblastic markers such as alkaline phosphatase (ALP), the transcription factor core binding factor alpha 1 (Cbfa1), and osteocalcin, which were detected by immunohistochemistry. Bone nodule formation, including the deposition of collagen fibrils and matrix mineralization, was studied by transmission electron microscopy. In all our cultures, a progressive upregulation of ALP activity was observed, followed by a decline after 21 d of culture. Cbfa1 was first detected after 14 d in culture and increased during the culture time. The addition of E resulted in a decrease in the formation of bone-like nodules in the embryoid bodies (EBs) compared with the EBs cultured in the presence of AA and AA supplemented with Dex. An increased osteocalcin concentration was observed in the EBs cultured with Dex and E compared with the EBs cultured in a control medium. EBs cultured in the presence of E resulted in a culture with a high amount of osteoblastlike cells not entrapped in bone-like nodules, creating the possibility to obtain a purified osteoblast population for bone tissue engineering.
40205801|Many mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of chronic enteropathies or host-pathogen interactions in canine intestine have not been elucidated so far. Next to the clinical and in vivo research tools, an in vitro model of canine intestinal cell culture would be very helpful for studies at the cellular level. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to establish and characterize a primary canine duodenal epithelial cell culture. Neonatal duodenum was disrupted with trypsin-ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and the mucosa scraped off and digested with collagenase and dispase. After centrifugation on a 2% sorbitol gradient, the cells were incubated at 37 C in OptiMEM supplemented with Primocin, epidermal growth factor, insulin, hydrocortisone, and 10% fetal calf serum (FCS). After 24 h, the FCS concentration was reduced to 2.5%, and the temperature decreased to 33 C. With this method, the cultures were growing to confluent monolayers within 5-6 d and remained viable for an average of 2 wk. Their epithelial nature was confirmed by electron microscopy and immunofluorescence staining using antibodies directed against specific cytokeratins, desmosomes, and tight junctions. The intestinal cells proliferated, as evidenced by immunolabeling with a Ki-67 antibody, and cryptal cell subpopulations could be identified. Furthermore, alkaline phosphatase and sucrase activity were detected.
4295699| Ulmus davidiana Planch (Ulmaceae) (UD) long has been known to have anti-inflammatory and protective effects on damaged tissue, inflammation, and bone among other functions. The herbal medicine also is being used in Oriental medicine to treat osteoporosis. In a preliminary study, treatment of osteoclasts containing long bone cells with the water extract of UD bark prevented the intracellular maturation of cathepsin K (cat K), and thus, it was considered that UD is a pro-drug of a potent bone-resorption inhibitor. To further clarify the role of UD in ossification, we investigated the effects of UD on the proliferation and differentiation of osteoblastic cell lines in vitro. In this study, we assessed the effects of UD on osteoblastic differentiation in nontransformed osteoblastic cells (MC3T3-E1) and rat bone marrow cells. UD enhanced alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and mineralization in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. This stimulatory effect of the UD was observed at relatively low doses (significant at 5-50 g/ml and maximal at 50 g/ml). Northern blot analysis showed that UD (100 g/ml) increases in bone morphogenic protein-2 as well as ALP mRNA concentrations in MC3T3-E1 cells. UD slightly increased in type I collagen mRNA abundance throughout the culture period, whereas it markedly inhibited the gene expression of collagenase-1 between days 15 and 20 of culture. These results indicate that UD has anabolic effects on bone through the promotion of osteoblastic differentiation, suggesting that it could be used for the treatment of common metabolic bone diseases such as osteoporosis. 
4295040|We constructed a recombinant adenovirus vector that contained the origin-defective SV40 early gene, coding temperature-sensitive T antigen. This vector transferred the SV40 early gene into human epidermal keratinocytes with high efficiency. T antigen conferred the ability of keratinocytes to grow with limited differentiation in the presence of serum and high calcium concentration at the permissive temperature (
4294166|Breast carcinomas commonly contain varying amounts of fibrous stroma and infiltrates of lymphoid cells. Dickson and Lippman (Endocrine Rev., 8,29, 1987) have proposed a model of growth regulation in breast cancer involving interactions between stroma and carcinoma cells. This model is based on results obtained with established cell lines. In an effort to bring experimentation closer to the clinical situation we have used short-term primary cultures from human breast cancer in co-cultures with lymphocytes and fibroblasts. Cultures were established in a chemically defined serum-free medium (CDM3). Cell types were characterized on the basis of live morphology and expression of vimentin and keratin 18. A semi-quantitative system was developed for measuring growth of epithelial cells, thus defining two indices: maximal growth index (GI-max) and growth rate (GR). Moderate-to-good growth was obtained from 34 out of 46 carcinoma samples (74%) and 30 out of 38 parallel samples of non-cancerous tissue (79%). Success in culture was negatively correlated with the amount of hard stroma but unrelated to age of patient or clinical status. Malignant epithelium was clearly identified in 12 out of 34 (35%) carcinoma samples. For the evaluation of responses of epithelial cells in co-cultures, the cultures from each sample were ranked according to GI-max. From 20 co-culture experiments using carcinoma samples, the following results were obtained: the highest GI-max was found in 11 of the co-cultures with lymphocytes; in six of the co-cultures with fibroblasts; in one case in the control culture without partner cells; and in two experiments there was no difference between controls and co-cultures. The corresponding values for non-cancerous samples were: 5 out of 17, 2/17, 2/17, and 8/17. Control experiments performed without partner cells confirmed that these differences in GI-max between cultures were beyond random variations. Four samples displayed particularly vigorous responses to lymphocytes, and two samples responded extensively to fibroblasts. In four of these six samples cancer cells proliferated. We conclude that it is feasible to use primary cultures of breast carcinomas for experimentation. Fibroblasts did not have very marked effects on epithelial cell growth, but, contrary to expectation, there was a clear tendency for lymphocytes to stimulate growth.
20869539|An epithelial cell line, referred to as A163, was established from breast carcinoma derived from a patient with a strong family history of breast cancer but no known breast cancer susceptibility mutation. A163 was propagated in a serum-free culture medium including the epidermal growth factor. Immunophenotypic characterization demonstrated a mixed luminal and basal-like phenotype. When epidermal growth factor was excluded from the culture medium, A163 entered a quiescent period followed by a period of increased cell proliferation in a subpopulation of the cells. The epidermal growth factor-independent sub-population retained the basal-like phenotype of the parental cell line. Karyotype and fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis showed an amplification of epidermal growth factor receptor on 7q in A163-S1 only, resulting in high expression of total and phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor. The A163-S1 sub-line piles up in culture, indicating a loss of contact inhibition. When grown on transwell filters, A163 shows basal expression of P63 and cytokeratin 14, whereas A163-S1 expresses P63 ubiquitously, and has lost the basal specific expression of cytokeratin 14, indicating a loss of polarity. Furthermore, when cultured in reconstituted basement membrane matrix, A163 form polarized normal like acini. In contrast, A163-S1 form large disorganized structures with lack of polarity. These cell lines may prove useful to understand molecular changes in breast cancer progression, in particular basal-like breast cancer subtype with bad prognosis and no current treatment options.
23279456|Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are adult pluripotent cells that are considered to be an attractive cell type for therapy models and for nuclear transfer transgenesis. To date, MSCs from various species have been studied, but only a limited amount of information regarding dairy goat MSCs (gMSCs) is available. The objectives of this study were to isolate, induce the multilineage mesenchymal differentiation, and investigate the gene modification efficiency of gMSCs, thereby initiating further research on these cells. The gMSCs isolated from bone marrow grew, attached to plastic with a typical fibroblast-like morphology, and expressed the mesenchymal surface marker CD44, CD29, CD90, and CD166, but not the hematopoietic marker CD45. Furthermore, the gMSCs expressed the transcription factors Oct-4 and Nanog, which have been shown to be critical for stem cell self-renewal and pluripotency. The multilineage differentiation potential of gMSCs was revealed by their ability to undergo adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation when exposed to specific inducing conditions. Transient transduction of gMSCs with a plasmid containing the GFP gene resulted in higher transfection rate compared with fetal fibroblasts (FFs). Furthermore, cell colonies with stable genetic modifications were obtained when gMSCs were transfected with a mammary-specific expression vector containing human lysosomal acid betaglucosidase gene (hGCase). In conclusion, these results demonstrated that typical mesenchymal stem cells were isolated from dairy goat bone marrow, possessed the characteristics of pluripotent stem cells, and had the potential of specific genetic modifications for gene therapy and producing transgenic goats.
4294626|To develop a strategy for extended primary culture of human hepatocytes, we placed human hepatocytes between two layers of collagen gel, called a "collagen gel sandwich." Maintenance of hepatocellular functions in this system was compared with that of identical hepatocyte preparations cultured on dry-collagen coated dishes or cocultured with rat liver epithelial cells. Human hepatocytes in a collagen gel sandwich (five separate cultures) survived for more than 4 wk, with the longest period of culture being 78 d. They maintained polygonal morphology with bile canaliculuslike structures and high levels of albumin secretion throughout the period of culture. In contrast, hepatocytes on dry-collagen became featureless, and albumin secretion could not be detected after 14 d of culture. This loss of albumin secretion was partially recovered by overlaying one layer of collagen gel. Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity, associated with cytochrome P450 1A2, was detected basally up to 29 d in collagen gel sandwich culture. These activities were induced four- to eightfold after induction with dibenz(a,h)anthracene. Cocultures also maintained basal activity up to 29 d. However, their inducibility was lower than that of hepatocytes in collagen gel sandwich. No ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity was detected in hepatocytes cultured on dry-collagen at 7 d. Thus, the collagen gel sandwich system preserves differentiated morphology and functions of human hepatocytes in primary culture for a prolonged period of time. This system is a promising model for studying human hepatocellular function, including protein synthesis and drug metabolism in vitro.
4295042| The purpose of this study is to identify optimal culture conditions to support the proliferation of human macrovascular endothelial cells. Two cell lines were employed: human saphenous vein endothelial cells (HSVEC) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). The influence of basal nutrient media (14 types), fetal bovine serum (FBS), and mitogens (three types) were investigated in relation to cell proliferation. Additionally, a variety of extracellular matrix (ECM) substrate-coated culture dishes were also tested. The most effective nutrient medium in augmenting cell proliferation was MCDB 131. Compared to the more commonly used M199 medium, MCDB 131 resulted in a 2.3-fold increase in cell proliferation. Media containing 20% FBS increased cell proliferation 7.5-fold compared to serum-free media. Among the mitogens tested, heparin (50 g/ml) and endothelial cell growth supplement (ECGS) (50 g/ml) significantly improved cell proliferation. Epithelial growth factor (EGF) provided no improvement in cell proliferation. There were no statistical differences in cell proliferation or morphology when endothelial cells were grown on uncoated culture plates compared to plates coated with ECM proteins: fibronectin, laminin, gelatin, or collagen types I and IV. The culture environment yielding maximal HSVEC and HUVEC proliferation is MCDB 131 nutrient medium supplemented with 2 mM glutamine, 20% FBS, 50 g/ml heparin, and 50 g/ml ECGS. The ECM substrate-coated culture dishes offer no advantage. 
4294605|MIP-101 is a poorly differentiated human colon carcinoma cell line established from ascites that produces minimal amounts of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), a 180 kDa glycoprotein tumor marker, and nonspecific cross-reacting antigen (NCA), a related protein that has 50 and 90 kDa isoforms, in monolayer culture. However, MIP-101 produces CEA when implanted into the peritoneum of nude mice but not when implanted into subcutaneous tissue. We tested whether three-dimensional (3D) growth was a sufficient stimulus to produce CEA and NCA 50/90 in MIP-101 cells, because cells grow in 3D in vivo rather than in two-dimensions (2D) as occurs in monolayer cultures. To do this, MIP-101 cells were cultured on microcarrier beads in 3D cultures, either in static cultures as nonadherent aggregates or under dynamic conditions in a NASA-designed low shear stress bioreactor. MIP-101 cells proliferated well under all three conditions and increased CEA and NCA production three- to four-fold when grown in 3D cultures compared to MIP-101 cells growing logarithmically in monolayers. These results suggest that 3D growth in vitro simulates tumor function in vivo and that 3D growth by itself may enhance production of molecules that are associated with the metastatic process.
4295432|Among the first nutrients to be linked to cancer were methyl group containing nutrients including methionine. Methionine and its metabolic derivatives are essential components in several indispensable biological reactions including protein synthesis, polyamine synthesis, and many transmethylation reactions. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which methionine excess affects the proliferation and gene expression of the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7. Cells were first grown in control medium; the medium was then replaced with either control or methionine-supplemented treatment media. We found that 5 and 10 g/L methionine significantly suppressed cell growth on day 1, and no further growth was detected after 3 d of treatment. Cell proliferation in the methionine treated group was significantly lower than that of the control group. Northern analysis revealed that expression of p53 in methionine-treated MCF-7 cells was approximately 70% lower than that of control cells. p53 is a key cell cycle regulatory protein that has been implicated in tumorigenesis and cancer progression. Alteration of the p53 tumor suppressor gene is the most common genetic change found in a wide variety of malignancies, including cancer. This study shows that excess methionine (5 g/ L) inhibited proliferation of MCF-7 breast cancer cells, and down regulation of p53 is correlated with this inhibition. These findings may aid in the development of nutritional strategies for breast cancer therapy.
20869521|A new cell line, Asian sea bass brain (ASBB), was derived from the brain tissue of Asian sea bass Lates calcarifer. This cell line was maintained in Leibovitz L-15 media supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The ASBB cell line was subcultured more than 60 times over a period of 15 mo. The ASBB cell line consists predominantly of fibroblastic-like cells and was able to grow at temperatures between 20C and 30C with an optimum temperature of 25C. The growth rate of these cells increased as the proportion of FBS increased from 2% to 20% at 25C with optimum growth at the concentrations of 10% or 15% FBS. Polymerase chain reaction products were obtained from ASBB cells and tissues of sea bass with primer sets of microsatellite markers of sea bass. An isolate of piscine nodavirus from juveniles of marine fish species tested positive by IQ2000 kit for viral nervous necrosis detection and was examined for its infectivity to a fish cell line of ASBB. A marine fish betanodavirus was tested to determine the susceptibility of this new cell line in comparison with commercial highly permissive SSN-1 cells. The ASBB cell line was found to be susceptible to nodavirus (RGNNV genotype), and the infection was confirmed by comparison cytopathic effect (CPE) with commercial SSN-1 and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. A nodavirus was further elucidated by electron microscopy, and the virus tested was shown to induce CPE on ASBB cells with significant high titer. This suggests that the ASBB cell line has good potential for the isolation of fish viruses.
20172203|We report on the isolation and propagation of endothelial cells from the mouse embryonic yolk sac, the earliest site of blood vessel development, and on the advantages of a hypervascular transgenic mouse source of these cells. These transgenic mice express multiple copies of an activated allele of the human fps/fes proto-oncogene and display hypervascularity progressing to multifocal hemangiomas. This phenotype suggested a role of the fps/fes proto-oncogene in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis and led us to investigate the growth characteristics of yolk-sac-derived endothelial cells from transgenic fps/fes embryos. We have established eight independent cell clones from a mixture of transgenic and control yolk sacs from Day 12 embryos. Southern blot hybridization analysis showed all eight clones to be derived from transgenic cells, suggesting a growth advantage of cells carrying the activated fps/fes gene. A cell line, Clone 166 (C166), established from one of these clones, was more fully characterized. C166 exhibits normal endothelial characteristics, such as rearrangement into tubelike structures when placed on Matrigel, expression of angiotensin converting enzyme, retention of cobblestone morphology at confluence, and the presence of cell surface receptors for acetylated low density lipoprotein. The cells constitutively express murine endothelial cell adhesion molecule VCAM-1 and the vascular addressin identified by antibody MECA-99. As expected, the cell line expresses high levels of the cytoplasmic protein-tyrosine kinase encoded by the fps/fes protooncogene. The clone we have described as well as other endothelial cell lines that we have established from the mouse embryonic yolk sac should prove useful for the study of endothelial cell differentiation and for the determination of the mechanisms underlying the establishment of organ-specific endothelial cell heterogeneity.
4295396| Recent studies have indicated that maternal skeletal metabolism undergoes significant changes during gestation. The agents that are responsible for eliciting these changes in bone turnover during pregnancy have yet to be defined. We therefore sought to investigate whether chaperonin 10 (Cpn10), a homolog of early-pregnancy factor, or human placental lactogen (PL) were capable of influencing the synthesis of type I collagen by human osteoblasts in vitro. Both Cpn10 and PL are major components of the maternal circulation during pregnancy, but how they might contribute to bone metabolism has not been determined. Type I collagen represents the most abundant component of bone tissue, accounting for approximately 90% of the organic compartment. Both Cpn10 and PL were capable of stimulating the synthesis of type I collagen by human osteoblasts in culture. The inclusion of 17-estradiol or prolactin, however, failed to influence the ability of cells to mobilize type I collagen. These novel findings support a role for PL and Cpn10 in the metabolism of bone tissue during pregnancy. Maternal bone collagen metabolism is clearly an important event during pregnancy, and the identification of the factors responsible will aid our understanding of the regulation of skeletal metabolism during gestation. 
4294389|We have established and characterized a new glioblastoma cell line, termed GT9, from a biopsy sample of a female adult patient with glioblastoma multiforme. The line has now undergone over 60 passages and has been successfully cultured after cryopreservation. Immunofluorescence analyses with a panel of monoclonal antibodies were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, and negative for neurofilament, galactocerebroside, and fibronectin, a pattern typical of glial cells. Based on a tetraploid, the composite karyotype of GT9 cells included the loss of chromosome 10, gain of chromosome 7, and the presence of double minute chromosomes, three of the most common karyotypic abnormalities in glioblastoma. Sequence analysis of p53 cDNA revealed a homozygous double mutation at codon 249 (commonly mutated in aflatoxin-associated hepatocellular carcinoma) and codon 250. Moreover, there was a complete absence of wild-type p53. However, unlike the majority of human glioblastomas previously described, the expression of platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF-B), a potent mitogenic autocrine factor, was low in GT9 cells. The expression and phosphorylation of c-Jun and Jun-B, downstream mediators of the PDGF pathway, were also low. Thus, deregulation of the PDGF pathway does not appear to be involved in the pathogenesis of the GT9 glioblastoma. Conversely, Jun-D, a negative regulator of cell growth, was also low. In addition, Phosphorylated Egr-1, a recently reported suppressor of PDGF-B/v sis-transformed cells, was also low, suggesting that the lack of activation of the PDGF pathway was not due to these suppressive mechanisms. The circumstance of a weak or inactive PDGF-B autocrine mechanism in human glioblastoma paired with a homozygously altered p53 suggests that the loss of suppressor function of p53 may be a major contribution to the transformed phenotype of these cells.
4294894|The present study further improved the serum-free method of culturing rat keratinocytes. To obtain the best growth of rat keratinocytes, we modified our previous serum-free medium (MCDB153 based medium), particularly the amounts of glucose and sodium chloride (NaCl). Titration experiments showed the optimal concentration to be 0.8 mM for glucose and 100 mM for NaCl. This modification eliminated the requirement for albumin, which had been essential for colony formation when our previous medium was used. Titration of glucose and NaCl, followed by adjustment of essential amino acids and growth factors, produced a new formulation. More satisfactory and better growth was achieved with the new medium than with the previous medium. Accumulation of monoalkyldiacylglycerol (MADAG) was consistently noted in this study, representing the unusual lipid profile. A tendency toward normalization was, however, noted with the neutral lipid profile of keratinocytes cultivated in the new medium: lower production of MADAG was obtained with the new formulation, rather than the previous one.
4294361|A colony stimulating factor-1-dependent macrophage cell line, I-9.5, originally derived from a BALB/c splenic macrophage colony, was maintained in culture and examined for the expression of certain properties key to its innate immune function. Chemotaxis, phagocytosis, and superoxide release were assessed in this cell line and compared to either freshly isolated elicited murine peritoneal or splenic macrophages from BALB/c mice. Three separate experiments indicated that I-9.5 displayed comparable phagocytosis of
4294646|To study the role of cell shape in control of hepatocyte function, we have developed a system that can quantitatively control the spreading of cultured rat hepatocytes using poly[2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate]. When hepatocytes were cultured in a dish coated with high concentration of poly[2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate] solution, formation of stress fibers were suppressed and they continued to have a compact shape. In the compact-shaped hepatocytes, the ability to induce tyrosine aminotransferase with dexamethasone remained high for longer periods of time, as compared to the hepatocytes that spread following culture in the polystyrene dish. Conversely, the hepatocytes showed more active DNA synthesis when they assumed a flat shape as a result of spreading. When the hepatocytes that had spread following long-term culture in the polystyrene dishes were treated with cytochalasin to induce depolymerization of F-actin, the ability of the cells to induce tyrosine aminotransferase upon stimulation with dexamethasone improved markedly. This effect was not altered by treatment with actinomycin D but was completely suppressed by cycloheximide, suggesting that microfilaments are involved in the posttranscriptional process of tyrosine aminotransferase induction. Thus, there is a possibility that F-actin rather than cell shape might regulate cellular function in primary cultured hepatocytes.
4295583|Bombyxin stimulated proliferation of cultured midgut stem cells that were derived from two noctuiid moth larvae, Heliothis virescens and Mamestra brassicae. Bombyxin exhibited the highest activity at
41318686|The purpose of this study is to develop a novel method for the cryopreservation and efficient post-thaw recovery of individual or small numbers of human spermatozoa. Spermatozoa equilibrated in cryoprotectant buffer were injected with an intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) needle into a droplet of cryoprotectant on a homemade cryoleaf. The droplet was of cryoprotectant and seminal plasma at a ratio of 1: 1. The sperm-loaded cryoleaf was slowly lowered over and stored in liquid nitrogen. Spermatozoa were thawed in a 37 C oil bath without dilution and centrifugation. To test the fertilizing ability of these spermatozoa, the recovered spermatozoa were injected by ICSI into 1-d-old or in vitro-matured human oocytes. Fresh spermatozoa from the same semen samples served as controls. The trials were performed in two separate experiments. In the first set of experiments, 92 spermatozoa were thawed and carefully investigated. The spermatozoa from percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration had a motility recovery of 92.9% (13/14); ejaculated spermatozoa had a motility recovery of 61.5% (48/78), and only 1.3% (1/78) was lost. Together in the first and second set of experiments, the fertilization rates for the fresh and frozen-thawed spermatozoa were 67.6% (25/37) and 60.6% (40/66), respectively (P= 0.052). The mean embryo cleavage rates in the fresh and frozen-thawed groups were 88% (22/25) and 85% (34/40), respectively (P= 0.990). This cryopreservation method for individual or small numbers of human spermatozoa was efficient and simple. These findings make this method a promising technique for the clinical application of ejaculated sperm from oligozoospermic patients.
4295315|Anchorage independence is an important hallmark of the transformation that correlates with tumorigenicity. We have isolated a variant clone of HT1080 human fibrosarcoma cells (cl-2) that is specifically defective in anchorage-independent growth. Interestingly, 10
4294750| Transcriptional regulation of smooth muscle cell (SMC) differentiation is a rapidly growing area of interest that has relevance for understanding intimai disease. Despite the wealth of data accumulating in vitro, however, no study has compared the cell-specific marker profile, transfectability, promoter activity, and growth characteristics among several SMC culture systems. Accordingly, we performed a comprehensive analysis of the marker profile, growth properties, transfectability, and SMC promoter activity in four rat SMC lines (A7r5, adult and pup aortic, and PAC1). Despite alterations in chromosomal number and structure, A7r5, adult aortic, and PAC1 cells express all SMC markers studied including SM -actin, SM calponin, SM22, tropoelastin, and to a lesser extent, SM myosin heavy chain (SMMHC). In contrast, pup aortic cells express very low or undetectable levels of all the above markers except tropoelastin. Adult aortic, pup, and PAC1 cells display similar growth curves and levels of proto-oncogene transcripts, whereas those in the A7r5 line are comparatively less. All cell lines studied except pup cells show expression of SMC differentiation genes during active growth, indicating that growth and differentiation are not mutually exclusive in cultured smooth muscle. Transfection studies reveal dramatic differences in DNA uptake and SMC-restricted promoter activity between cell lines. Collectively, these results provide detailed information relating to SMC molecular biology in culture that should facilitate the selection of a cell line for studying the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying SMC differentiation. 
4295289| The expression of transforming growth factor-2 (TGF-2) appears to play a strong role in the establishment and progression of glial tumors. In particular, elevated expression of TGF-2 appears to be responsible for the impaired cell-mediated immunity often observed in patients with a glioblastoma. This study examined the regulation of the TGF-2 at the transcriptional level in the U87MG glioblastoma cell line. We demonstrate that a cAMP response element/activating transcription factor (CRE/ATF) site and an E-box motif located just upstream of the transcription start site are essential for the transcription of the TGF-2 gene in U87MG cells. Gel mobility analysis determined that activating transcription factor-1, and possibly cAMP-responsive element binding protein, binds to the CRE/ATF site, and upsteam stimulatory factor (USF) 1 and USF2 bind to the E-box motif. Interestingly, expression of a dominant negative USF protein down-regulates TGF-2 activity by 80-95% in glioblastoma cells. We conclude that the binding of transcription factors, in particular the USF proteins, to the TGF-2 promoter is essential for its expression and possibly its up-regulation in glioblastomas. 
41318682|Although it has been suggested that the transcription of phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPx), an essential antioxidant selenoenzyme, may be affected by the estrogen state in mammals, the direct mechanism underlying the regulation of the PHGPx gene by estrogens in mammalian tissues remains to be clearly elucidated. In this study, we evaluated the expression of the PHGPx mRNA in cultured mouse fetuses (embryonic days 8.5-10.5) exposed to 17-estradiol (E; 0.1, 1, 10, 100, and 1,000 ng/ml); estrogen receptor (ER) agonists [propyl pyrazole triol (PPT, an ER -selective ligand, 1 1/m1) and diarylpropionitrile (DPN, an ER -selective ligand, 1 l/ml)]; and/or ER antagonist [ICI 182,780 (ICI, 1 l/ml)] using a whole embryo culture system. E-alone treatment significantly stimulated the expressions of both ER and ER mRNAs in all the cultured fetuses (p<0.05), although the ER mRNA levels were higher than ER mRNA. PHGPx mRNA expression was significantly increased in all the fetuses treated with E (1-1,000 ng/ml), PPT, and DPN (p<0.05). Furthermore, pretreatment with ICI completely blocked the E-induced PHGPx mRNA expression in the fetuses. In addition, the mRNA levels of cytosolic GPx, the other intracellular antioxidant selenoenzyme, did not differ significantly from the controls by an exposure to those agents. These results suggest that the PHGPx gene is regulated via an estrogen and ER signal pathway in the cultured mouse fetus.
4295378|Wolbachia infecting the small brown planthopper, Laodelphax striatellus, were successfully maintained and cultivated in two insect and one mammalian cell lines. The bacteria with the planthopper ovary were introduced into the flasks with the cultures of the cell lines. The Wolbachia proliferated in mosquito (Aedes albopictus) and lepidopteran (Heliothis zea) cell lines and in the mouse cell line, L929. Proliferation of Wolbachia was confirmed by electron microscopy and quantitative polymerase chain reaction. This simple method for the cultivation of Wolbachia was applicable to other strains of Wolbachia, such as the one found in the lepidopteran eggs, and should facilitate fundamental and applied studies of this important group of microorganisms.
40205907|The Aedes albopictus Aa23 cell line, which is persistently infected with Wolbachia pipientis strain wAlbB, tends to grow as aggregated clusters of cells that are difficult to disperse for conventional quantification based on cell number. We used A. albopictus C7-10 cells to validate conversion of methylthiazole tetrazolium (MTT) to a colored formazan product with respect to incubation time, cell number over a 40-fold range, and metabolic activity as cells enter stationary phase. Using this assay, we showed that the doubling time of Aa23 cells increases from about 45 h early after plating to more than 70 h as the cells reach stationary levels. Growth of Aa23 cells proceeds at similar rates in the presence or absence of tetracycline concentrations that decrease the abundance of Wolbachia. Insofar as the MTT assay reflects mitochondrial function, our results indicate that, in Aa23 cells, abundance of intracellular Wolbachia has no measurable effect on mitochondrial activity in the presence of tetracycline.
4295644|Zymography of concentrated conditioned medium (CM) from protein-free NSO myeloma cell cultures showed that this cell line produced and released/secreted several proteases. Two caseinolytic activities at 45-50 and 90 kDa were identified as aspartic acid proteases, and at least two cathepsins of the papain-like cysteine protease family with molecular masses of 30-35 kDa were found by gelatin zymography. One of these cathepsins was identified as cathepsin L by using an enzyme assay exploiting the substrate Z-Phe-Arg-AMC and the inhibitor Z-Phe-Tyr-t(Bu)-DMK. The aspartic acid and cysteine proteases were active only at acidic pH and are therefore not a potential risk for degrading the product or affecting cell growth during culture. Secreted proforms of cathepsins may, however, possess mitogenic functions, but addition of anti-procathepsin L antibodies to NSO cultures did not influence proliferation. The recombinant antibody product was not degraded in cell-free CM incubated at pH 7, but when the pH was decreased to 3.5-4, the aspartic acid proteases degraded the product. Gelatin zymography also revealed the presence of several serine proteases in NSO CM, one at 85 kDa and two at 50 kDa, with pH optima close to culture pH. Addition of the serine protease inhibitor aprotinin significantly increased the specific proliferation rate as compared to the control. In addition to these data, N-terminal amino acid sequencing identified two proteins in NSO CM as the protease inhibitors secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor and cystatin C.
4295431| Three continuous cell lines, NIAS-PRC-819A, NIAS-PRC-819B, and NIAS-PRC-819C, were established from the pupal ovaries of the common white, Pieris rapae crucivora Boisduval (Insecta, Lepidoptera, Pieridae). The primary culture was initiated as explant cultures with ovariole fragments in MGM-464 medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum at 25 C. About 6 mo after the culture was set up, the first subculture was prepared. Thereafter, cells were subcultured with decreasing passage intervals, resulting in a cell population that multiplied continuously. The karyotypes of these cell lines were similar to each other, and the majority of the cells showed about 100 microchromosomes. The population-doubling times of these cell lines were 3 to 7 d. The cell lines were susceptible to a microsporidia, Nosema bombycis. Immunodiffusion experiments proved that these cell lines derived from the common white and not from other cell lines by contamination. 
4295099| Human E-cadherin is a homophilic cell adhesion molecule and its expression is well preserved in normal human hepatocytes; a decrease in its expression has been observed in poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma cells. We examined the alteration of E-cadherin and catenin expressions caused by differentiation inducers in human hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines, HGC-T and HCC-M, were cultured with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), dexamethasone (DEX), sodium butyrate, and interferon-. E-cadherin expression was only up-regulated by butyrate and interferon- (IFN-) in both cell lines, studied by means of fluorescence immunostaining and flow cytometry. The localization of E-cadherin staining was shown at their cell membrane. According to the increase in E-cadherin expression, -catenin expression appeared at the cell membrane of both cell lines when treated with butyrate and IFN-. Such an appearance was not observed when cells were treated with ATRA and DEX. Western blotting showed that - and -catenin expression was not changed, while only the expression of -catenin increased. -Catenin oncogenic activation as a result of amino acid substitutions or interstitial deletions within or including parts of exon 3, which has been demonstrated recently, was not detected in these cell lines by direct deoxyribonucleic acid sequencing. These results suggest that the expression and interaction between E-cadherin and wild-type -catenin are potentially modulated by butyrate and IFN-, and that these two agents are potent inhibitors of hepatocellular carcinoma cell invasion and metastasis. 
4294771| Analysis of the molecular mechanisms involved in the differentiation and formation of the characteristic three-dimensional structures of the developing mammary gland of the major milk-producing livestock (ducts, end buds, and alveoli) requires in vitro model cell cultures. The few cell lines that have been established from dairy animals do not fully reproduce the entire program of mammary differentiation. Here we present the initial characterization of a unique mammary epithelial cell line derived spontaneously from midpregnant sheep (NISH). These cells form in vitro functional structures resembling ducts, lateral buds, and alveoli that secrete -lactoglobulin (BLG) in an ECM (extracellular matrix)-dependent manner. Interestingly, the presence of growth hormone dramatically increased BLG secretion from NISH cells cultured on ECM. It appears that GH is required not only to establish the structural organization but also is continuously needed to maintain BLG expression. Stable transfection of NISH cells with BLG/Human Serum Albumin (HSA) hybrid gene constructs revealed that the relative level of expression was comparable to the in vivo secretion of HSA in transgenic mice carrying these gene sequences. No expression could be detected in cells transfected with hybrid genes carrying either HSA cDNA or the entire HSA gene, and HSA expression was dependent on the presence of intronic sequences. These results demonstrate that NISH cells may prove a useful tool for studying the differentiation and organogenesis of mammary epithelial cells under defined culture conditions. Furthermore, transfected NISH cells may be an alternative for the transgenic mouse model in evaluating the potential of gene constructs to be efficiently expressed in the mammary gland of transgenic farm animals. 
20869553|A serum-free, feeder cell-dependent, selective culture system for the long-term culture of porcine hepatocytes or cholangiocytes was developed. Liver cells were isolated from 1-wk-old pigs or young adult pigs (25 and 63 kg live weight) and were placed in primary culture on feeder cell layers of mitotically blocked mouse fibroblasts. In serum-free medium containing 1% DMSO and 1 M dexamethasone, confluent monolayers of hepatocytes formed and could be maintained for several wk. Light and electron microscopic analysis showed hepatocytes with in vivo-like morphology, and many hepatocytes were sandwiched between the feeder cells. When isolated liver cells were cultured in medium without dexamethasone but with 0.5% DMSO, monolayers of cholangiocytes formed that subsequently self-organized into networks of multicellular ductal structures, and whose cells had monocilia projecting into the lumen of the duct. Gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) was expressed by the cholangiocytes at their apical membranes, i.e., at the inner surface of the ducts. Cellular GGT activity increased concomitantly with the development of ductal structures. Cytochrome P-450 was determined in microsomes following addition of metyrapone to the cultures. In vivo-like levels of P-450s were found in hepatocyte monolayers while levels of P-450 were markedly reduced in cholangiocyte monolayers. Serum protein secretion in conditioned media was analyzed by Western blot and indicated that albumin, transferrin, and haptoglobin levels were maintained in hepatocytes while albumin and haptoglobin declined over time in cholangiocytes. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that serum protein mRNA levels were significantly elevated in the hepatocytes monolayers in comparison to the bile ductule-containing monolayers. Further, mRNAs specific to cholangiocyte differentiation and function were significantly elevated in bile ductule monolayers in comparison to hepatocyte monolayers. The results demonstrate an in vitro model for the study of either porcine hepatocytes or cholangiocytes with in vivo-like morphology and function.
4295637|Injuries to the avascular region of the meniscus occur frequently and may be difficult to repair. This study was designed to determine whether growth factors could diffuse from a collagen sponge or a collagen gel into meniscal tissue and stimulate healing of defects using an in vitro model. The diffusion of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) from the collagen carriers into the medium was rapid with approximately 50% being released from the collagen sponge within the first hour. After 5 d of incubation, 8% of the PDGF was present in the meniscus, 11% in the collagen sponge, and 62% had been released into the medium. Similar results were obtained when a collagen gel was used as a carrier. Histological evaluation of the meniscal explants after 2 wk in culture revealed extensive proteoglycan staining in the areas surrounding defects treated with either hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) or PDGF compared with controls without growth factor. The HGF-PDGF treatment resulted in alignment and migration of meniscal cells toward the defect, which was not observed in untreated controls. At 3-7 d, increased number of cells were observed in defects treated with collagen gels (but not the sponge) with PDGF-HGF. At 4 wk, combined HGF-PDGF treatment resulted in the formation of tissue with birefringence by polarized microscopy, suggestive of organized collagen. The data suggest that use of specific PDGF-HGF may enhance the repair of meniscal injuries.
20172154| A new class of retroviral vector pseudotypes have an expanded host species range and can be concentrated to high titers by ultracentrifugation. These pantropic vectors contain the genome of the murine leukemia virus-based vectors and the envelope protein of vesicular stomatitis virus substituted for the amphotropic envelope protein. We tested (a) the ability of pseudotyped (pantropic) and unmodified (amphotropic) vectors to stably infect three different Xenopus laevis cell lines, including one derived from the embryonic retina; and (b) the ability of the concentrated pseudotyped virus to infect embryos and to mediate foreign gene expression in the embryonic CNS. Expression of the neomycin phosphotransferase gene and single copy integration of the provirus into the genome of the cell lines was demonstrated. Surprisingly, the amphotropic and pantropic vectors generated neomycin-resistant clones with similar efficiency. PCR amplification of genomic DNA from single stage 10, 20, and 25 embryos microinjected in the blastocoel or neural tube cavities with concentrated pantropic vector (10 cfu/ml) revealed proviral DNA. Microinjection of a concentrated pantropic vector containing the coding sequence for the -galactosidase gene into the neural tube lumen of 24-h embryos yielded -galactosidase expressing cells in the brain. Thus, retroviral vectors provide an additional approach to existing strategies for gene transfer in Xenopus embryos and cell lines. 
40602793|Bladder cancer (BC) is the fourth most common cancer in the USA. In Brazil, BC represents 3% of the total existing carcinomas in the population and represents the second highest incidence among urological tumors. The majority of bladder cancer cell lines available were derived from Caucasians and established in the seventies or eighties. Thus, neoplasia development in these cells likely occurred in environment conditions vastly different than today. In the present study, we report the establishment and characterization of three Brazilian bladder cancer cell lines (BexBra1, BexBra2, and BexBra4). These cell lines may be helpful for dissecting the genetic and epigenetic aspects that trigger the progression of BC. Moreover, the development of a Brazilian representative of the disease will allow us to investigate the potential inter-racial differences of malignancy-associated phenotypes in bladder cancer.
4295355|A repertoire of hormonal signals including estrogen regulate the growth, differentiation, and functioning of diverse target tissues, including the ovary, the mammary gland, and skeletal tissue. A serum-free culture system derived from rabbit endometrium explants has been devised and is reported here to explore estrogen action in vitro. The system involves aseptically harvesting the uterus from a virgin rabbit, dissecting the endometrium, explanting it into
40205947|The use of animal cell cultures as tools for studying the microsporidia of insects and mammals is briefly reviewed, along with an in depth review of the literature on using fish cell cultures to study the microsporidia of fish. Fish cell cultures have been used less often but have had some success. Very short-term primary cultures have been used to show how microsporidia spores can modulate the activities of phagocytes. The most successful microsporidia/fish cell culture system has been relatively long-term primary cultures of salmonid leukocytes for culturing Nucleospora salmonis. Surprisingly, this system can also support the development of Enterocytozoon bienusi, which is of mammalian origin. Some modest success has been achieved in growing Pseudoloma neurophilia on several different fish cell lines. The eel cell line, EP-1, appears to be the only published example of any fish cell line being permanently infected with microsporidia, in this case Hetewsporis anguillarum. These cell culture approaches promise to be valuable in understanding and treating microsporidia infections in fish, which are increasingly of economic importance.
23481703|Silymarin, a mixture of bioactive flavonolignans from the milk thistle (Silybum marianum), is traditionally used in herbal medicine to defend against various hepatotoxic agents. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the protective effect of silymarin against carbon tetrachloride (CCl 4 )-induced liver injury in fish. Common carp, with an average initial weight of 17.01.1 g, were fed diet containing four doses of silymarin (0, 0.1, 0.5, and 1 g/kg diet) for 60 d. Fish were then given an intraperitoneal injection of CCl 4 (30% in arachis oil) at a dose of 0.5 ml/kg body weight. At 72 h after CCl 4 injection, blood and liver samples were collected for the analyses of serum biochemical parameters, liver index, peroxidation product, glutathione, and antioxidant enzyme activities. The results showed that administration of silymarin at 0.5 and 1 g/kg diet for 60 d prior to CCl 4 intoxication significantly reduced the elevated activities of glutamate pyruvate transaminase, glutamate oxalate transaminase, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and increased the reduced levels of total protein and albumin in the serum. The reduced levels of liver index, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, catalase, glutathione, and total antioxidant capacity were markedly increased, and malondialdehyde formation was significantly restrained in the liver. However, these parameters, except LDH, were not significantly changed in fish fed with silymarin at 0.1 g/kg diet. Based on the results, it can be concluded that silymarin has protective effect against CCl 4 -induced hepatotoxicity in fish. It is suggested that silymarin may be used as a hepatoprotective agent to prevent liver diseases in fish.
40802409|Retinitis pigmentosa, age-related macular degeneration, and Parkinson's disease remain major problems in the field of medicine. Some of the strategies being explored for treatment include replacement of damaged tissue by transplantation of healthy tissues or progenitor cells and delivery of neurotrophins to rescue degenerating tissue. One of the neurotrophins with promise is the ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). In this study, we report the role played by CNTF in retinal cell differentiation and survival in retinal progenitors. We found that CNTF is a survival factor for multipotential human retinal cells and increased cell survival by 50%, over a 7-d period, under serum-free conditions, as determined by apoptotic assays (immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry). This effect is dose dependent with a maximum survival at a CNTF concentration of 20 ng/ml. We also report that CNTF might be a cell commitment factor, directing the differentiation mainly toward large multipolar cells with ganglionic and amacrine phenotype. These cells express tyrosine hydroxylase (amacrine cells) as well as, thy 1.1 and neuronspecific enolase (ganglionic cells). Additionally, there was also an increase in protein kinase C alpha, a protein expressed in rod and cone bipolars as well as cone photoreceptors and calbindin, a protein expressed in cone photoreceptors and horizontal cells. In our studies, CNTF doubled the number of cells with ganglionic phenotypes, and basic fibroblast growth factor doubled the number of cells with photoreceptor phenotype. Additionally, CNTF induced a subset of progenitors to undergo multiple rounds of cell division before acquiring the large multipolar ganglionic phenotype. Our conclusion is that CNTF could be an agent that has therapeutic potential and possibly induces differentiation of large multipolar ganglionic phenotype in a subset of progenitors.
20172217| The relations between K channel and Cl channel currents and mycoplasma infection status were studied longitudinally in HSG cells, a human submandibular gland cell line. The K channel currents were disrupted by the occurrence of mycoplasma infection: muscarinic activation of K channels and K channel expression as estimated by ionomycin- or hypotonically induced K current responses were all decreased. Similar decreases in ionomycin- and hypotonically induced responses were observed for Cl channels, but only the latter decrease was statistically significant. Also, Cl currents could be elicited more frequently than K currents (63% of cases versus 0%) in infected cells when tested by exposure to hypotonic media, indicating that mycoplasma infection affects K channels relatively more than Cl channels. These changes occurred in the originally infected cells, were ameliorated when the infection was cleared with sparfloxacin, and recurred when the cells were reinfected. Such changes would be expected to result in hyposecretion of salivary fluid if they occurred in vivo. 
4294371|Primary cultures of human proximal tubule (HPT) cells possess the characteristics of a tight epithelium and retain the characteristics of in vivo renal function. HPT cells form confluent monolayers when grown on collagen-coated polycarbonate inserts in a hormonally defined serum-free medium. However, initial studies of transepithelial transport observed large bidirectional fluxes of the paracellular probe inulin. The present studies were designed to assess the transformation of HPT cell tight junctions to a "leaky" state and subsequent recovery. The apparent transepithelial electrical resistance of HPT cells at confluence was
4294283|Chondrocytes from the hypertrophic and proliferative zones of 16-day-old fetal murine metatarsal bones were enzymatically dissociated and cultured in a high-density type of culture, exposed to the gas phase. We ascertained that no cells of the perichondrium were included in the cell suspension. Control cultures formed a solid cartilaginous mass, of which all the chondrocytes were alkaline phosphatase positive and the matrix started to calcify after 4 days. After 6 days, nearly the entire matrix was calcified. When co-cultured with pieces of cerebral tissue, some chondrocytes had transdifferentiated into osteoblasts after 4 days. They had started to form osteoid. After 6 and 11 days part of the cartilage had been replaced by bone, especially in the periphery of the cultures, but also in areas in the center. The bone matrix was partly calcified. Osteoblasts and bone matrix were identified as such electron microscopically. The nature of the bone matrix was also confirmed by immunohistochemical demonstration of collagen type I and osteocalcin. These results show that enzymatically isolated chondrocytes are able to become osteoblasts when properly stimulated. This supports the concept of chondrocytes being responsible for (part of) the endochondral bone formation in the marrow cavity of long bones.
4294477|As most in vitro endothelial cell (EC)-vascular smooth muscle cell (SMC) co-culture studies have been performed utilizing static culture conditions, none have successfully mimicked the physical environment of these cells in vivo. EC covering the inner surface of blood vessels are continuously exposed to a hemodynamically imposed mechanical stress resulting from the flow of blood, while SMC are affected by pressure, a flow-related force acting perpendicular to the surface. We have developed a perfused transcapillary co-culture system that permits the chronic exposure of EC and SMC to physiological shear stresses and pressures. SMC and EC co-cultures were successfully established and maintained in long-term culture (7 wk) on an enclosed perfused bundle of semipermeable polypropylene capillaries. By altering flow rate and/or viscosity, shear stresses of
41318692|Although human amniotic fluid is an attractive source of multipotent stem cells, the potential of amniotic fluid stem cells (AFSCs) to differentiate into hepatic cells has not been extensively evaluated. In this study, we examined whether human AFSCs can differentiate into a hepatic cell lineage in vitro and in vivo. After being treated with cytokines (fibroblast growth factor 4, basic fibroblast growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor, and oncostatin), AFSCs developed a morphology similar to that of hepatocytes. RT-PCR and immunofluorescence analysis showed that the treated AFSCs expressed the hepatocytespecific markers albumin, cytokeratin 18, and alphafetoprotein. The differentiated cells also developed hepatocyte-speciflc functions, i.e., they secreted albumin, absorbed indocyanine green, and stored glycogen. When transplanted into CCl-injured immunodeficient mice, undifferentiated AFSCs were integrated into the liver tissue, and they expressed markers characteristic of mature human hepatocytes. Although integration of AFSCs into the liver was limited (0.1-0.3% of hepatocytes), histological analysis showed that the recipient mice recovered more rapidly from CCl-injury than CCl-injured mice that did not receive AFSCs. AFSCs can differentiate into hepatocyte-like cells in vitro and in vivo and can represent an easily accessible source of progenitor cells for hepatocyte regeneration and liver cell transplantation.
4294660| Closure of rat mesenteric perforation is considered to occur by connective tissue contraction, a process that has been shown to be stimulated by transforming growth factor-1. In the present study, we assessed the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin during closure by quantitative-reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization. The expression of transforming growth factor-1 and transforming growth factor- type II receptor was also estimated in mesenteric membranes and free peritoneal cells after wounding. A larger expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin was seen around the wound edges compared to unwounded tissue. Both alpha-smooth muscle actin and transforming growth factor- type II receptor were expressed during Days 0, 3, 5, 7, and 10. The expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin on Day 5 was >100 times higher than on Day 0. Transforming growth factor-1 was expressed in both membranes and free peritoneal cells of unoperated control animals but down-regulated after wounding, a finding that has not been reported previously. It reappeared on Days 7 and 10 in free peritoneal cells but not in perforated membranes. The enhanced expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin and down-regulation of transforming growth factor-1 expression after wounding appears to be important phenomena in tissue contraction and repair. 
4294769| Human dermal microvascular endothelial cells are used to analyze the functions of microvascular endothelium in vitro. However, the low yield and short lifespan of these cells in culture has limited the types of analysis that could be performed. Human microvascular endothelial cells are typically grown in media containing supplements such as dibutyryl cyclic AMP, hydrocortisone, bovine brain extract, and antifungal agents, each of which increase the complexity of experimental design and interpretation of results. In the present study, endothelial cells were transferred after Ulex europeus-I selection into a simplified medium consisting of Endothelial Basal Medium 131, 10% fetal bovine serum, and 2 ng/ml basic fibroblast growth factor and analyzed over 3 mo. The human microvascular endothelial cells expressed the endothelial markers von Willebrand factor, CD31, P-selectin, and E-selectin. In addition, the cells showed increased proliferation in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor (0.5 ng/ml) or vascular endothelial cell growth factor (10 ng/ml). Tumor necrosis factor-t-induced expression of E-selectin was similar in cells at Passages 3, 6, and 12, indicating that the cells maintained responsiveness to cytokines over several weeks. Furthermore, the endothelial cells attained a typical cobblestone morphology with increased cellular density and also formed capillarylike tubes on Matrigel. In summary, the human dermal microvascular endothelial cells display the expected endothelial characteristics when grown for several passages and, therefore, provide a valuable in vitro model for human microvascular endothelium. 
4294856|A new cell line, FR-car, has been established from a biopsy of a low-grade human cervical squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL). We confirmed the epithelial origin of the cells by keratin staining using polykeratin, AE1/AE3 and CAM 5.2 antibodies. Sixty percent to 80% of the cultured cells stained positive for proliferative cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki-67. There was no overexpression of p53. Karyotyping revealed that the cell line was hypodiploid with clonal abnormalities on chromosome 6 and 16. Sections of a biopsy adjacent to the lesion from which the culture was initiated tested positive for human papillomavirus (HPV) 18 DNA by the polymerase chain reaction, but cultured cells tested at several passages were HPV-negative by either type-specific or consensus PCRs. This HPV-negative SIL line may be useful in studies into the cell biology of dysplastic epithelium.
20869589|Wound healing can result in the development of keloid scars that contain atypical fibroblasts and an overabundance of extracellular matrix components. Hyperbaric oxygenation (HBO) refers to exposure to pure oxygen under increased atmospheric pressure and is recognized as a valuable supplementary method of treatment for problematic wounds. The effect of HBO in the expression of insulin-like growth factor type 1 (ILGF-1) and transforming growth factor  (TGF-) messenger RNAs was determined by semiquantitative RT-PCR in fibroblasts obtained from keloid scars and nonwound involved skin fibroblast from the same patient. ILGF-1 and TGF- are the principal mitogens during wound regeneration. We found a decrease in the growth of fibroblasts and in the expression of ILGF-1 and TGF- messengers in keloid and nonkeloid fibroblast after chronic exposition to hyperbaric oxygenation compared with normal oxygen partial pressure.
20869543|A variety of cytokines have been detected in inflamed intestinal mucosal tissues, including the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1 (IL-1), along with growth factors involved in wound healing processes such as proliferation and cell migration. However, little is known about how IL-1 and growth factors interact with intestinal epithelial cells to regulate the production of inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-8 (IL-8). Previously, we have shown that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) could significantly enhance IL-1-stimulated IL-8 secretion by the Caco-2 colonic epithelial cell line, yet HGF, by itself, did not stimulate IL-8 secretion. In this report, a second growth factor, keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), was also found to significantly enhance IL-1-induced IL-8 secretion by Caco-2 cells, yet KGF, by itself, also had no effect. Simultaneous addition of both IL-1 and KGF was also required for the enhancing effect. Treatment of the Caco-2 cells with wortmannin or triciribine suppressed the enhancing effect of HGF, suggesting that the effect was mediated by signaling through phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) and the kinase AKT. The enhancing effect of KGF was not affected by wortmannin, but was suppressed by triciribine, suggesting that the effect of KGF was through a PI3K-independent activation of AKT. These results suggest that the growth factors HGF and KGF may play a role in enhancing IL-1-stimulated production of IL-8 by epithelial cells during mucosal inflammations. However, the mechanism by which the growth factors enhance the IL-1 response may be through different initial signaling pathways.
40205769|Pancreatic acinar cells rapidly lose their characteristic features when cultured in vitro. No successful cryopreservation methods have been reported. To solve the problem of storing pancreatic acinar material, we found that it could be preserved at nonfreezing, cold temperatures: above the freezing point of cell culture medium (-0.6C) or at typical refrigeration temperatures (6.0-8.0C) for up to 7 d. Under the conditions we defined, we determined that there was no significant dedifferentiation and no significant decrease in cell health. Good viability and enzyme content were realized after storage, as determined by growth in culture, histological evaluation, and enzyme content by ELISA (lipase and amylase).
41417645|In the somatic cell, the mitotic spindle apparatus is centrosomal, and several isoforms of protein kinase C (PKC) have been associated with the mitotic spindle, but their role in stabilizing the mitotic spindle is still unclear. Other protein kinases such as, glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) have also been shown to be associated with the mitotic spindle apparatus. In this study, we show the enrichment of active (phosphorylated) PKC at the centrosomal region of the spindle apparatus in metaphase stage of 3T3 cells. In order to understand whether the two kinases PKC and GSK3 are associated with the mitotic spindle, first, the co-localization of phosphorylated PKC isoforms with GSK3 was studied at the poles in metaphase cells. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) analysis was used to demonstrate close molecular proximity of phospho-PKC with phospho(ser9) GSK3. Second, the involvement of inactive GSK3 in maintaining an intact mitotic spindle in 3T3 cells was shown. Third, this study also showed that addition of a phospho-PKC specific inhibitor to cells can disrupt the mitotic spindle microtubules and some of the proteins associated with it. The mitotic spindle at metaphase in mouse fibroblasts appears to be maintained by PKC acting through GSK3, Phospho-PKC is in close molecular proximity to GSK3, whereas the other isoforms of PKC such as pPKCII, pPKC, pPKC and pPKC are not close enough to have significant FRET readings. The close molecular proximity supports the idea that GSK3 may be a substrate of PKC.
4295058|Following previous findings in human skin of the functional expression of genes for the corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) receptor type 1 (CRH-R1) and CRH itself, we searched for local phenotypic effects for peptides related to CRH. We now report that CRH, sauvagine, and urocortin inhibit proliferation of human HaCaT keratinocytes in a dose-dependent manner. The peptides produced variable cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate stimulation, with CRH having the highest potency. Binding of iodine 125 CRH to intact keratinocytes was inhibited by increasing doses of CRH, sauvagine, or urocortin, all showing equal inhibitory potency. Immunocytochemistry identified CRH-R1 immunoreactivity in HaCaT keratinocytes. In conclusion, CRH (exogenous or produced locally) and the related urocortin and sauvagine peptides can modify human keratinocyte phenotype through a receptor-mediated pathway.
40205808|Islet cells derived from patients with persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI) have the ability to grow readily in simple culture media. However, as with primary islets and cell lines, they lose hormone expression upon growth. In this study, we have investigated the role of three-dimensional cell-to-cell contact in the reinitiation of hormone expression in growth dedifferentiated PHHI-derived cells. Two main methods of cell aggregation were studied; the promotion of pseudoislets through petri dish culture and the creation of cell aggregates in the microgravity environment of the high aspect ratio vessel (HARV). Immunohistochemical analysis and ELISA assay showed that petri dish culture did not re-establish endocrine expression in any of the five cultures tested. However, through HARV technology, we have demonstrated that it is possible to reactivate insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and GAD expression in PHHI-derived cells that had previously stopped expressing these markers. These results indicate that the unique environment of the HARV can be conducive to the upregulation of endocrine expression of islet-derived cells and optimization of culture conditions may prove useful in the sphere of  cell proliferation.
4294802|Rat hepatocytes were maintained on three-dimensional cultures on sponge discs kept in Spinner Baskets (New Brunswick Scientific Co., New Brunswick, NJ, USA) with continuously circulating serum-free hepatocyte growth medium (HGM) containing hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF). Hepatocytes were embedded in polyester sponge discs with a collagen gel at the concentration of 5 million cells/ml. Atmospheric gas containing
4294296| A simple and rapid method for the assay of adenine nucleotides (ATP, ADP, and AMP) was established to evaluate the adenylate energy charge (ATP+ADP/2)/(ATP+ADP+AMP) of cultured hepatocytes. The effects of inhibitors of glycolysis, fatty acid oxidation, or oxidative phosphorylation on the energy charge were examined. The energy charges of cultured hepatocytes in rats and human were almost identical and were maintained at a high level between 6 and 24 h after changing the media (rat: 0.908  0.008 n = 9, human: 0.918  0.014 n = 6, mean  SD). Inhibition of glycolysis with sodium fluoride or oxidative phosphorylation with antimycin A irreversibly reduced both the adenine nucleotide contents and the energy charge. However, the inhibition of fatty acid oxidation with 2-tetradecylglycidic acid did not affect the nucleotide contents, and the energy charge only decreased transiently to recover within 8 h. When the inhibitor of oxidative phosphorylation was removed, the recovery in the energy charge preceded the recovery in the adenine nucleotide contents. These findings suggest that the adenylate energy charge is a more sensitive measure of the changes in energy metabolism than the adenine nucleotide contents. Furthermore, energy charge regulates adenine nucleotide contents in cultured hepatocytes. It is important to confirm that the high energy charge of the cultured hepatocytes is maintained when these cells are used for metabolic studies. 
20616598|The melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) is a transmembrane
41511622|The unintentional introduction of the cactus moth, Cactoblastis cactorum, a successful biological control agent formerly employed in the control of invasive prickly pear cactus species (Opuntia spp.) in Australia, Hawaii, South Africa, and various Caribbean islands, has posed great concern as to the possible threat to native, endangered species of cactus in the southeastern USA as well as with the potential to cause a major infestation of commercial and agricultural cactus crops in Mexico. A number of control measures have been investigated with varying degrees of success including, field exploration for cactus moth-specific parasitoids, insecticides, fungal, bacterial, and nematode agents. Current tactics used by the USAMexico binational program to eradicate cactus moth from Mexico and mitigate its westward movement in the USA include host plant removal, the manual removal and destruction of egg sticks and infected cacti stems, and the Sterile Insect Technique. One other approach not taken until now is the development of a cactus moth cell line as a tool to facilitate the investigation of baculoviruses as an alternative biocontrol method for the cactus moth. Consequently, we established C. cactorum cell lines derived from adult ovarian tissue designated as BCIRL-Cc-AM and BCIRL-Cc-JG. The mean cell population doubling time was 204.3 and 112 h for BCIRL-Cc-AM and BCIRL-Cc-JG, respectively, with weekly medium change, while the doubling time was 176.6 and 192.6 h for BCIRL-Cc-AM and BCIRL-Cc-JG, respectively, with a daily change of medium. In addition, the daily versus weekly change in medium was reflected in the percentage viability with both cell lines showing higher levels with a daily medium change. Of the three baculoviruses tested, only the recombinant AcMNPV-hsp70Red and GmMNPV at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 1.0 were able to demonstrate significant production of extracellular virus (ECV) in each of the cell lines, whereas both cell lines were refractive to an HzSNPV challenge at an MOI of 10. In this study, we have demonstrated both the successful development of a C. cactorum cell line and its ability to support a complete baculovirus infection. The potential is also there to pursue further investigations to determine the susceptibility of the cactus moth cell line to other viruses. Additionally, the availability of a cactus moth cell line will facilitate the analysis of viruses prior to using the more expensive bioassay test. Finally, it is hoped with the knowledge presented here that baculoviruses may also be considered as an alternative biocontrol method for the cactus moth.
40205782|During the process of angiogenesis, the normally quiescent endothelial cells that line the vasculature are induced to proliferate, migrate and align to form new blood vessels by angiogenic stimuli. Assays for angiogenic factors mostly involve in vivo approaches. The two most commonly used in vivo assaysthe chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay and the rabbit corneal assay are tedious to perform and are technically demanding. Several in vitro assays have also been developed, based on the ability of endothelial cells to form tubes in 3-D matrices. Here, we describe the modification of a microcarrier beadbased assay. This assay combines cells grown on Cytodex-3 microcarrier beads with Matrigel to provide an easy, rapid, and reliable method for evaluating and measuring angiogenic activity. We also describe the differential behavior of normal and transformed endothelial cells cultured in Matrigel.
4294390|Considerable progress has recently been made in the understanding of airway inflammation by cell culture assays and in vivo provocation studies. Inasmuch as ethical considerations limit experimental work in humans, physiologically relevant in vitro models are required to better understand cellular and molecular tissue interactions in human nasal mucosa. Here we describe a human nasal mucosa culture model utilizing a simple gelatin sponge-supported histoculture system at the air-liquid interface. Viable mucosa was preserved for at least 48 h, as shown by morphology and immunohistochemical staining with Ki-67 as marker for proliferation. Pro-inflammatory mediators (kinins, histamine, thromboxane B
41511625|Fates of digits in amniotes, i.e., free or webbed digits, are determined by the size of programmed interdigital cell death (ICD) area. However, no (or very few) cell death has thus far been observed in developing limb buds of nonamniotic terrestrial vertebrates including other anuran or urodela amphibians. We speculate that the undetectable situation of amphibian ICD is the result of their less frequency due to slow developmental speed characteristic to most amphibian species. Here, we present three strategies for detecting difflcult-to-find ICD in the frog, Xenopus laevis. (1) Addition of triiodo-L-thyronine (T) accelerated two to three times the limb development and increased two to four times the appearance frequency of vital dye-stainable cells in limb buds of the accelerated tadpoles (stage 54 to 55). (2) Application of human bone morphogenetic protein-4 to the autopods of tadpoles at stage 53 to 54 enhanced digital cartilage formation and induced vital dye-stainable cells around the enhanced digital cartilages within 2 d. (3) In cell culture, T increased the chondrogenic and cell death activities of limb mesenchymal cells. The augmentation of both activities by T was stronger in the forelimb cells than in the hindlimb cells. This situation is well coincided with the limb fates of non-webbed forelimbs and webbed hindlimbs in X. laevis adulthood. Collectively, all three approaches showed that it become possible to detect X. laevis ICD with appropriate strategies.
4294466|The hormonal control of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) gene expression and production by growth factors, gonadotrophins, and serum factors in cultured bovine granulosa cells (BGC) were investigated. Confluent cultures of BGC were exposed to various factors in a defined medium and levels of TIMP-1 in the conditioned medium were determined by enzyme immunoassay. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) showed potent stimulation of cell proliferation and TIMP-1 production by BGC, while insulin stimulated growth but not TIMP-1 production. Basic FGF stimulated TIMP-1 production and BGC cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. A time course of TIMP-1 production showed substantially increased levels between 18 and 24 h in both control and bFGF-stimulated BGC cultures with bFGF-stimulated cultures having markedly higher TIMP-1 production at all time points. Consistent with the TIMP-1 production data, bFGF and aFGF increased the expression of TIMP-1 mRNA as determined by northern blot analysis, while insulin, inhibited TIMP-1 mRNA levels. These results indicate that FGF-induced TIMP-1 production by BGC may support bovine embryo development in vitro.
40205780|Tools and methods for analyzing differences in embryos resulting from somatic cell nuclear transfer (NT) in comparison to those derived from normal fertilization are needed to define better the nature of the nuclear reprogramming that occurs after NT. To this end, a collection of bovine blastocyst-derived cell lines was created. In vitro expanded or hatched blastocysts, used as primary culture tissue, were from NT; in vitro maturation, fertilization, and culture (IVF); or parthenogenetic (P) activation. Also, five in vivo-fertilized and developed blastocysts were collected by uterine flushing on the eighth d postfertilization. Whole blastocysts were physically attached to STO feeder layers to initiate all of the cell lines generated. The majority of the cell lines in the collection are trophectoderm, 38 NT-derived, 6 in vivo-derived, 20 IVF-derived, and 13 P-derived. Trophectoderm identity was ascertained by morphology and, in many cases, interferon-tau production. Several visceral endoderm cell lines and putative parietal endoderm cell lines were also established. At approximately 5% efficiency, epiblast masses from NT and IVF blastocysts survived and were isolated in culture. Two epiblast masses were also isolated from P blastocysts. Spontaneous differen- tiation from the epiblast outgrowths resulted in the establishment of fibroblast cell lines. The use of the trophectoderm cell lines as a comparative in vitro model of bovine trophectoderm and placental function is discussed in relation to NT reprogramming.
4294526|A cell line from the main insect pest of potatoes in tropical and subtropical areas, Phthorimaea operculella (Zeller), was obtained from embryoculture. These cells were cultured in Grace's modified medium. The cell line, designated ORS-Pop-93, had a heterogeneous population consisting of spherical and spindle cells with great capacity to adhere and a doubling time of 40 h. They were subcultured for more than 60 passages. Their polypeptidic profile was different from profiles of other lepidopteran cell lines. The cell line supports the multiplication of the Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus.
4295526| Murine endothelial cells (ECs) have proven difficult to obtain and maintain in culture. Long-term maintenance of normal ECs remains a difficult task. In this article we report the establishment of the first cellular line of renal microvascular endothelium obtained from normal tissue. Cells were isolated, cloned, and maintained by serial passages for longer than 24 mo, using endothelial cell growth supplement (ECGS) and gelatin-coated plates. Their morphology and ultrastructure, expression of von Willebrand factor, presence of smooth muscle -actin, vimentin, cytokeratin filaments, capillary structures formed on Matrigel, and some typical ECs surface molecules were the criteria used to characterize cultured ECs. When examined for responsiveness to Shiga toxin-1, 13-20% of cytotoxicity was observed when coincubated with lipopolysaccharides. This cytotoxicity was not observed for normal lung ECs (1G11). Consequently, REC-A4 line retains characteristics of resting microvascular ECs and represents a useful in vitro model to study biological and physiopathological properties of renal endothelium. 
40205851|This report describes a novel approach to the detection of acetylcholine using DNA aptamers. Aptamers were developed by eight rounds of acetylcholine affinity column chromatography and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Sequences from rounds 5 and 8 were screened by colorimetric enzyme-based microtiter plate assays and found to bind acetylcholine and related compounds, but not unrelated compounds. One of the highest affinity aptamers, designated ACh 6R, was further tested in aptamer-peroxidase and aptamer-fluorescence staining protocols. Using Neuro-2a murine neuroblastoma cells induced to differentiate in the presence of 1 M alltrans-retinoic acid for 5-7 d, ACh 6R detected cholinergic cells by both the peroxidase and fluorescence methods. Unrelated DNA aptamers did not stain the cells using either method. Fixation with cold 2% paraformaldehyde was compared to cold alkaline allyl alcohol plus glutaraldehyde for immobilization of acetylcholine in situ and appeared to enable detection of greater numbers of cholinergic cells, although differences in levels of differentiation may have been a factor as well. Acetylcholine generally appeared to be distributed throughout the differentiated Neuro-2a cell bodies. However, in some cells, punctate staining along neurite outgrowths and near the termini of cellular processes suggested detection of acetylcholine in discrete vesicles.
4294935| A gypsy moth cell line, IPLB-LdEIta, maintained under various conditions was tested for susceptibility to and productivity of two baculoviruses, the Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV) and Lymantria dispar nucleopolyhedrovirus (LdMNPV). The results suggest that cells maintained in serum-containing medium (modified TC100) were more susceptible (on the basis of titers in an endpoint assay) to LdMNPV than cells maintained in a serum-free medium (ExCell 400). Such a difference was not apparent with AcMNPV. Similarly, little difference existed in the proportion of cells containing occlusion bodies (OBs) a wk after inoculation with AcMNPV (i.e., the percent infected) in any LdEIta strains, although one combination of cells and medium (cells maintained in ExCell 400 but infected in TC100) showed a lower percent infection with LdMNPV. Even though the percentage of cells infected varied little, the number of OBs produced varied by 3 logs with AcMNPV and 11/2 logs with LdMNPV. In each case, cells normally grown in ExCell 400 and infected in the same medium produced the lowest number of OBs. However, productivity was improved when cells normally grown in ExCell 400 were infected in TC100. Even more interesting was that cells normally grown in TC100 produced more AcMNPV OBs when infected in ExCell 400 medium. This suggests that changing culture medium (regardless of the normal maintenance medium) can stimulate virus production. In addition to examining virus productivity in LdEIta cells in both serum-containing and serum-free media, I also tested a strain maintained at low temperature (17 C) for over a yr. This maintenance protocol was not detrimental for LdMNPV productivity and was slightly stimulatory for production of AcMNPV 
4294735|We have developed a unique human fetal kidney explant model to study the role of the insulinlike growth factor (IGF) system in metanephric development. Kidneys from 10-18 wk gestation human abortuses were maintained in serum-free conditions and defined medium, which was shown to support the induction and differentiation of the viable metanephric blastema. Histologically the tissue remained viable to 192 h of serum-free culture, while metanephric differentiation, reflected by a shrinking nephrogenic zone and the formation of maturing S-shape and glomerular forms, was accelerated and occurred between 48 and 96 h. In the nephrogenic zone, a significant decrease in IGF-II gene expression occurred, which reflected the differentiation of the metanephric blastema cell mass. IGF-II expression persisted, however, in the expanded interstitial mesenchyme. With differentiation over 48 h an increase in IGFBP-2 and WT1 gene expression by Northern blot analysis occurred, and was localized by in situ hybridization to the differentiating glomerular epithelial cell mass. Analysis of the explant-conditioned media by Western ligand blot demonstrated an increase in the rate of IGF binding protein (IGFBP)-2 peptide production by the differentiating explant, consistent with an increase in IGFBP-2 gene expression and with metanephric differentiation. This pattern of temporal and spatial gene expression closely approximates that of normal in vivo fetal renal development and of glomerular epithelial cell differentiation.
4294048| Thirty-eight human cancer cell lines and subclones derived from 12 different organs were screened for vitronectin secretion in their culture media. By immunoblotting analysis we detected high secretion by three out of five hepatoma cell lines tested but no secretion by the others. In addition, significant secretion was observed in seven non-hepatic cancer cell lines and subclones derived from the cervix, lung, and pancreas. These vitronectin-secreting cells included PLC/PRF/5, HuH-6 #5, HuH-7, HeLa S3, HeLa  P3 #2, #3, #6, #8, A549, and MIAPaCa-2. The results were further confirmed by quantitative analysis using sandwich enzyme-linked immunoassay, and activity analysis of cell attachment promotion on Western blotted filters. 
4295592| Previously, we showed that dexamethasone (DEX) inhibited the expression of inflammatory cytokines, matrix metallo-proteinase-1, and cyclooxygenase-2 messenger ribonucleic acid in SW982 cells. In this study, the effect of DEX on the transcription factors nuclear factor-B (NF-B) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) was examined in SW982 cells by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Both NF-B and AP-1 deoxyribonucleic acid binding activities were detectable in SW982 cells by EMSA, and they were induced by interleukin-1 treatment. DEX inhibited NF-B binding activity at 10 M as well as at 100 M, although the inhibition was only partial. However, DEX had little effect on AP-1 activity. These results suggest that DEX reduces the expression of inflammatory cytokines and other proteins in SW982 cells by inhibiting NF-B. 
4294480| Iron is essential for tumor cell growth. Previous studies have demonstrated that apart from transferrin-bound iron uptake, mammalian cells also possess a transport system capable of efficiently obtaining iron from small molecular weight iron chelates (Sturrock et al., 1990). In the present study, we have examined the ability of tumor cells to grow in the presence of low molecular weight iron chelates of citrate. In chemically defined serum-free medium, most human tumor cell lines required either transferrin (5 g/ml) or a higher concentration of ferric citrate (500 M) as an iron source. However, we have also found that from 13 human cell lines tested, 4 were capable of long-term growth in transferrin-free medium with a substantially lower concentration of ferric citrate (5 M). When grown in medium containing transferrin, both regular and low-iron dependent cell lines use transferrin-bound iron. Growth of both cell types in transferrin medium was inhibited to a certain degree by monoclonal antibody 42/6, which specifically blocks the binding of transferrin to the transferrin receptor. On the contrary, growth of low-iron dependent cell lines in transferrin-free, low-iron medium (5 M ferric citrate) could not be inhibited by monoclonal antibody 42/6. Furthermore, no autocrine production of transferrin was observed. Low-iron dependent cell lines still remain sensitive to iron depletion as the iron(III) chelator, desferrioxamine, inhibited their growth. We conclude that low-iron dependent tumor cells in transferrin-free, low-iron medium may employ a previously unknown mechanism for uptake of non-transferrin-bound iron that allows them to efficiently use low concentrations of ferric citrate as an iron source. The results are discussed in the context of alternative iron uptake mechanisms to the well-characterized receptor-mediated endocytosis process. 
4295086|Our purpose was to engineer three-dimensional skeletal muscle tissue constructs from primary cultures of adult rat myogenic precursor cells, and to measure their excitability and isometric contractile properties. The constructs, termed myooids, were muscle-like in appearance, excitability, and contractile function. The myooids were 12 mm long and ranged in diameter from 0.1 to 1 mm. The myooids were engineered with synthetic tendons at each end to permit the measurement of isometric contractile properties. Within each myooid the myotubes and fibroblasts were supported by an extracellular matrix generated by the cells themselves, and did not require a preexisting scaffold to define the size, shape, and general mechanical properties of the resulting structure. Once formed, the myooids contracted spontaneously at approximately 1 Hz, with peak-to-peak force amplitudes ranging from 3 to
4295271| In order to characterize a fibroblast cell line representing normal human skin fibroblasts in three-dimensional cultures, we compared the fibroblast line MSU-1.1, derived from human foreskin and immortalized by v-myc, to primary human dermal fibroblasts (NDF). Our results demonstrate that in contrast to NDF, all MSU-1.1 fibroblasts die within 3-4 d when cultured within three-dimensional contractile collagen matrices. Also, in contrast to NDF, MSU-1.1 cells die markedly in anchored collagen gels as well. Death is due to apoptosis and is attenuated by addition of antibodies against collagen-recognizing receptors a11 and 21. Apoptosis of NDF in collagen lattices was repressed by an inhibitor of caspase-1, which was ineffective on apoptosis of MSU-1.1. Further, apoptosis by MSU-1.1 fibroblasts was also observed in anchored, i.e., restrained collagen lattices, an environment that supports proliferation of NDF. 
4294732| Chironomus tentans cells were cultured in the presence of gradually increasing concentrations of 20-OH-ecdysone or a nonsteroidal molting hormone agonist, the benzoylhydrazine RH 5992, for a period of about 2 yr. From these cultures, subclones were selected, which are resistant to up to 25 M 20-OH-ecdysone according to morphological (changes in cell shape and cell arrangement) and physiological criteria (acetylcholinesterase induction, secretion of chitinolytic enzymes, thymidine incorporation). Some subclones, selected in the presence of 20-OH-ecdysone, are resistant only to molting hormone, but still respond to RH 5992 morphologically and biochemically, whereas subclones selected in the presence of the benzoylhydrazine showed no reaction neither to 20-OH-ecdysone nor to the hormone agonist. Hormone resistance is stable; 3 mo. after hormone withdrawal, resistant clones still do not respond to renewed exposure to 20-OH-ecdysone or RH 5992, respectively. Because in all resistant subclones tested so far all hormonally regulated responses known from sensitive cells were no longer detectable, it is assumed that the hormone signaling pathway itself is interrupted. Possible mechanisms of hormone resistance were discussed. 
4294644|The requirement of serum in cell culture is a major limitation for studies on secreted ribonucleases (RNases) because serum contains a high amount of ribonucleolytic activity. Defined culture condition is thus of interest to improve our knowledge of the RNase biology. We report here that cells from three different types and origins, Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts, bovine smooth muscle cells, and human endothelium-derived EA.hy926 cells, proliferate consistently in the presence of a basal medium supplemented with bovine serum albumin, high-density lipoproteins, basic fibroblast growth factor, insulin, and transferrin. Using a new quantitative radio-RNase inhibitor assay, two distinct ribonucleolytic assays, and a radioimmunoassay against angiogenin, it is shown that RNases became apparent in media conditioned by cell monolayers. Both the hamster lung fibroblast and the EA.hy926 cell lines secreted larger amounts of RNase inhibitorinteracting factors and RNase activity than normal smooth muscle cells. The serum-free medium represents an alternative way to grow these cells and allows investigation of biosynthesis and functions of RNases in culture. It should be useful to identify and quantitate unambiguously specific members of the RNase family secreted by normal versus tumor cells in culture.
4295215| Transforming growth factor- (TGF-) and insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) can attenuate drug-induced cell death in epithelial cells. Since milk whey contains a mixture of these and other growth factors, we evaluated mitogenic bovine whey extract (MBWE) for protective activity against chemotherapy drug damage in cultured epithelial cells (mink lung, MvlLu). Etoposide and vinblastine reduced cell survival by up to 90%. This was attenuated by the addition of MBWE before and during drug exposure, but not following drug removal. MBWE was compared with individual growth factors known to be present in the mixture. IGF-I and platelet-derived growth factor were ineffective, whereas TGF-2 induced growth inhibition and cell survival, with a maximum response at 3 ng/ml. TGF-2 bioactivity was also demonstrated by showing that acidification of MBWE (A-MBWE), to activate TGF-2, enhanced its growth inhibitory and chemoprotective activities 60- and 12-fold, respectively. However, MBWE contained additional protective factors. When TGF-2 and the MBWE preparations were compared, on the basis of growth inhibition equivalents, MBWE protected cells against drug toxicity at concentrations an order of magnitude lower than with TGF-2 or A-MBWE. Immunoneutralization of the TGF- present in MBWE and A-MBWE eliminated all growth inhibitory activity but not all cell survival activity. We conclude that the MBWE preparations are cytoprotective against two chemotherapy drugs when added before and during drug exposure. TGF- contributes to this activity, but the extracts contain other factors that promote the survival of epithelial cells after chemotherapy drug exposure. 
40928167|Expression of mRNA encoding sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) isoforms (SREBP-1a, -1c, -2) and seven SREBP target genes decreased dramatically as a result of isolation and subsequent culture of primary rat hepatocytes. In standard maintenance medium (MM) expression remained low but when cultured in HepatoZYME (HZM), there was a selective increase in mRNA encoding SREBP-2 and a subset of SREBP target genes, a group characterised by promoters containing adjacent sterol regulatory element and nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) binding sequences. Quantification of all three NF-Y transcripts showed that expression of nuclear factor Y  subunit and nuclear factor Y  subunit mRNA increased during culture in HZM (in contrast to the situation with MM) whilst specificity protein 1, liver-x-receptor and hepatocyte nuclear factor-4 mRNA exhibited equivalent decreased expression in both HZM and MM. Our data indicate that HZM exerts a selective preservation of hepatocyte phenotype through actions on NF-Y expression directly or via an effect secondary to actions on SREBP-2 expression. These data add to the molecular dissection of the causes of hepatocyte dedifferentiation during culture and address means to develop approaches to prevent/limit phenotype change.
40663794|Since the derivation of the first human embryonic stem cell (hESC) line in 1998, there has been substantial interest in the potential of these cells for regenerative medicine and cell therapy and in the use of hESCs carrying clinically relevant genetic mutations as models for disease research and therapeutic target identification. There is still a need to improve derivation efficiency and further the understanding of the basic biology of these cells and to develop clinical grade culture systems with the aim of producing cell lines suitable for subsequent manipulation for therapy. The derivation of initial hESC lines at King's College London is discussed here, with focus on derivation methodology. Each of the derivations was distinctive. Although the stage and morphology of each blastocyst were generally similar in each attempt, the behaviour of the colonies was unpredictable; colony morphology and development was different with each attempt. Days 5, 6 and 7 blastocysts were used successfully, and the number of days until appearance of stem-like cells varied from 4 to 14 d. Routine characterisation analyses were performed on three lines, all of which displayed appropriate marker expression and survived cryopreservation thaw cycles. From the lines discussed, four are at various stages of the deposition process with the UKSCB, one is pending submission and two are unsuitable for banking. Continued open and transparent reporting of results and collaborations will maximise the efficiency of derivation and facilitate the development of standardised protocols for the derivation and early culture of hESC lines.
23481784|The marine mammalian Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin, once widely lived in waters of the Indian to western Pacific oceans, has become an endangered species. The individual number of this dolphin has significantly declined in recent decades, which raises the concern of extinction. Direct concentration on laboratorial conservation of the genetic and cell resources should be paid to this marine species. Here, we report the successful derivation of cell lines form the skin of Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin. The cell cultures displayed the characteristics of fibroblast in morphology and grew rapidly at early passages, but showed obvious growth arrest at higher passages. The karyotype of the cells consisted of 42 autosomes and sex chromosomes X and Y. The immortalized cell lines obtained by forced expression of the SV40 large T-antigen were capable of proliferation at high rate in long-term culture. Immortalization and long-term culture did not cause cytogenetically observable abnormality in the karyotype. The cell type of the primary cultures and immortalized cell lines were further characterized as fibroblasts by the specific expression of vimentin. Gene transfer experiments showed that exogenetic genes could be efficiently delivered into the cells by both plasmid transfection and lentivirus infection. The cells derived from the skin of the Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin may serve as a useful in vitro system for studies on the effects of environmental pollutants and pathogens in habitats on the dolphin animals. More importantly, because of their high proliferation rate and susceptibility to lentivirus, these cells are potential ideal materials for generation of induced pluripotent stem cells.
40663749|Xenotransplantation shows great promise for providing a virtually limitless supply of cells, tissues, and organs for a variety of therapeutical procedures. However, the potential of porcine endogenous retrovirus (PERV) as a human-tropic pathogen, particularly as a public health risk, is a major concern for xenotransplantation. This study focus on the detection of copy number in various tissues and organs in Banna Minipig Inbreed (BMI) from 2006 to 2007 in West China Hospital, Sichuan University. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (SYBR Green I) was performed in this study. The results showed that the pol gene had the most copy number in tissues compared with gag, envA, and envB. Our experiment will offer a rapid and accurate method for the detection of the copy number in various tissues and was especially suitable for the selection of tissues or organs in future clinical xenotransplantation.
4295026| We describe the establishment of a continuous, nontransformed cell line obtained from primary culture of a lactating (114 days postparturition) Anglo-Nubian (Capra hircus) goat mammary gland biopsy. These cells (CMEC), have been cultured in the presence of supraphysiologic concentrations of insulin and hydrocortisone for more than 560 population doublings (over 80 passages) without any sign of senescence while maintaining a normal/near-normal diploid chromosome modal number of 2n = 60 and are responsive to contact inhibition of proliferation. Cytoskeletal analysis indicates that CMECs are epithelial, without detectable fibroblastic or myoepithelial cells. When grown at low density on plastic substratum, the cells tend to form island monolayer aggregates with the characteristic cobblestone morphology of epithelial cells. With increasing density, the cells organize into lumen-like structures with various morphology consisting of large and small vacuolized and nonvacuolized cells. Postconfluent cultures form epithelial raised dome-like structures, implying a process of contact-induced differentiation. This is corroborated by positive immunocytochemistry to lactation-specific proteins: -casein and -lactalbumin, which were predominantly expressed in dome-forming cells. We also observed an overall modulation of cytokeratin 18/19 expression associated with number of days post subculture and with the expression of lactation-specific proteins. Postconfluent cultures which contain lactation-specific, antibody-reactive, dome-like structures showed a decreased expression of keratin 18 and no (null) expression for keratin 19. Lastly, cells cultured within a collagen matrix show morphological differentiation with the organization of branching duct-like and acini-like structures. This study suggests that CMECs are a useful in vitro model for study of mammary gland development and differentiation, in particular, direct modulation of epithelial cells grown on plastic substratum or extracellular matrix without the influence of stromal elements or the necessity and variability associated with primary cell culture or tissue explants. 
24712896|Fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) is required for embryonic epidermal morphogenesis including brain development, lung morphogenesis, and initiation of limb bud formation. In this study, we investigated the role of FGF10 as a lead induction factor for stem cell differentiation toward urothelial cell. To this end, human multipotent stem cell in vitro system was employed. Human amniotic fluid stem cells were co-cultured with immortalized bladder cancer lines to induce directed differentiation into urothelial cells. Urothelial markers, uroplakin II, III, and cytokeratin 8, were monitored by RT-PCR, immunocytochemistry, and Western blot analysis. Co-cultured stem cells began to express uroplakin II, III, and cytokeratin 8. Targeted FGF10 gene knockdown from bladder cancer cells abolished the directed differentiation. In addition, when FGF10 downstream signaling was blocked with the Mek inhibitor, the co-culture system lost the capacity to induce urothelial differentiation. Exogenous addition of recombinant FGF10 protein promoted stem cell differentiation into urothelium cell lineage. Together, this report suggests that paracrine FGF10 signaling stimulates the differentiation of human stem cell into urothelial cells. Current study provides insight into the potential role of FGF10 as a lead growth factor for bladder regeneration and its therapeutic application for bladder transplantation.
4294955| Cardiac myocytes cultured over microfabricated extracellular recording devices can be used to assay bioactive compounds. However, electrophysiological signals recorded from these devices vary in amplitude with time. Theoretically, changes in signal amplitude arise from myocytes being moved over recording sites by cocultured fibroblasts. To test this, neonatal rat cardiac myocytes were cultured at high densities and low densities on fibronectin-coated glass. After 36.5 h, myocytes were identified by their rhythmic contractions and then time-lapse-recorded for 3.5 h. Length, width, and angle of orientation was then determined every 30 min for five cells in low density and five cells in high-density culture. Low-density cells had mean lengths of 65.3 m and widths of 35.1 m, whereas cells in high-density culture had greater mean lengths of 74.2 m and lower mean widths of 24.3 m. Length, width, and angle of orientation of cells in low- and high-density culture changed by 4.1%, 11.8%, and 2.7 degrees, and 6.4%, 10%, and 4.6 degrees, respectively, every half hour. We found no evidence of myocyte-fibroblast interactions influencing cell position or shape in low density, but in high density, we found evidence that fibroblast-myocyte interactions could transiently influence cell shape. We conclude that fibroblast-independent changes in cell shape are largely responsible for the changes in signal amplitude recorded from cardiac myocytes cultured on microfabricated extracellular recording devices. However, there is some evidence that my-ocyte-fibroblast interactions may augment this process in high-density culture. The implications of these findings for bioassay development are discussed. 
4295388| Satellite cells were isolated from biopsies of the biceps femoris of adult dogs. Virtually all cells expressed muscle-specific proteins. Proliferation of satellite cells increased as the concentration of fetal calf serum (FCS) was increased from 1 to 10% of the basal medium. The addition of mitogenic growth factors resulted in greater proliferation than that of cells cultured in basal medium alone. Maximum proliferation was obtained when fibroblast growth factor-basic (FGF2) was added to the medium, but differences existed between sources or types. Proliferation did not plateau when the concentration of recombinant human FGF2 was 75 ng/ml but reached maximum levels when 50 ng/ml of bovine FGF2 or 10 ng/ml of growth hormone or insulin-like growth factor-1 were added to the medium. Proliferation of satellite cells decreased when more than 5 ng/ml of transforming growth factor- was included in the medium. Exposure of canine satellite cells to chemically defined media induced greater fusion of total nuclei (ODM-34%; 4F, ITT-CF, and SFG-23%) than exposure to other treatments, such as basal medium plus 2 mg/ml of 1--D-arabinofuranosylcytosine, 5% chick embryo extract, 1% horse serum (average 9% fused nuclei), or 1% FCS (2% fused nuclei). Actin, myosin, desmin, neural cell adhesion molecule, MyoD1, and myogenin were expressed by canine satellite cells, but expression of major histocompatibility complex class II antigen was not detected. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction detected expression of messenger ribonucleic acid for interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-15, and leukemia inhibitory factor by canine satellite cells. Collectively, these data suggest that isolated canine satellite cells display properties of other types of myogenic cells and may be useful for further study of the regulation of postnatal myogenesis. 
23481704|The peptide hormone gastrin is an important factor for the maintenance and homeostasis of the gastric mucosa. We show that gastrin stimulates proliferation in a dose-dependent manner in the human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line AGS-G R . Furthermore, we demonstrate that the MAPK scaffold protein MEK partner 1 (MP1) is important for gastrin-induced phosphorylation of ERK1 and ERK2 and that MP1 promotes gastrin-induced proliferation of AGS-G R cells. Our results suggest a role of MP1 in gastrin-induced cellular responses involved in proliferation and homeostasis of the gastric mucosa.
4294611|To demonstrate that cells both perceive and respond to external force, a strain/relaxation regimen was applied to normal human fetal and aged dermal fibroblasts cultured as monolayers on flexible membranes. The precisely controlled protocol of stretch (20% elongation of the culture membrane) at 6.67 cycles/min caused a progressive change in the monolayers, such that the original randomly distributed pattern of cells became a symmetric, radial distribution as the cell bodies aligned parallel to the applied force. High cell density interfered with the success of re-alignment in the fetal cell cultures observed, which may reflect a preference in this cell strain for cell-cell over cell-matrix contacts. The chronologically aged cells observed did not demonstrate this feature, aligning efficiently at all seeding densities examined. The role of microfilaments in force perception and transmission was investigated through the addition of cytochalasin D in graded doses. Both intercellular interactions and cytoskeletal integrity mediate the morphological response to mechanical strain.
4295211| In the present study, we evaluated the individual and combined effects of environmental estrogens and flavonoids on the proliferation of human breast carcinoma MCF-7 cells. These compounds are as follows: (1) pharmaceutical chemicals such as diethylstilbestrol, 17-ethynylestradiol (17ES), tamoxifen, mestranol, and clomiphene, (2) industrial chemicals such as bisphenol A (BisA), 4-octylphenol (OP), 4-nonylphenol (NP), and p,p'-biphenol, and (3) flavonoids such as daidzein (D), genistein (G), quercetin (Q), and luteolin (L). We found that nanomolar concentrations of 17ES, BisA, OP, and NP were sufficient to stimulate the proliferation of MCF-7 cells. Among them, 1 M BisA exhibited cell proliferation-stimulating activity as strong as 10 nM 17-estradiol; and D and G exhibited cell proliferation-stimulating activity at 10 nM. On the other hand, Q and L exhibited cell proliferationinhibiting activity. We also found that 10 nM flavonoids, such as D, G, Q, and L, were able to inhibit the proliferation-stimulating activity in MCF-7 cells by 1 M environmental estrogens. 
4295499| Although expression vectors using viral and mammalian promoters constitutively express genes of interest in adherent cells, few studies have examined whether the function of these vectors in suspended cells, such as in over-agar or soft agar assay (an in vitro cell transformation assay), is as robust as when they are in adherent cells. The selection of appropriate expression vector to optimally express genes in suspended cells would be useful in determining whether these genes play a critical role in maintaining colony formation or cell transformation. To compare promoter-driven expression vector function in adherent versus suspension cells, we performed transient transfection assays using viral (simian virus 40 [SV40] and cytomegalovirus [CMV]) and mammalian (-actin) promoters fused to luciferase or -galactosidase reporter gene. Over-agar assay was used to suspend cells on top of agar, which allowed cell retrieval and analysis. We found that -actin and SV40 promoters exhibited suppressed gene expression of 70 and 56%, respectively, in cells suspended on agar compared with those attached on plates. The suppressed response by the exogenous -actin promoter in suspension was consistent with the response of the endogenous -actin promoter activity because the steady-state level of -actin messenger ribonucleic acid in suspended cells was significantly reduced by 50% relative to that expressed in attached cells. In contrast to SV40 promoter, CMV promoter activity was not decreased in cells suspended in over-agar when compared with adherent cells. These studies show that regardless of mammalian or viral vectors, one cannot assume that all expression vectors behave similarly in both suspension and adherent state. 
4295655|This study reconstructed heterogeneous embryos using camel skin fibroblast cells as donor karyoplasts and the bovine oocytes as recipient cytoplasts to investigate the reprogramming of camel somatic cell nuclei in bovine oocyte cytoplasm and the developmental potential of the reconstructed embryos. Serum-starved skin fibroblast cells, obtained from adult camel, were electrically fused into enucleated bovine metaphase II (MII) oocytes that were matured in vitro. The fused eggs were activated by Inomycin with 2 mM/ml 6-dimethylaminopurine. The activated reconstructed embryos were cocultured with bovine cumulus cells in synthetic oviduct fluid supplemented with amino acid (SOFaa) and 10% fetal calf serum for 168 h. Results showed that 53% of the injected oocytes were successfully fused, 34% of the fused eggs underwent the first egg cleavage, and 100% of them developed to four- or 16-cell embryo stages. The first completed cleavage of xenonuclear transfer camel embryos occurred between 22 and 48 h following activation. This study demonstrated that the reconstructed embryos underwent the first embryonic division and that the reprogramming of camel fibroblast nuclei can be initiated in enucleated bovine MII oocytes.
4295377|Adult skeletal muscle fibers can be isolated and cultured but tend to dedifferentiate and sprout with time in culture. We examined isolated adult mouse flexor digitorum brevis muscle fibers under various culture conditions by monitoring maintenance of the same fibers at 2-d intervals using survival analysis. Fibers plated on laminin and cultured in serum-free media did not show sprouting and exhibited significantly (P < 0.0001) longer survival (median survival time,
40663820|In this study, we focused on the derivation of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) from preimplantation genetic screening (PGS)-analyzed and preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD)-analyzed embryos. Out of 62 fresh PGD/PGS-analyzed embryos, 22 embryos reached the blastocyst stage. From 12 outgrowth blastocysts, we derived four hESC lines onto a feeder layer. Surprisingly, karyotype analysis showed that hESC lines derived from aneuploid embryos had diploid female karyotype. One hESC line was found to carry a balanced Robertsonian translocation. All the cell lines showed hESC markers and had the pluripotent ability to differentiate into derivatives of the three embryonic germ layers. The established lines had clonal propagation with 22-31% efficiency in the presence of ROCK inhibitor. These results further indicate that hESC lines can be derived from PGD/PGS-analyzed embryos that are destined to be discarded and can serve as an alternative source for normal euploid lines.
20869519|Studies of the urothelium, the specialized epithelial lining of the urinary bladder, are critical for understanding diseases affecting the lower urinary tract, including interstitial cystitis, urinary tract infections and cancer. However, our understanding of urothelial pathophysiology has been hampered by a lack of appropriate model systems. Here, we describe the isolation and characterization of a non-transformed urothelial cell line (TRT-HU1), originally explanted from normal tissue and immortalized with hTERT, the catalytic subunit of telomerase. We demonstrate responsiveness of the cells to anti-proliferative factor (APF), a glycopeptide implicated in the pathogenesis of interstitial cystitis. TRT-HU1 carries a deletion on the short arm of chromosome 9, an early genetic lesion in development of bladder cancer. TRT-HU1 urothelial cells displayed growth and migration characteristics similar to the low-grade papilloma cell line RT4. In contrast, we observed marked differences in both phenotype and gene expression profiles between TRT-HU1 and the highly malignant T24 cell line. Together, these findings provide the first demonstration of a non-transformed, continuous urothelial cell line that responds to APF. This cell line will be valuable for studies of both benign and malignant urothelial cell biology.
4294700|We have reported that nontransformed sublines of NIH 3T3 cells that are incubated under the growth constraint of confluence for 10 d or longer exhibit heritable reductions of growth rate upon serial subculture at low density, which simulate the effects of aging in vivo on cell growth. There is also a marked increase in the likelihood of neoplastic transformation. After switching to a new batch of calf serum (CS), we found the reduced growth rate was no longer produced within the previously established timeframe. However, substitution of fetal bovine serum (FBS) for CS during the period of recovery from confluence or the following tests of growth rate resulted in profound inhibition of growth in cells serially subcultured from confluent cultures. In some cases, fewer than one in a thousand cells from subcultures of confluent cultures formed colonies in FBS although they cloned at relatively high efficiency in CS. The reduced growth in FBS was retained in the postconfluent subcultures after many generations of multiplication at low density in CS. Generally, similar results with individual variations were obtained with three other batches of FBS. The numbers of cells per 3-d colony initiated from subcultures of confluent cultures were lower than those of control cultures that had never been confluent. Supplementation of FBS-containing medium with CS fully restored the growth of the postconfluent subcultures to the rate in CS medium, indicating that there is a deficiency of growth factor(s) in FBS rather than the presence of an inhibitor. The results show that prolonged incubation at confluence induces a populationwide heritable increase in requirement for growth factor(s) in short supply in FBS. Because clonal studies have shown that the reduction in growth rate is irreversible and varies in degree from clone to clone, we propose it arises from damage to DNA at any of many different genetic loci or from chromosome aberrations. Such genetic damage is also consistent with the increased tendency for neoplastic transformation in subcultures from the long-term confluent cultures.
20172202| An in vitro model to establish primary and subcultures of rat kidney proximal tubule (RPT) cells is described. After excising the kidneys and separating the cortex, the cortical tissue is digested with the enzymes DNAse-collagenase (Type I) resulting in a high yield of viable RPT Cells. The isolated RPT cells are then seeded onto rat tail collagen-coated surfaces and grown to confluency in a serum-free, hormonally defined medium. The cell yield can be increased by transferring the conditioned medium on Day 1 to more rat tail collagen-coated surfaces. RPT cell attachment and morphology was better on rat tail collagen-coated surfaces than on bovine collagen Type I coated surfaces. The culture medium was a 1:1 mixture of Ham's F-12 and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with bovine serum albumin, insulin, transferrin, selenium, hydrocortisone, triiodothyronine, epidermal growth factor, and glutamine. The RPT cells became confluent in 7-10 d, at which point they could be subcultured by trypsinizing and growth in the same medium. In some studies, 10 ng/ml cholera toxin was added to the culture medium. We could passage the RPT cells up to 14 times in the presence of cholera toxin. The cells were investigated for activity of several markers. The cells were histochemically positive for alkaline phosphatase and -glutamyl transpeptidase activity and synthesized the intermediate filament pankeratin. The RPT cells displayed apically directed sodium-dependent active glucose transport in culture. Hence, the RPT cells retain structural and functional characteristics of transporting renal epithelia in culture. This rat cell culture model will be a valuable tool for substrate uptake and nephrotoxicity studies. 
4295327|A partnership between the ectodomain of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) isotypes and the chains of pericellular matrix heparan sulfate determines the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and cell-type specificitives of the FGFR signaling complex. The contribution of the FGFR intracellular tyrosine kinase domains to the specificity of FGFR signaling is unclear. This report shows that the quantity and quality of phosphorylation of the FGFR kinase substrate SNT1 (also called FGFR substrate 2, FRS2) is both FGFR isotype and cell-type specific in prostate tumor epithelial cells at different stages of malignancy. Epithelial cell-resident FGFR2 that promotes homeostasis yields a low level of phosphorylated 65-kDa SNT1. Phosphorylation by ectopic FGFR1 that promotes malignancy was much more intense and yielded a phosphorylated 85-kDa SNT1. The amount of the 85-kDa SNT1 increased by 20-fold during proliferative aging of FGFRl-expressing cell populations that is required for FGFRl-stimulated mitogenesis and the malignant phenotype. In addition, the receptor-specific differential phosphorylation of SNT1 by FGFR isotypes, both of which are normally anchored to the cell membrane, occurred only in intact cells. Therefore, similar to kinase subunits within the heparan sulfate-FGFR complex, cell membrane and cytoskeletal context likely determine FGFR isotype- and cell-type-specific conformational relationships between FGFR kinases and external substrates. This determines the quantity and quality of SNT1 phosphorylation and differential signaling.
4294508|We have investigated the response of several epithelial and fibroblastic cells to a mitogenic extract of bovine milk. Cation exchange chromatography was used to produce a mitogen-rich fraction from an industrial whey source that, although comprising only 0.5% of total whey protein, contained the bulk of the growth factor activity. This fraction was a source of potent growth promoting activity for all mesodermal-derived cells tested, including human skin and embryonic lung fibroblasts, Balb/c 3T3 fibroblasts, and rat L6 myoblasts. Maximal growth of all these cell types exceeded that observed in 10% fetal bovine serum. Feline kidney and baby hamster fibroblasts and Chinese hamster ovary cells were less responsive, achieving a maximal growth response of 50-75% that observed in 10% fetal bovine serum. Maximal growth achieved in whey-extract-supplemented cultures of Balb/c 3T3 and human skin fibroblasts, and L6 myoblast cultures exceeded that seen in response to recombinant acidic or basic fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, insulin-like growth factor, or epidermal growth factor. Importantly, addition of low concentrations of fetal bovine serum to the whey-derived mitogenic fraction produced an additive response. However, concentrated milk-derived factors were found to be inhibitory to the growth of all epithelial lines tested, including rat intestinal epithelial cells, canine kidney epithelial cells, and mink lung cells. It is concluded that industrial whey extracted in this form constitutes an important source of potent growthpromoting agents for the supplementation of mesodermal-derived cell cultures.
4295128|By transfection of an expression vector of human cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) into a human hepatoma cell line (HLE), a new cell line (HLE/2E1) that stably expresses activity of CYP2E1 has been established. The HLE/2E1 cell line expressed a higher level of CYP2E1 messenger ribonucleic acid than did the mother HLE cell line. CYP2E1 enzyme activity determined by a p-nitrophenol oxidation assay was also higher in HLE/2E1 cells than in HLE cells. In addition, the enzyme activity of the HLE/2E1 cells was increased by ethanol treatment. Exposure to acetaminophen (APAP) or buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) caused a greater decrease in viability of the HLE/2E1 cells than that of the HLE cells, as determined by the 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. The cytotoxicity of APAP or BSO to HLE/2E1 cells was inhibited by the addition of ethanol or vitamin E. However, the cytotoxicity of both APAP and BSO was enhanced by 24-h preincubation of HLE/2E1 cells with ethanol. These results show that this cell line provides a useful model for studying catalytic properties of CYP2E1 and cytotoxic mechanisms of chemicals metabolized by CYP2E1.
40602773|It has been postulated that a decrease in Na, KATPase-mediated ion gradients may be a contributing mechanism to insulin secretion. However, the precise role of the Na, K-ATPase in pancreatic -cell membrane depolarization and insulin secretion signalling have been difficult to evaluate, mostly because data reporting changes in enzymatic activity have been obtained in cell homogenates or membrane preparations, lacking intact intracellular signalling pathways. The aim of this work was to develop a method to characterize Na, K-ATPase activity in intact pancreatic -cells that will allow the investigation of putative Na, K-ATPase activity regulation by glucose and its possible role in insulin secretion signalling. This work demonstrates for the first time that it is possible to determine Na, K-ATPase activity in intact pancreatic -cells and that this is a suitable method for the study of the mechanisms involved in the Na, K-ATPase regulation and eventually its relevance for insulin secretion signalling.
40928173|Crustacean neurons, obtained from the cerebral ganglion of the mud crab Scylla paramamosain, were successfully cultured in vitro. They maintained typical morphological characteristics and showed better outgrowth in modified Medium 199 (M199) medium than that in Liebowitz's L-15 medium. Fetal bovine serum (FBS), muscle extracts, and hemolymph of the mud crab S. paramamosain were added as supplements. Only 20% FBS could promote neuron outgrowth, while muscle extracts and hemolymph of S. paramamosain did not improve neuron outgrowth. For cell dissociation, both collagenase type I and trypsin worked well as determined by initial cell viability and following cell outgrowth potential. More than six kinds of cells with different morphological characteristics were identified in the neuron outgrowth. They were "small cells", "veilers", "branchers", "multipolar cells", "super-large cell", and "bipolar cells". Among all of the cells, bipolar cells were identified for the first time in crustacean neurons culture and they could live longer than other cells. The neurons could grow for more than a week before retraction and eventual degradation.
4295679|Presented here are techniques developed to culture and analyze three-dimensional (3-D) adipose-like tissues as a means to bridge the gap between current limitations in culturing preadipocytes (PAs) and that of providing clinically relevant volumes of adipose tissue useful for soft tissue engineering strategies in reconstructive surgery. Pilot studies were performed to determine techniques to visualize and analyze 3-D PA-like tissues as well as to develop successful strategies to culture 3T3-L1 cells in a high aspect ratio vessel rotating-wall bioreactor both with and without microcarriers. Next, a series of cultures were accessed to verify these techniques as well as to compare the culture of the cells with and without microcarriers. Finally, a perfused rotating-wall bioreactor was used to further investigate the nature of the aggregates or tissues being generated. The aggregates that formed in the perfused system were analyzed via histology and in vivo animal studies. PA-like tissues as large as 4-5 mm in diameter without microcarriers that were capable of lipid-loading and composed of viable cells were achieved. We have successfully demonstrated that large tissue aggregates can be grown in bioreactor culture systems.
4295066|A number of human endothelial cell lines from umbilical cord cells (HUVECs) have been generated by transfection with SV40 large T and small t antigen sequences. Comparison of these lines with primary cultures of HUVECs has been carried out by monitoring the expression of a number of endothelial cell markers with specific regard to cell age. The secreted levels of the protein plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) was found to be significantly reduced in SV40-transfected cells when compared to untransfected controls. Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA) levels were unchanged. As cells entered crisis, there was a rapid and significant increase in the levels of tPA, uPA, and PAI and this was observed for all clones screened. The endothelial cell marker von Willebrand Factor (vWF) was found intracellularly and was also secreted into the medium. The levels were not altered between transfected and untransfected cells. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity was maintained in cell lines at levels found in nonimmortalized HUVECs. Both isoforms (
4295405| The objectives of this study were to optimize a sensitive high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for fatty acid (FA) analysis for the quantification of polyunsaturated FAs (PUFAs) in cell lipid extracts and to analyze the lipid and FA patterns of three cell lines used in blood-brain barrier (BBB) models: RBE4, ECV304, and C6. Thin-layer Chromatographic analysis revealed differences in the phosphatidylcholine-phosphatidylethanolamine (PC:PE) ratios and the triglyceride (TG) content. The PC:PE ratio was <1 for RBE4 cells but >1 for ECV304 and C6 cells. ECV304 cells displayed up to 9% TG depending on culture time, whereas the other cell lines contained about 1% TG. The percentages of docosahexaenoic acid were 9.4  1.7% of the unsaturated FAs in RBE4 cells (n = 5; 4 d in culture; 9.9% after 10 d), 8.1  2.0% in ECV304 cells (n = 11; 10 to 14 d), and 6.7  0.6% in C6 cells (n = 6; 10 to 14 d) and were close to the published values for rat brain microvascular endothelium. The percentage of arachidonic acid (C20:4) was about half that in vivo. ECV304 cells contained the highest fraction of C20:4, 17.8  2.2%; RBE4 cells contained 11.6  2.4%; and C6 cells 15.8  1.9%. It is concluded that a sensitive HPLC method for FAs is now optimized for the analysis of long-chain PUFAs. The results provide a useful framework for studies on the effects of lipid modulation and give reference information for the development of further BBB models. 
24596460|It has been shown in previous studies that liver HEP-G2 cells (human hepatocellular carcinoma) lose their ability to express active alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1). Although both are ethanol-inducible enzymes, short-term exposure to ethanol does not cause any changes in expression or activity in cultured HEP-G2 cells. Therefore, we tested the effect of long-term exposure to ethanol on the expression and activity of both ADH and CYP2E1 in these cells. The expression of ADH and CYP2E1 was assessed at the mRNA and/or protein level using real-time PCR and Western blot analysis. Specific colorimetric assays were used for the measurement of ADH and CYP2E1 enzymatic activities. Caco-2 cells (active CYP2E1 and inactive ADH) were used as control cells. Significantly increased protein expression of ADH (about 2.5-fold) as well as CYP2E1 (about 1.6-fold) was found in HEP-G2 cells after long-term (12 mo) exposure to ethanol. The activity of ADH and CYP2E1 was also significantly increased from 123 and 61 nmol/h/mg of total protein to 1919 and 579 nmol/h/mg of total protein, respectively. We suggest that the loss of activity of ethanol-metabolizing enzymes in cultured HEP-G2 cells is reversible and can be induced by prolonged exposure to ethanol. We are therefore able to reactivate HEP-G2 cells metabolic functions concerning ethanol oxidation just by modification of in vitro culture conditions without necessity of transfection with its side effect  enzyme overexpression.
4295709|In order to evaluate their suitability for physiological and ecotoxicological studies, hepatocytes were isolated from the common mudpuppy (Necturus maculosus) using a two-step collagenase perfusion. Hepatocytes in primary culture were investigated for 14 d using light and electron microscopy and biochemical analyses. A typical perfusion yielded
4294950|We designed a new tissue-engineered skin equivalent in which complete pilosebaceous units were integrated. This model was produced exclusively from human fibroblasts and keratinocytes and did not contain any synthetic material. Fibroblasts were cultured for 35 d with ascorbic acid and formed a thick fibrous sheet in the culture dish. The dermal equivalent was composed of stacked fibroblast sheets and exhibited some ultrastructural organization found in normal connective tissues. Keratinocytes seeded on this tissue formed a stratified and cornified epidermis and expressed typical markers of differentiation (keratin 10, filaggrin, and transglutaminase). After 4 wk of culture, a continuous and ultrastructurally organized basement membrane was observed and associated with the expression of laminin and collagen IV and VII. Complete pilosebaceous units were obtained by thermolysin digestion and inserted in this skin equivalent in order to assess the role of the transfollicular route in percutaneous absorption. The presence of hair follicles abolished the lag-time observed during hydrocortisone diffusion and increased significantly its rate of penetration in comparison to the control (skin equivalent with sham hair insertion). Therefore, this new hairy human skin equivalent model allowed an experimental design in which the only variable was the presence of pilosebaceous units and provided new data confirming the importance of hair follicles in percutaneous absorption.
4295011|A continuous cell line has been established from larval fat body tissues of the cerambycid beetle Xylotrechus pyrrhoderus Bates. These cells were cultured in MGM-450 medium. The cell line, designated as XP-1, showed a heterogeneous population consisting of spherical and spindle-shaped cells with some capacity to adhere and a doubling time of 5 d. The chromosome number of the cell line ranged from 18 to 42 with a mode of 20. Isozyme analysis showed that the cells had patterns distinctive from those of other insect cell lines. The cells were sensitive to insect hormones, and when continuously treated with 20-hydroxyecdysone and juvenile hormone, they assumed a floating elongated-spindle shape and became strongly adherent, respectively.
4295671|Microgravity induces stress, and the brain is one of the targets that is more influenced in this environment. Alteration in transcription factors can have enormous effect because of discrepancy in the signaling process of the cells. Activator protein-1 (AP-1) is a stress-regulated transcription factor and is involved in the regulation of physiological and pathological stimuli that include cytokines, growth factors, and stress signals. In the present study, an attempt has been made to observe the effect of a microgravity environment on the activation of AP-1 in the mouse brain. Our results show that AP-1 transcription factor is activated in simulated microgravity conditions in different regions of the brain. The activation of the AP-1 is dependent upon the increased kinase activity of
40205841|ES mice that are derived completely from embryonic stem (ES) cells can be obtained by tetraploid embryo complementation. Many neonate ES mice die because of respiratory distress, but it is not clear what contributes to the phenomenon. Using five microsatellite DNA markers, we confirmed that our ES mice were completely derived from ES cells and contained no tetraploid component. The neonatal ES mice that exhibited respiratory distress were tested for surfactant protein B (SPB) expression by Western blotting. These mice had no SP-B expression, and even apparently healthy adult ES mice had decreased SP-B levels and aberrant SP-B phenotypes. These data suggest that the expression of SP-B protein is an important factor in the survival of ES mice to term and adulthood.
4294822| We have established a multipotent clonal cell line, named MEB5, from embryonic mouse forebrains after the infection of a retrovirus carrying E7 oncogene of human papillomavirus type 16. MEB5 cells proliferated in serum-free, epidermal growth factor (EGF)-supplemented medium. They expressed markers for neural precursor cells (nestin, A2B5, and RC1) and did not express markers for neurons (class III -tubulin), astrocytes (glial fibrillary acidic protein), and oligodendrocytes (galactocerebroside). MEB5 cells were stably maintained in an undifferentiated state with a diploid karyotype in the presence of EGF. When they were deprived of EGF, about 50% of the cells died due to apoptosis within 24 h. The remaining cells differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes within 2 wk. The newly developed cells with neuronal morphology were immunoreactive for -aminobutyric acid and exhibited neuronal electrophysiological properties. When MEB5 cells were treated with leukemia inhibitory factor for 7 d, they were induced to differentiate exclusively into astrocytes. These results indicate that MEB5 is a cell line with characteristics of EGF-dependent, multipotent neural precursor cells. This cell line should provide a good model system to study the mechanisms of survival, proliferation, and differentiation of the multipotent precursor cells in the central nervous system. 
4295338| Controlling the specific differentiation of stem cells (SCs) is a goal sought by many because of the benefits it would yield for repair or replacement of damaged tissues and organs. We report the discovery of signaling complexes and describe their use in predictably guiding the differentiation of mouse and human SCs. The signaling complexes (Signalplexes [S-ps]) induce mouse and human SCs to express specific phenotypes. The S-ps have been used to identify a new source of human SCs (Hu abba-1) and have been shown to induce differentiation of multiple tissue-specific phenotypes selectively in mouse pluripotent embryonic cells as well as in Hu abba-1 cells. Endocrine and exocrine pancreas, liver, lung, kidney, heart, cartilage, bone, and other cell types have been induced in SCs by S-ps, as shown by morphology, immunostaining, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. 
4295303| The cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) generator choleratoxin is known to promote the growth of sebaceous epithelial cells (sebocytes) in monolayer culture in classical serum-containing media. Now that sebocytes can be grown in serum-free medium, we have examined whether choleratoxin or other cAMP generators are required for differentiation of rat preputial sebocytes in response to specific ligand activators of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). Unexpectedly, choleratoxin reduced sebocyte proliferation. However, sebocyte differentiation in response to specific PPAR- and PPAR agonists required a cAMP generator such as choleratoxin, and this response was suppressed by a protein kinase A inhibitor. In contrast, the stable prostacyclin analog, carbaprostacyclin (cPGI2), a PPAR, agonist that also generates cAMP, stimulated differentiation independently of choleratoxin. Furthermore, unlike the selective PPAR and PPAR agonists, cPGI2 stimulated both sebocyte DNA synthesis and proliferation. These data are compatible with the evidence that prostacyclin has the additional effect of generating cAMP. In addition, we addressed the possibility that choleratoxin may act as a surrogate for -adrenergic catecholamines in generating cAMP. In contrast with choleratoxin, both - and -adrenergic catecholamines stimulated sebocyte growth and interfered with the choleratoxin effect on differentiation. These data suggest ligand-dependent, complex interactions between cAMP and the other signal transduction pathways involved in sebocyte growth and development. 
4295694|Osteoclasts are bone-resorbing cells that differentiate from macrophage precursors in response to receptor activator of NF- B ligand (RANKL). In vitro models of osteoclast differentiation are principally based on primary cell cultures, which are poorly suited to molecular and transgene studies because of the limitations associated with the use of primary macrophage. RAW264.7 is a transfectable macrophage cell line with the capacity to form osteoclast-like cells. In the present study, we have identified osteoclast precursors among clones of RAW264.7 cells. RAW264.7 cell were cloned by limiting dilution and induced to osteoclast differentiation by treatment with recombinant RANKL. Individual RAW264.7 cell clones formed tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-positive multinuclear cells to various degrees with RANKL treatment. All clones tested expressed the RANKL receptor RANK. Each of the clones expressed the osteoclast marker genes TRAP and cathepsin-K mRNA with RANKL treatment. However, we noted that only select clones were able to form large, well-spread, TRAP-positive multinuclear cells. Clones capable of forming large TRAP-positive multinuclear cells also expressed 
4295525|Embryonic stem (ES) cells are pluripotent cells derived from the inner cell mass of blastocysts. These cells are appropriate for creation of animal models of human genetic diseases, the study of gene function in vivo and differentiation into specific types as potential therapeutic agents for several human diseases. We describe here, the production of new ES cell lines from blastocysts recovered from the C57BL/6 and BALB/c mouse strains by changing the concentration of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and primary culture conditions. The established cell lines were analyzed by simple karyotype, C banding, alkaline phosphatase activity, and Oct-4 expression as well as for the presence of the SRY gene. Two ES cell lines from C57BL/6 and three from the BALB/c were produced. The two C57BL/6 ES cell lines were established with either 1000 or 5000 IU LIF, whereas the BALB/c ES cell lines required 5000 IU LIF. Four of the ES cell lines had a normal karyotype. C banding and sex-determining region of Y chromosome-polymerase chain reaction showed that all cell lines had an XY sex chromosome composition. All five of the cell lines expressed alkaline phosphatase activity and Oct-4. One of the BALB/c ES cell lines, when injected into C57BL/6 blastocysts, produced high rates of chimerism as assessed by coat color, and the male chimera produced germ-line offspring when mated with BALB/c females. These results indicate that ES cells from inbred strains can be isolated using commercially available reagents and that the establishment of BALB/c ES cell lines may require different culture conditions to the 129 or C57BL/6 strains.
23481757|During Xenopus laevis metamorphosis, larval-to-adult muscle conversion depends on the differential responses of adult and larval myogenic cells to thyroid hormone. Essential differences in cell growth, differentiation, and hormone-dependent life-or-death fate have been reported between cultured larval (tail) and adult (hindlimb) myogenic cells. A previous study revealed that tail notochord cells suppress terminal differentiation in adult (but not larval) myogenic cells. However, little is known about the differences in expression patterns of myogenic regulatory factors (MRF) and the satellite cell marker Pax7 between adult and larval myogenic cells. In the present study, we compared mRNA expression of these factors between the two types. At first, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis of hindlimb buds showed sequential upregulation of myf5, myogenin, myod, and mrf4 during stages 5054, when limb buds elongate and muscles begin to form. By contrast, in the tail, there was no such increase during the same period. Secondary, these results were duplicated in vitro: adult myogenic cells upregulated myf5, myod, and pax7 in the early culture period, followed by myogenin upregulation and myotube differentiation, while larval myogenic cells did not upregulate these genes and precociously started myotube differentiation. Thirdly, myf5 upregulation and early-phase proliferation in adult myogenic cells were potently inhibited by the presence of notochord cells, suggesting that notochord cells suppress adult myogenesis through inhibiting the transition from Myf5 - stem cells to Myf5 + committed myoblasts. All of the data presented here suggest that myf5 upregulation can be a good criterion for the activation of adult myogenesis during X. laevis metamorphosis.
23353404|This study was aimed to establish a buffalo mammary epithelial cells (BuMECs) line and maintain it for long-term by subculturing. BuMECs isolated from lactating buffalo mammary glands were cultured on a collagen matrix gel. BuMECs expressed significant amounts of the epithelial cell specific marker cytokeratin 18 as determined by immunohistochemistry. The BuMECs displayed monolayer, cobble-stone morphology, and formed lumen-, dome-, and duct-like structures. Furthermore, they were capable of synthesizing CSN2, BLG, ACACA, and BTN1A1, showed viability after thawing and expressed milk protein genes. The enhanced green fluorescent protein gene was transferred successfully into the BuMECs using lipofection method and the transfected cells could be maintained for long-term in culture by subculturing.
4295498|The aim of this study was to establish a standard flow cytometric method to measure the phagocytic function of and intracellular hydrogen peroxide (H
4294027|Alphatogaviruses, of which Sindbis virus (SV) is the prototype, replicate to high titer in the laboratory both in mosquito cells and in vertebrate cells. By studying the replication of SV in mosquito cells as well as in vertebrate cells, we were able to obtain several viral mutants which have novel phenotypes and have contributed to our basic knowledge of this virus family. These include three host range mutants:
4294238|A mixture containing an ultrafiltrate fraction (UF) of bovine colostrum (6.7%), adult bovine serum (BS) (1%), and human holo-transferrin (hTF) (5 mg/liter) was developed for cultivation of Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO-K1) and African green monkey kidney cells (Vero). The growth-supporting activity of the mixture (UF/BS/hTF) was comparable to that of 1 to 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and considerably better than 1 to 2% BS. Cells could be directly seeded from FBS-supplemented medium to UF/BS/hTF-supplemented medium without any weaning period, even at initial plating density of 1700 cells/ml. Vero and CHO-K1 cells were cultivated in UF/BS/hTF-supplemented media for up to 43 days without any apparent reduction in growth. The UF/BS/hTF mixture could also be used as a freezing medium. Cells were passaged twice in the mixture, frozen, and stored at liquid N
4294578|Cisplatin (CDDP)-sensitive and -resistant human ovarian cells were studied in vitro with the objective of enhancing CDDP cytotoxicity by the addition of a metal and the chelate ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), to the CDDP. Chelateable elements, such as bismuth, calcium, cadmium, copper, iron, magnesium, selenium, vanadium, and zinc, when added to CDDP and in the presence of EDTA increased the cytotoxicity of the CDDP as compared to CDDP treatment alone.
24712903|Magnolia species have been used for the treatment of allergic diseases in Asia as folk medicine; however, the cellular and molecular mechanisms of its anti-allergic effects have rarely been investigated. In this study, we demonstrated that a methanolic extract of the fructus of Magnolia denudata has suppressive effects on Th2 cytokine production such as IL-4 and IL-13, but not IFN- and IL-17, produced by both phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate/ionomycin (PI)- and CD3/CD28-stimulated EL-4 T cells. Moreover, the mRNA expression of Th2 cytokines was significantly inhibited, and luciferase activity in cells transiently transfected with IL-4 or IL-13 promoter reporter plasmids was suppressed by M. denudata, indicating that M. denudata may regulate these expression at the transcriptional level. Western blot analysis for transcription factors involved in the cytokine gene expression indicated that the activation of c-Jun was significantly downregulated in the nucleus of cells, while the activations of nuclear factor of activated T cells, nuclear factor kappa B and c-Fos, were not affected. Furthermore, the mRNA expression and nuclear translocation of GATA-binding protein 3, a key transcriptional factor for Th2 commitment and Th2 cytokine expression, but not T-bet and RORt, were dramatically downregulated by M. denudata. Treatment with M. denudata suppressed the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase; however, the PI-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-related kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase was unaffected. Taken together, our study indicated that M. denudata inhibited IL-4 and IL-13 expression, possibly through regulation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation and selective transcription factors, such as GATA-3 and c-Jun, in EL-4 T cells.
4294290|The protective influence of bovine serum albumin against growth inhibition caused by fatty acids was studied in human hepatoma (HepG2) and immortalized human kidney epithelial (IHKE) cells. In general, growth inhibition by unsaturated fatty acids (0.15 mmol/liter) increased with increasing number of double bonds. For HepG2 cells crude albumin (1 g/100 ml) did not greatly modify growth inhibition by arachidonic, eicosapentaenoic, and docosahexaenoic acid. With oleic, linoleic, and linolenic acids, crude and defatted albumin stimulated cell growth. In contrast, for IHKE cells both albumins counteracted growth inhibition by unsaturated fatty acids to approximately the same extent. When HepG2 cells were cultured in the presence of saturated fatty acids (0.3 mmol/liter), C2, C6, and C8 had no or little inhibitory effect. C10 and C12 inhibited cell growth appreciably, whereas C14, and especially C16, had poor inhibitory effects. Crude albumin counteracted growth inhibition by all these fatty acids. In contrast, defatted albumin had little or no effect (except against C10 and C12), and even increased the growth inhibition by C1.4 and C16. With unsaturated fatty acids there seemed to be an inverse relationship between cell growth and the concentration of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in media. Vitamin E abolished growth inhibition (and the increase in TBARS concentration) by unsaturated fatty acids. The complex interaction between fatty acids and albumins calls for great caution when interpreting data on growth effects.
4295544|Previously, it was shown that SV40-indueed cell transformation of human diploid (2N), epithelial cells was a dynamic process of nuclear and cellular events. In this process, nuclei of polyploid (above 2N) cells broke down into multinucleated cells (MNCs) by amitotic division. An induced mass karyoplast (i.e., small cell with reduced amount of cytoplasm) budding process from the MNCs produced transformed cells with extended life span (EL) and altered morphology. In this study, without the use of SV40 and no induction of karyoplast budding, the same sequence of cellular events was found to occur spontaneously for the same type of cells at replicative senescence (no mitosis). These cell transformation events were followed by phase-contrast photography of living cell cultures. Primary, diploid, epithelial cell cultures grew for two to three passages and then entered senescence. Cells remaining in the cultures after widespread cell death (mortality stage 1; M1) developed the typical large, flat-cell morphology of senescence with increased cytoplasmic volume. Some of these cells were MNCs, mostly with two to four nuclei. Cytokinesis in MNCs and spontaneous karyoplast budding from MNCs were observed, and new, limited EL cell growth was present either in foci of cells or as prolonged cell growth over one to two passages. At the end of their replicative phase, the EL cells entered another death crisis (M2) from which no cells survived. In M2-crisis, rarely transformed cells appear with immortal cell growth characteristics (i.e., cell lines). Numerous examples of fragmentation or amitosis of polyploid nuclei in the production of multinucleated cells (MNCs) are presented. Such nuclear divisions produced nuclei with unequal sizes, which suggest unbalanced chromosomal segregations. The nuclear and cellular events in cell transformation are compared with a natural (no induction) occurrence of MNC-offspring cells in mammalian placentas. The possibility of a connection between these two processes is discussed. And finally the difference in the duration of EL cell growth from SV40-MINCs versus from senescent-MlNCs is ascribed to increased mutational load in SV40-induced MNCs as compared with that in senescence MNCs.
4294555| Endothelial and smooth muscle cells were harvested from porcine pulmonary arteries and grown to two passages from primary culture in serum-containing medium. Thereafter, the cells were plated on the opposite sides of a microporous poly(ethylene terephthalate) membrane and cultivated in a chemically defined, serum-free medium. The membrane with pores of 1 m diameter allowed the passage of molecules and the extension of cell processes, while maintaining separate homogeneous cell populations. Pores of 3 m diameter permitted the crossing of smooth muscle cells through the membrane. The coating of the polymer with constituents of the extracellular matrix optimized cell adhesion. Morphological analysis of the model showed typical cobblestone pattern and ultrastructure of endothelial cells, which lost rapidly the expression of von Willebrand factor but kept that of angiotensin-converting enzyme. Smooth muscle cells were spindle shaped and specific -actin was revealed by immunochemistry and quantitated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Their ultra-structure featured an intermediate contractile-synthetic phenotype. Permeability studies to different molecules showed a marked reduction of the albumin clearance. Finally, in coculture in the presence of endothelial cells, the smooth muscle cells proliferation was increased, whereas it was not the case in autologous cocultures. In conclusion, such a coculture model may help to a better understanding of the interactions between endothelial and smooth muscle cells that may be important in the pathogenesis of vascular diseases. 
40663802|The conventional method for the derivation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) involves inner cell mass (ICM) co-culture with a feeder layer of inactivated mouse or human embryonic fibroblasts in an in vitro fertilisation culture dish. Growth factors potentially involved in primary derivation of hESCs may be lost or diluted in such a system. We established a microdrop method which maintained feeder cells and efficiently generated hESCs. Embryos were donated for stem cell research after fully informed patient consent. A feeder cell layer was made by incubating inactivated mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) feeder cells in a 50 l drop of medium (DMEM/10% foetal calf serum) under mineral oil in a small tissue culture dish. MEFs formed a confluent layer and medium was replaced with human embryonic stem medium supplemented with 10% Plasmanate (Bayer) and incubated overnight. Cryopreserved embryos were thawed and cultured until the blastocyst stage and the zona pellucida removed with pronase (2 mg/ml; Calbiochem). A zona-free intact blastocyst was placed in the feeder microdrop and monitored for ES derivation with medium changed every 2-3 d. Proliferating hESCs were passaged into other feeder drops and standard feeder preparation by manual dissection until a stable cell line was established. Six hESC lines (Shef 3-8) were derived. From a total of 46 blastocysts (early to expanded), five hESC lines were generated (Shef 3-7). Shef 3-6 were generated on MEFs from 25 blastocysts. Shef7 was generated on human foetal gonadal embryonic fibroblasts from a further 21 blastocysts. From our experience, microdrop technique is more efficient than conventional method for derivation of hESCs and it is much easier to monitor early hESC derivation. The microdrop method lends itself to good manufacturing practice derivation of hESCs.
4294210|Retinoic acid (RA) has dramatic effects on limb-skeletal patterning in vivo and may well play a pivotal role in normal limb morphogenesis. RA's effects on the expression of pattern-related genes in the developing limb are probably mediated by cytoplasmic RA-binding proteins and nuclear RA-receptors. Little is known, however, about how RA modifies specific cellular behaviors required for skeletal morphogenesis. Earlier studies supported a role for regional differences in RA concentration in generating the region-specific cell behaviors that lead to pattern formation. The present study explores the possibility that position-related, cell-autonomous differences in the way limb mesenchymal cells respond to RA might have a role in generating pattern-related cell behavior. Mesenchymal cells from different proximodistal regions of stage 21-22 and 23-24 chick wing-buds were grown in chemically defined medium and exposed to 5 or 50 ng/ml of RA for 4 days in high-density microtiter cultures. The effects of RA on chondrogenesis in these cultures clearly differed depending on the limb region from which the cells were isolated. Regional differences in RA's effects on growth over 4 days in these cultures were less striking. The region-dependent responses of these cells to RA proved relatively stable in culture despite ongoing cytodifferentiation. This serum-free culture model will be useful in exploring the mechanisms underlying the region-dependent responsiveness of these cells to RA.
41408867|The potential protective role of Tribulus terrestris in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity in Oreochromis mossambicus was investigated. The effect of oral exposure of acetaminophen (500 mg/kg) in O. mossambicus at 24-h duration was evaluated. The plant extract (250 mg/kg) showed a remarkable hepatoprotective activity against acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity. It was judged from the tissue-damaging level and antioxidant levels in liver, gill, muscle and kidney tissues. Further acetaminophen impact induced a significant rise in the tissue-damaging level, and the antioxidant level was discernible from the enzyme activity modulations such as glutamate oxaloacetic transaminase, glutamate pyruvic transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, acid phosphatase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, Superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glutathione S-transferase, lipid peroxidase and reduced glutathione. The levels of all these enzymes have significantly (p<0.05) increased in acetaminophen-treated fish tissues. The elevated levels of these enzymes were significantly controlled by the treatment of T. terrestris extract (250 kg/mg). Histopathological changes of liver, gill and muscle samples were compared with respective controls. The results of the present study specify the hepatoprotective and antioxidant properties of T. terrestris against acetaminophen-induced toxicity in freshwater fish, O. mossambicus.
4295455|We have reported morphological and functional features of cells isolated from human bronchial biopsies. Both epithelial and fibroblastic cells were isolated from the same biopsies using collagenase. A few models have been established to study normal bronchial response to various agents and to understand the mechanisms responsible for some disorders, such as asthma. We produced three-dimensional bronchial equivalents in culture, using human epithelial and fibroblastic cells. We previously showed that peripheral anchorage can prevent the dramatic collagen contraction in gels seeded with fibroblasts when properly adapted to the size and type of cultured tissues. Our bilayered bronchial constructs were anchored and cultured under submerged conditions and at the air-liquid interface. Three culture media were compared. Serum-free medium supplemented with retinoic acid (
4295482|The cytotoxic activity of short-chain (C
4295414|Treatment with fat body extract (FBX) from pupae of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, caused mortality in larvae of two pest lepidopterans, the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar, and the cotton leafworm, Spodoptera littoralis. In FBX-treated larvae, the feeding rate was depressed, causing reduced weight gain and then larval death. Their midgut showed formation of multicellular layers of midgut epidermis, indicating stem-cell hyperplasia. Hence, the integument of FBX-treated larvae had a double cuticle, indicating induction of premature molting. But radioimmunoassay measurements confirmed that the amount of ecdysteroids in FBX was too low to be responsible for the molt-inducing effects observed after treatment with FBX. With midgut stem cell cultures in vitro, addition of FBX to the culture medium stimulated cell proliferation and differentiation in a concentration-dependent manner. This effect was compared with those of insect molting hormones, ecdysone and 20-hydroxyecdysone; an ecdysteroid agonist, RH-2485; and a purified protein from FBX (multiplication factor). This article describes the mode of action of FBX and possible interplay between fat body factor(s) and insect hormones in the development and metamorphosis of the insect midgut.
40205931|The umbilical cord represents the link between mother and fetus during pregnancy. This cord is usually discarded as a biological waste after the child's birth; however, its importance as a "store house" of stem cells has been explored recently. We developed a method of simultaneous isolation of endothelial cells (ECs) from the vein and mesenchymal stem cells from umbilical cord Wharton's jelly of the same cord. The isolation protocol has been simplified, modified, and improvised with respect to choice of enzyme and enzyme mixture, digestion time, cell yield, cell growth, and culture medium. Isolated human umbilical vascular ECs (hUVECs) were positive for von-Willibrand factor, a classical endothelial marker, and could form capillary-like structures when seeded on Matrigel, thus proving their functionality. The isolated human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCMSCs) were found positive for CD44, CD90, CD 73, and CD117 and were found negative for CD33, CD34, CD45, and CD 105 surface markers; they were also positive for cytoskeleton markers of smooth muscle actin and vimentin. The hUCMSCs showed multilineage differentiation potential and differentiated into adipogenic, chondrogenic, osteogenic, and neuronal lineages under influence of lineage specific differentiation medium. Thus, isolating endothelial cells as well as mesenchymal cells from the same umbilical cord could lead to complete utilization of the available tissue for the tissue engineering and cell therapy.
40205949|Gray horses spontaneously develop metastatic melanomas that resemble human disease, and this is often accompanied with metastasis to other organs. Unlike in other species, the establishment of primary equine melanoma cultures that could be used to develop new therapeutic approaches has remained a major challenge. The purpose of the study was to develop a protocol for routine isolation and cultivation of primary equine melanocytes. Melanoma tissues were excised from 13 horses under local anesthesia, mainly from the perianal area. The melanoma cells were isolated from the melanoma tissue by serial enzymatic digestion using dispase and collagenase. Out of the 13 excised melanomas, cell cultures from eight melanomas were established, which corresponded to a success rate 62%. These cells showed different degrees of melanin pigmentation. Characterization of these cells using confocal microscopy, FACs analysis and western blotting showed that they expressed melanoma-associated antigens; Melan-A, MAGE-1, and MAGE-3, and PCNA expression was higher in fast-proliferating isolates. The protocol we developed and established proved successful for routine isolation and cultivation of primary equine melanoma cells. This method provided a large number of primary equine melanoma cells that could be used to study new therapeutic approaches for treatment of equine melanomas.
20460119|Under normal growth conditions, in vitro dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMEC) retain an epithelioid morphology and do not synthesize matrix proteins found increased in scar tissue. When injured by a standard scratch, cells at the wound edge and within the culture transform into spindle-shaped, myofibroblast-like cells. To determine if the transformed cells synthesize matrix proteins, expression of type I collagen and alpha smooth muscle actin (-SMA) was investigated by immunohistochemistry and quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Twelve hours following injury, a major upregulation in expression of -SMA and type I collagen was observed both in cells proximal and distal to the wound edge. Cells with the typical morphology of myofibroblasts and displaying intracellular -SMA positive fibrils were observed in HDMEC throughout the culture. In contrast, type IV collagen, a basement membrane protein, was not detected in migrating cells. Following completion of wound repair (24-36 h), type I collagen was no longer expressed and type IV collagen synthesis increased to prewound levels. Quantitative RT-PCR confirmed the changes in gene expression for both type I collagen and -SMA at each time point during repair. These results demonstrate that normal skin microvascular endothelial cells retain an ability to transform into myofibroblast-like cells when injured and to synthesize matrix proteins not expressed in noninjured cells. The synthesis of matrix proteins by injured endothelial cells suggests a direct role for the endothelium in the pathology of scar formation.
41318687|Previous studies reported that astrocyte response to amyloid- (A) before obvious neuronal damage could be detected in Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is suggested that astrocytes play a key role in AD pathologies. In this study, we investigated the effects of A oligomer on the proliferation and activation of astrocytes by in vitro experiments. The results showed that A oligomers could convert astrocytes to responsive astrocytes. It was revealed by MTT and ELISA assays that the viability of astrocytes gradually decreased, and the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor increased with elevated A 42 concentration and prolonged duration. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay indicated that A oligomers increased the expression of glial fibers acid protein and interleukin-1 in a dose-dependent but not time-dependent manner. It was showed that A8, a mouse monoclonal antibody, was able to protect the cultured astrocytes against the toxicity of A oligomers. The result demonstrated that A8 could inhibit A oligomers toxic effects on astrocytes and that, alone, A8 could promote the proliferation of astrocytes in certain time. The present study laid a theoretical foundation for further understanding the effects of A on astrocytes and, hence, is conducive to the theoretical understanding and clinical therapies of AD progression.
4294527|A novel human prostatic stromal cell culture, designated DuK50, has been passed in vitro > 12 mo. Tissue cultures were obtained from material harvested within a normal region of a radical prostatectomy specimen. These monolayers exhibited normal fibroblastic characteristics with each cell having a flattened, elongated appearance. Karyotypic analysis revealed a normal, male 46, XY chromosomal content with no numerical or structural abnormalities. DNA analysis using a Cell Analysis Systems Image Analyzer confirmed a euploid DNA content (7.9 pg DNA). Cellular markers for verification of stromal cell type were performed by immunohistochemical techniques. DuK50 stained positive for vimentin and fibronectin. Immunostains for epithelial cytokeratins and prostate-specific antigen were negative, Which ruled out contamination with prostatic epithelial cells. Negative immunostaining with desmin monoclonal antibody and light staining with smooth muscle actin alpha is consistent with the staining pattern of myofibroblasts. Response to various androgens, measured by a microculture tetrazolium assay technique, revealed a significant growth stimulation of DuK50. Soft agar invasiveness assays and tumorigenicity studies in nude mice were negative. DuK50 exhibits a rapid doubling time with excellent plating efficiency, thrives in a readily available media supplemented with fetal bovine serum, and passes with routine trypsin protocols. The availability of this prostatic stromal cell culture may facilitate studies on this cell type's role in growth factor modulation, drug and steroid metabolism, and stromal-epithelial interactions in the prostate.
4294342|The objective of these studies was to develop serum-free culture conditions for dissociated acini from rat submandibular glands. Acini were isolated from the submandibular glands of 42-46 d old rats and cultured on reconstituted rat tail collagen containing laminin in 1:1 Ham's F12 and Dulbecco's media, supplemented with BSA, transferrin, insulin, T
20616550|Infections of two heterologous insect cell lines derived from Malacosoma disstria (Md108) and Choristoneura fumiferana (Cf70) by the Lambdina fiscellaria lugubrosa nucleopolyhedrovirus (LafiNPV-W) were characterized. Cytopathic effects characteristic of LafiNPV-W infection, including rounding of cells, nuclear hypertrophy, and occlusion body (OB) production, were observed in both cell lines. Budded virus titers were slightly higher in Md108 cells than Cf70 cells (5.810 versus 3.110 TCID units mL). Viral replication kinetics and cytopathic effects induced by LafiNPV-W infection were very similar in both cell lines. Actin rearrangements and redistribution of heterochromatin and euchromatin were observed within 24 h post-inoculation (hpi), and large quantities of nucleocapsids and virions were observed by electron microscopy at 48 hpi in both cell lines. Cf70 cultures produced OBs with numerous embedded virions, while OBs in Md108 cultures contained few virions or were empty with nucleocapsids packed in the nucleoplasm between OBs. In bioassays against second instar L. fiscellaria lugubrosa, OBs derived from LafiNPV-W-infected Md108 cells induced significantly lower levels of mortality than OBs derived from LafiNPV-W-infected Cf70 cells or from infected L. fiscellaria fiscellaria larvae.
4295423|Xenopus laevis A6 cells, which are cloned epithelial cells from the Xenopus kidney, differentiate into a dome structure when the cells reach confluence. We investigated the gravitational responses of A6 cellular motility during normal differentiation and differentiation under hypergravity conditions using centrifugation (1-100 x g). Progression to dome formation was analyzed by time-lapse micrography. Dome formation and increased expression of
20172140| The plasmid pMK16 containing-SV40 replicated origin defective gene was efficiently introduced into early-passage human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) using positively charged liposomes. The resulting cell line acquired an almost infinite lifespan, was morphologically unchanged, expressed SV40-antigen, and coexpressed von Willebrand factor (vWF), tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), angiotensin conversion enzyme (ACE), and endothelin converting enzyme (ECE). In addition, these are the first immortalized human endothelial cells, to our knowledge, that biosynthesized and secreted interleukins (IL-1 and IL-6) in both a constitutive and regulated fashion and endothelin-1 (ET-1), the most potent vasoactive peptide, which has been suggested to be implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertension. Interestingly enough, both of the immortalized cells and the early-passage HUVEC from which the immortalized cells were obtained biosynthesized and secreted the same levels of ET-1 suggesting full maintenance of its biosynthetic pathway including the presence of active ECE, which cleaves big endothelin-1 (big-ET-1) to ET-1 and regulation factors. Moreover, the immortalized cells retained the ability to express the functional specific amino acid Na-independent system Y transporter, which mediates L-arginine transport into endothelial cells from which endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF, nitric oxide) is formed via the action of nitric oxide-synthase. Obtaining these immortalized human endothelial cells without alteration of the differentiated characteristics constitutes a useful model: (a) to study ET-1 secretion, gene regulation, and human ECE, which may be an important therapeutic target in disease conditions in which ET-1 is to be implicated; (b) to study L-arginine transport, which is a key step in the formation of EDRF; (c) to study IL-1 and IL-6 secretions, and gene regulations; (d) to substitute large quantities of HUVEC; and, finally, (e) to reproduce, starting with different primary endothelial cells both from human and animal origin. 
40205919|Some functional parameters were identified and assessed in a tissue-engineered self-assembled skin substitute. This skin substitute was produced using fbroblasts and keratinocytes isolated from adult human skin. Keratinocytes were seeded on a dermal layer, composed of two fibroblast sheets cultured for 35 d. The epidermal cells formed a stratified and cornified epidermis and expressed differentiation markers, notably involucrin and transglutaminase. Interestingly and for the first time, the receptor for vitamin D3 was detected in all of the epidermal cell layers of the skin substitute, as it is reported for normal human skin. This observation suggests that keratinocytes retain key receptors during their differentiation in the skin model. A network of collagen fibers was observed by electron microscopy in the dermal layer of the model. In the dermis, collagen fibers remodeling and assembly is dependent on enzymes, notably prolyl-4-hydroxylase. For the first time in a skin construct, the expression of prolyl-4-hydroxylase was detected in dermal fibroblasts by in situ hybridization. The secretion of collagenases by the cells seeded in our skin substitute was confirmed by zymography. We conclude that the self-assembly approach allows the maintenance of several functional activities of human skin cells in a skin model in vitro.
4294805|Two bone-marrow-derived macrophage cell lines, C2D and C2Dt, were isolated from major histocompatibility class II-negative knock-out mice. The C2D cell line was stabilized by continuous culture in colony-stimulating factor-1 and the C2Dt cell line was transformed with SV40 virus large T antigen. These cells exhibited phenotypic properties of macrophages including morphology and expression of Mac 1 and Mac 2 cell surface molecules. These cells also had comparable growth to the bone-marrow-derived macrophage cell line B6MP102. These new cell lines were not spontaneously cytotoxic and were only capable of modest killing of F5b tumor cells when stimulated with LPS and interferon-y, but not when stimulated with LPS alone or with staphylococcal exotoxin. C2D and C2Dt cells phagocytosed labeled Staphylococcus aureus similarly to B6MP102 cells but less well than C2D peritoneal macrophages. These cell lines secreted interleukin-6, but not tumor necrosis factor or nitric oxide in response to LPS or staphylococcal enterotoxins A or B. C2Dt cells were tumorigenic in C2D and C57BL/6J mice but C2D cells were not. These data suggest that macrophage cell lines can be established from bone marrow cells of major histocompatibility complex II-negative mice.
4294818|Stromal-epithelial interactions are pivotal in many aspects of prostatic biology. A defined culture system is critical for the investigation of factors that regulate the growth and differentiation of human prostatic stromal cells. We have identified conditions which promote stromal cell attachment and proliferation in serum-free medium. MCDB 201, originally developed for the clonal growth of chick embryo fibroblasts, proved to be a superior basal medium of those that we tested. Supplementation of MCDB 201 with basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) permitted attachment and exponential growth of cells throughout a 7-d period with an initial inoculum as low as 10
40802406|Daptomycin is a lipopeptide antibiotic that has strong bactericidal activity against Gram-positive bacteria and that was previously reported to exhibit minor side effects on skeletal muscle. This study was designed to further characterize the effect of daptomycin on skeletal muscle through the use of primary cultures of muscles from rats. Our investigations demonstrated that daptomycin has a concentration-dependent and time-dependent effect on the plasma membrane of primary cultures of differentiated, spontaneously contracting rat myotubes. No effects were evident in non-differentiated myoblasts or other mononucleated cells present in cultures even at the highest daptomycin concentrations tested (6,000 g/mL). In cultures treated with daptomycin at a concentration of 2,000 g/mL, plasma membrane damage was observed in ~ 20-30% of differentiated myotubes; no myotube damage was detected at concentrations of 1,000 g/mL and below. A transient loss of spontaneous myotube contractions was evident at 750 g/mL, while at 2,000 g/mL and above, a permanent loss of spontaneous contractility was observed. These results suggest that the putative targets for daptomyein effects on skeletal muscle are structures on the plasma membrane of highly differentiated myotubes.
20172189| The regulation of megakaryopoeisis by cytokines is not yet well understood. It is possible that autocrine loops are established during megakaryocyte growth and differentiation, aiding in the maturation of these cells. The CHRF-288-11 human megakaryoblastic cell line has been examined for cytokine production in growing cells and cells stimulated to differentiate by the addition of phorbol esters. It has been demonstrated that these cells produce RNA corresponding to the interleukins IL-1,1, 3, 7, 8, and 11, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), stem cell factor (SCF), transforming growth factor- (TGF-), tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), interferon- (INF-), and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). Additionally, RNA corresponding to the receptors for IL-6, GM-CSF, SCF, INF-,, bFGF, and monocyte colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) were also expressed by the cells. The receptor for TNF- was detected immunologically. Analysis at the protein level demonstrated that significant amounts of INF-, TNF-, GM-CSF, SCF, IL-1, and a soluble form of the IL-6 receptor were produced by the cells. Addition of phorbol esters to CHRF-288-11 cells enhances their megakaryocytic phenotype; such treatment also results in increased secretion of INF-, TNF-, and GM-CSF. These results suggest that potential autocrine loops are established during the differentiation of CHRF-288-11 cells, which may alter the capability of the cell to differentiate. These findings are similar to those recently obtained for marrow-derived megakaryocytes (Jiang et al.) suggesting that CHRF-288-11 cells provide a useful model system for the study of cytokine release during megakaryocyte differentiation. 
40205776|In this study we examined the role of the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) pathway in affecting IOUD2 ES cell self-renewal and differentiation, Oct4 expression, and cell proliferation. Forskolin, the adenylate cyclase agonist, alone had no effect on ES cell self-renewal. However, when cells were treated with the differentiation-inducing agent retinoic acid, forskolin significantly promoted ES cell selfrenewal. Effectively, forskolin rescued cells from a pathway of differentiation. Culturing ES cells in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor IBMX had no effect on ES cell self-renewal but did increase cell proliferation. In the presence of 100 M IBMX without LIF, 10 M forskolin significantly increased ES cell self-renewal. The cell permeable cAMP analog 8-Br-cAMP (1 and 5 mM) promoted ES cell differentiation in the presence of LIF, while in the absence of LIF, it promoted ES cell self-renewal. The effect of the PKA specific inhibitors H89 and KT5720 on Oct4 expression was, again, LIF-dependent. In the presence of LIF, these inhibitors decreased Oct4 expression, while they increased Oct4 expression in the absence of LIF. In general, ES cells maintained on a selfrenewal pathway through the presence of LIF show little effect from altered cAMP signaling except at higher levels. However, in strict contrast, when ES cell are on a differentiation pathway through exposure to retinoic acid or the removal of LIF, altering cAMP levels can rescue the self-renewal process promoting Oct4 expression. This study clearly shows that the cAMP/PKA pathway plays a role in ES cell self-renewal pathways.
23279341|Signal transducer and activator of transcription 5a (Stat5a) transduces signals of extracellular cytokines and growth factors to the nucleus of mammary gland epithelial cells and thereby regulates gene transcription during pregnancy, lactation, and weaning. However, its function on the milk production of dairy cows needs further investigation. In this experiment, the effects of Stat5a on lactation ability of dairy cow mammary gland epithelial cells (DCMECs) were analyzed. Eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3.1+-stat5a-S1 was constructed by inserting stat5a gene into the plasmid vector pcDNA3.1+ and replacing CMV promoter with -S1-casein 5 flanking sequence. The recombinant vector was stably transfected into DCMECs after geneticin (G418) selection. The proliferation and viability of DCMECs, expression of -casein and stat5a gene, and the content of lactose were detected. The results showed that stat5a gene in eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3.1+-stat5a-S1 was highly expressed in DCMECs and could increase the lactation ability of DCMECs. The associativity of Stat5a with nutrients on the lactation ability of DCMECs was also evaluated. Lysine (Lys), methionine (Met), sodium acetate, -sodium hydroxybutyrate, and glucose all had more positive effects on the lactation function of DCMECs after pcDNA3.1+-stat5a-S1 transfection. The proliferation and viability of DCMECs, expression of -casein and stat5a gene, and contents of lactose and triglyceride were detected. The results revealed that nutrients could promote expression of Stat5a gene to increase lactation of DCMECs. These data help to clarify the function of stat5 gene on lactation and gene regulatory networks linking stat5a.
4295659|One limitation to the widespread use of in vitro-produced embryos in cattle is their poor survival following cryopreservation. Two approaches for enhancing survival of in vitro-produced bovine embryos following cryopreservation were evaluated: culture in the presence of hyaluronic acid and alterations in the cytoskeleton through cytochalasin B treatment. The experiment was a 2 x 2 factorial design to test main effects of hyaluronic acid added to culture at day 5 after insemination (+ or -) and cryopreservation treatment (control or cytochalasin B). Embryos used for cryopreservation were blastocysts and expanded blastocysts harvested on day 7 after insemination. Cytochalasin B increased the percent of embryos that re-expanded (P < 0.0001) and that hatched following thawing (P < 0.05). The hatching percent was 29.6% for embryos treated with cytochalasin B versus 9.1% for control embryos. There was no significant effect of hyaluronic acid on survival although there was a tendency for embryos cultured with hyaluronic acid to have higher percent hatching if not treated with cytochalasin B (12.7% for hyaluronic acid versus 4.5% for control; hyaluronic acid x cytochalasin B interaction; P = 0.09). In conclusion, cytochalasin B treatment before freezing improved cryosurvival of bovine embryos produced in vitro. Such a treatment could be incorporated into methods for cryopreservation of bovine embryos provided post-transfer survival is adequate. In contrast, culture with hyaluronic acid was of minimal benefit-the increased cryosurvival in the absence of cytochalasin B was not sufficient to allow an adequate number of embryos to survive.
4295252|We report the first characterization of a mouse T-lymphoma cell line that surprisingly expresses cytoplasmatic (cy) cyCD4. Phenotypically, LBC cells are
40928183|Stem/progenitor cells of the human corneal epithelium are present in the human corneal limbus, and several corneal epithelial stem/progenitor cell markers have been reported. Recently, the neurotrophin family receptors were reported to be useful markers of corneal epithelial stem/progenitor cells. Therefore, we examined an enzymatic separation method for obtaining corneal epithelial stem/progenitor cells and measuring the change in the expression of low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75 NTR ), a receptor belonging to the neurotrophin family. As a result, it was found that our separation method preserved cell viability. Furthermore, p75 NTR was mainly observed in epithelial basal cells as were the corneal epithelial stem/progenitor markers p63 and integrin 1. p75 NTR was also observed in the cultured cells, but its frequency decreased with passage. In conclusion, we propose that our culture method will enable the culture of corneal stem cells and that it is a useful tool for elucidating the molecular basis of the niche that is necessary for the maintenance of epithelial stem cells in the corneal limbus. Furthermore, we conclude that p75 NTR is a useful cell marker for evaluating the characteristics of stem/progenitor cells in culture.
20869582|The origin of the myofibroblast, the primary effector cell of liver fibrosis, is still elusive. Here, we report that fluorescence-activated cell sorting purified E-cad+rhesus monkey liver epithelial progenitor cells (mLEPCs) may serve as a potential source for liver myofibroblasts. Adult mLEPCs colonies were cultured in medium containing 2 ng/ml transforming growth factor  (TGF-) and 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) to induce differentiation. Phenotypic changes of cells were analyzed by morphological observation, immunostaining, and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). After cultured with TGF- and FBS, some cells in adult mLEPCs colonies converted to fibroblasts-like cells. Immunostaining showed that fibroblasts-like cells had acquired the expression of mesenchymal cell marker vimentin but lost the expression of epithelial cell marker CK8. Fibroblasts-like cells were maintained in culture for up to 40 passages. RT-PCR analysis revealed that fibroblasts-like cells had acquired the expression of mesenchymal genes (snail, PAI-1, and collagen I) and lost the expression of epithelial specific genes (E-cad, ZO-1, CK18, and occludin). In addition, more than 60% of fibroblasts-like cells expressed myofibroblastic-related proteins such as SMA, vimentin, and N-cad, which were not presented in mLEPCs. Furthermore, increased cell motility was also detected in these fibroblasts-like cells by time-lapse video observation. Our results demonstrate that hepatic epithelial progenitor cells, mLEPCs, transform to myofibroblast-like cells via epithelial-mesenchymal transition. This finding will facilitate understanding of the origin of myofibroblasts in liver fibrosis.
4295506|Activation of protein kinase c (PKC) reduces transcription from the polymerase III (pol III)-transcribed adenovirus VA gene. Data presented here support a role for PKC in disrupting the formation of transcription-competent initiation complexes. The study used the plasmids VA and VA/EL (VA gene with a linker to distinguish its transcript from that of the VA gene) in in vitro assays to show that preincubation of either template for a minimum of 10 min before the activation of PKC did not result in PKC-induced repression of transcription. In contrast, under the same conditions, efficient transcription occurs from a preincubated template but not from a second template if it is added during or after the activation of PKC. Simultaneous preincubation of both VA and VA/EL resulted in efficient transcription from both templates. Rescue experiments confirm that PKC modifies a target within transcription factor B (TFIIIB) because phosphocellulose fractionation of whole-cell extracts that yield partially purified pol III transcription factor, TFIIIB, successfully rescues VA transcription from PKC-induced repression. Subsequent studies confirmed that the TATA box-binding protein (TBP), a constituent of TFIIIB, substituted for the crude preparation of TFIIIB. These data support a conclusion that activation of PKC triggers a cascade that likely involves the sequestration or degradation of TBP, resulting in the disruption of the steps that leads to successful pol III transcription initiation.
4295621| Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a major obstacle in cancer therapy. It results from different mechanisms; among them is P-glycoprotein (P-gp)-mediated drug efflux out of cells. The mechanism of action remains elusive. The membrane lipid surrounding of P-gp, especially cholesterol, has been postulated to play an important role. To determine the effect of cholesterol depletion on P-gp, Madin Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, transfected with the mdr1 gene (MDR1-MDCK cells), were treated with methyl--cyclodextrin (MCD). The localization and function of P-gp were analyzed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Treatment with 100 mM MCD did not affect viability but altered the structural appearance of the cells and abolished efflux of rhodamine 123, a P-gp substrate. The MCD treatment released P-gp from intact cells into the supernatant and reduced the amount of P-gp in total membrane preparations. The P-gp was shifted from the raft fractions (1% Triton X-100, 4 C) to higher density fractions in MCD-treated cells. The amount of cholesterol was significantly decreased in the raft fractions. Treatment of cells with 1-phenyl-2-decanoylamino-3-morpholino-1-propanol, a glucosylceramide synthase inhibitor, also led to a shift of P-gp to higher density fractions. These results show that removal of cholesterol modulates the membrane lipid composition, changes the localization of P-gp, and results in loss of P-gp function. 
40663792|The International Stem Cell Banking Initiative (ISCBI) aims to create a global network of stem cell banks to facilitate best practice in stem cell research and clinical cell delivery, primary objectives of national and local governments worldwide and stem cell organizations such the International Stem Cell Forum and the International Society of Stem Cell Research. This paper is a brief overview of ISCBI, its primary activities, potential network participants, and the challenges for harmonizing stem cell banking on a global level.
4295546|The toxicity of the mycotoxins nivalenol (NIV), deoxynivalenol (DON), and fumonisin
4294838| In this study we assessed the behavior of fibroblasts during contraction of collagen lattices. We applied a new technique for three-dimensional time-lapse studies of movements of living cells using phase-contrast laser scanning microscopy. Five anchored and five floating collagen lattices were studied regarding the activity of cells during a 7-h period of active contraction. Three-dimensional reconstructions of the fibroblasts and their extensions were made from datasets of 16-26 "optical sections" 5 m apart recorded hourly during the period of measurements. The distance between fibroblast nuclei in the floating lattices decreased by a mean of 6.8 m, but remained constant in the anchored group. Only minor variations were found in the angle between a line connecting any two nuclei and the tangent of the lattice margin. The lengths of the cellular extensions continuously changed by shortening and extending, and an increasing number of intercellular contacts were established with time. The angle between the extensions and the periphery of the lattice varied continually, and no distinct pattern of arrangement of the extensions was seen. In conclusion, we have shown in living cells in vitro that fibroblasts do not appear to move around within lattices during contraction but rather send out and withdraw cellular extensions continuously. This speaks against cellular locomotion or movement as a main feature of contraction. Time-lapse scanning laser microscopy has also been shown to be a suitable method to study cellular behavior quantitatively in three dimensions during lattice contraction. 
20460114|The proliferative capacity of T cells in response to various stimuli is commonly determined by radioactive assay based on incorporation of [3H]thymidine ([3H]TdR) into newly synthesized DNA. In order to assess techniques for application in laboratories where radioactive facilities are not present, an alternative method was tested. As an alternative, T-cell proliferation was measured by spectrophotometrically analyzing the presence of an enzyme adenosine deaminase in lymphocytes and also using a standard XTT assay. Jurkat (human) T-cell line (clone E6.1) was used for lymphocyte population. The Jurkat cell concentration was adjusted according to different cell densities and enzyme activity was determined. Cells were also seeded in complete medium up to 72 h and harvested for estimation of enzyme activity. A significant correlation between the standard cell-proliferation assay and adenosine deaminase assay was observed. The present study indicates that the assay of adenosine deaminase is a reliable and accurate method for measuring proliferation of T lymphocytes.
4294445|A three-dimensional histoculture of wet stratified squamous epithelium of rat lingual frenulum was cultured on a liquid-air interface. The tissue retained its morphology for many days in culture. During this period the vast majority of the epithelial cells remained viable and exhibited dye (lucifer yellow) coupling in all living epithelial strata. Dye coupling was determined using two methods: the conventional intracellular injection method, and a new method-"cut-loading." In the cut-loading method, an incision is made in the epithelium in the presence of dye, and intracellular diffusion of dye throughout the epithelium was measured using confocal microscopy. The basolateral surface of the lingual frenulum also acted as a substrate for neuroblastoma cells to grow without exogenously added trophic factors. These neuroblastoma cells grow neurites that establish contacts with epithelial cells. This preparation can serve as a model for investigating interactions among epithelial cells and between nerves and epithelial cells.
4294742|Much of the autonomous growth of cultured keratinocytes is attributable to the signaling of amphiregulin, a heparin-binding autocrine growth factor, through the epidermal growth factor receptor. Emerging evidence suggests, moreover, that the membrane proteoglycan, CD44, is a cofactor for the interaction of heparin-binding ligands with their receptors. This model was evaluated by characterizing the patterns of the immunolabeled molecules in cultured human neonatal keratinocytes, to test the hypothesis that involvement in a common function results in coordinate segregation within or on the cell. The molecules were localized by double immunofluorescence labeling to detect amphiregulin and either the epidermal growth factor receptor or CD44, and the immunostained products were imaged by scanning laser confocal microscopy. Both amphiregulin and the epidermal growth factor receptor segregated to a perinuclear distribution and to intercellular contacts. In addition, amphiregulin localized to the outer leading edge of colonies and focally to intranuclear sites. Metabolic blockade of proteoglycan sulfation with sodium chlorate inhibited growth of the cells and concurrently enhanced the nuclear, but decreased the outer leading edge, labeling for amphiregulin. There was no nuclear or perimeter labeling for the epidermal growth factor receptor. Cultures co-immunolabeled for CD44 and amphiregulin exhibited variable perinuclear staining for both, but otherwise CD44 was distributed to intercellular contacts. The intercellular localizations of CD44 with amphiregulin and of amphiregulin with the epidermal growth factor receptor were strongly concordant. These data are consistent with a concerted function at intercellular contacts, where cytokine signaling is mediated via receptor binding and possibly regulated by the CD44 proteoglycan as cofactor. The intranuclear and perimeter labeling of amphiregulin, however, suggests that this cytokine has additional functions, both in the nucleus and as a matrix receptor.
20616563|This work describes the step-by-step development of a novel, serum-free, in vitro cell culture system resulting in the formation of robust, contracting, multinucleate myotubes from dissociated skeletal muscle cells obtained from the hind limbs of fetal rats. This defined system consisted of a serum-free medium formulation developed by the systematic addition of different growth factors as well as a nonbiological cell growth promoting substrate, N-1[3-(trimethoxysilyl) propyl] diethylenetriamine. Each growth factor in the medium was experimentally evaluated for its effect on myotube formation. The resulting myotubes were evaluated immunocytochemically using embryonic skeletal muscle, specifically the myosin heavy chain antibody. Based upon this analysis, we propose a new skeletal muscle differentiation protocol that reflects the roles of the various growth factors which promote robust myotube formation. Further observation noted that the proposed skeletal muscle differentiation technique also supported musclenerve coculture. Immunocytochemical evidence of nervemuscle coculture has also been documented. Applications for this novel culture system include biocompatibility and skeletal muscle differentiation studies, understanding myopathies, neuromuscular disorders, and skeletal muscle tissue engineering.
40205819|Due to the cellular complexity of the airway epithelium, it is important to carefully define bronchial cell lines that capture the phenotypic traits of a particular cell type. We describe the characterization of a human bronchial epithelial cell line, VA10. It was established by transfection of primary bronchial epithelial cells with retroviral constructs containing the E6 and E7 oncogenes from HPV16. The cell line has been cultured for over 2 yr, a total of 60 passages. Although prolonged culture resulted in increased chromosomal instability, no major phenotypic drift in marker expression was observed. The cells expressed cytokeratins 5, 13, 14, and 17 suggesting a basal-like phenotype. This was further supported by the expression of 64 integrins and the basal cell-associated transcription factor p63. The VA10 cell line generated high transepithelial electrical resistance in suspended and air-liquid interface culture, indicating functionally active tight junction (TJ) complexes. Immunocytochemistry showed the typical reticular structures of occludin and TJ-associated Factin. VA10 produced pseudostratified layer in air-liquid interface culture with expression of p63 restricted to the basal layer. Furthermore, VA10 produced round colonies when cultured in laminin-rich reconstituted basement membrane, and immunostaining of claudin-1 and the basolateral marker 4 integrin revealed colonies that generated polarization as expected in vivo. These data indicate that VA10 epithelia have the potential to model the bronchial epithelium in vivo and may be useful to study epithelial regeneration and repair and the effect of chemicals and potential drug candidates on TJ molecules in airway epithelia.
4295552|In vitro models of macrophage growth, differentiation, and function are needed to facilitate the study of their biology as important immune facilitator cells and as frequent targets of bacterial and viral infection. A simple method for the selective expansion and continuous culture of mouse macrophages from primary explant cultures of mouse embryonic tissue is described. Culture in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium (DMEM) low-glucose (1 g/L) formulation (DMEM/L) inhibited fibroblast growth. In contrast, macrophages continued to proliferate in the presence of DMEM/L when in contact with the fibroblasts. Alternating growth in high-glucose DMEM with DMEM/L produced a 1.16- to 2.1-fold increase (depending on mouse strain) in the percentage of macrophages within the cell culture in comparison with culturing in DMEM with high glucose exclusively. Macrophage yields of over 1 million cells/T12.5 flask were achieved by passages 3-4, and, thereafter, declined over the next 5-10 passages. The peak percentage of macrophages within a culture varied depending on the strain of mouse (C57BL/6, CD-1, and CF-1 and two knockout C57BL/6 strains deficient in either interleukin-6 [IL-6] or granulocyte colony stimulating factor [GCSF]). The GCSF (-/-)-derived cultures had the lowest peak macrophage content (30%) and CD-1 the highest content (64.9%). The IL-6 (-/-) and CD-1 cultures appeared to spontaneously transform to create cell lines (IL6MAC and CD1MAC, respectively) that were composed of 50-75% macrophages. The macrophages were phagocytic and were positive for CD14, acetylated low-density lipoprotein receptors, and F4-80 antigen. Light and electron microscopy showed that the cultured macrophages had in vivo-like morphological features, and they could be plated to high purity by differential attachment to petri dishes in serum-free medium.
4295562|Neoplastic cells acquire multidrug resistance as they assemble into multicellular spheroids. Image analysis and Monte Carlo simulation provided an insight into the adhesion and motility events during spheroid restructuring in liquid-overlay culture of DU 145 and LNCaP human prostate cancer cells. Irregularly shaped, two-dimensional aggregates restructured through incremental cell movements into three-dimensional spheroids. Of the two cultures examined, restructuring was more pronounced for DU 145 aggregates. Motile DU 145 cells formed spheroids with a minimum cell overlay of 30% for 25-mers as estimated by simulation versus 5% for adhesive LNCaP cells in aggregates of the same size. Over 72 h, the texture ratio increased from
41511619|A continuous cell line derived from the pupal ovary of Spodoptera exigua was established by treating primary cells with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG). Three days after treating cells with 3.0 g/ml of MNNG, the cells formed a monolayer and were initially subcultured 60 d after the MNNG was removed, followed by subculturing for 30 passages. The established cell line, designated IOZCAS-Spex 12, consisted of a mixture of three types of cells, including spherical, spindle-shaped, and oval cells. The population doubling time of the cell line during its logarithmic growth phase was found to be 71 h. DNA amplification fingerprinting polymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed that the new cell line originated from S. exigua. Susceptibility of IOZCAS-Spex 12 cells to infection by certain nucleopolyhedroviruses was investigated. The results showed that the cell line was highly susceptible to infection by S. exigua nucleopolyhedrovirus and Autographa californica multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus, slightly susceptible to infection by Spodoptera litura nucleopolyhedrovirus, and not susceptible to infection by Helicoverpa armigera nucleopolyhedroviruses or Hyphantria cunea nucleopolyhedroviruses. The results of this study suggest that MNNG treatment may overcome existing limitations to obtaining continually proliferating cells and may open up the possibilities for immortalizing isolated insect cells.
4295504|Although the ES-D3 murine embryonic stem cell line was one of the first derived, little information exists on the in vitro differentiation potential of these cells. We have used immunocytochemical and flow cytometric methods to monitor ES-D3 embryoid body differentiation in vitro during a 21-d period. Spontaneous differentiation of embryoid body cells was induced by leukemia inhibitory factor withdrawal in the absence of feeder cells. The pluripotent stem cell markers Oct-3/4, SSEA-1, and EMA-1 were found to persist for at least 7 d, whereas the primitive endoderm marker cytokeratin endo-A was expressed at increasing levels from day 6. The localization of these antigens within the embryoid bodies suggested that embryonic ectoderm- and primitive endoderm-derived tissues were segregated. Localized expression of class III beta-tubulin and sarcomeric myosin also was detected, indicating that representatives of all three embryonic germ layers were present after induction of differentiation in vitro.
40663814|We have derived 30 human embryonic stem cell lines from supernumerary blastocysts in our laboratory. During the derivation process, we have studied new and safe method to establish good quality lines. All our human embryonic stem cell lines have been derived using human foreskin fibroblasts as feeder cells. The 26 more recent lines were derived in a medium containing serum replacement instead of fetal calf serum. Mechanical isolation of the inner cell mass using flexible metal needles was used in deriving the 10 latest lines. The lines are karyotypically normal, but culture adaptation in two lines has been observed. Our human embryonic stem cell lines are banked, and they are available for researchers.
20616560|In vitro studies using chondrocyte cell cultures have increased our understanding of cartilage physiology and the altered chondrocytic cell phenotype in joint diseases. Beside the use of primary cells isolated from cartilage specimens of donors, immortalized chondrocyte cell lines such as C-28/I2 and T/C-28a2 have facilitated reproducible and standardized experiments. Although carbohydrate structures appear of significance for cartilage function, the contribution of the chondrocyte glycocalyx to matrix assembly and alterations of the chondrocyte phenotype is poorly understood. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the glycoprofile of primary human chondrocytes as well as of C-28/I2 and T/C-28a2 cells in culture. First, the chondrocytic phenotype of primary and immortalized cells was assessed using real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, immunofluorescence, and glycosaminoglycans staining. Then, a panel of lectins was selected to probe for a range of oligosaccharide sequences determining specific products of the O-glycosylation and N-glycosylation pathways. We found that differences in the molecular phenotype between primary chondrocytes and the immortalized chondrocyte cell models C-28/I2 and T/C-28a2 are reflected in the glycoprofile of the cells. In this regard, the glycocalyx of immortalized chondrocytes was characterized by reduced levels of high-mannose type and sialic acid-capped N-glycans as well as increased fucosylated O-glycosylation products. In summary, the present report emphasizes the glycophenotype as an integral part of the chondrocyte phenotype and points at a significant role of the glycophenotype in chondrocyte differentiation.
4295052|We have used our imaginai disc cell lines to carry out in vitro studies on the cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion of Drosophila leg and wing disc cells. Single cells were allowed to reaggregate in roller culture, and this process was found to be partially dependent on the presence of magnesium and calcium ions in the suspension medium. Varying rates of reaggregation were observed in cells from different stages of a passage, correlating with the pattern of morphogenesis which occurs during the passage. We have demonstrated that cloned cell lines can be produced showing certain selected characteristics, such as reduced cell adhesiveness.
23353397|Despite recent technical advances for studying lineage tracing and gene functions, our knowledge of pancreatic duct progenitor cells and mechanisms involved in their differentiation remains a huge void in our understanding of pancreatic development. A deeper insight into ductal differentiation is needed because ductal cells may harbor pancreatic stem/progenitor cells that could give rise to new islets. Also, since the most common pancreatic tumors form structures expressing ductal cell-specific markers, studies of ductal development may provide better markers for pancreatic tumor classification. One major longstanding problem in the study of pancreatic ductal differentiation has been the lack of an effective in vitro model. We thus wished to develop an in vitro system for the study of pancreatic duct development. In doing so, we have developed a specific culture condition to promote ductal differentiation of E11.5 pancreatic rudiments. Normally, pancreatic explants cultured in vitro develop to form endocrine, acinar, as well as ductal cells. Here, we report that addition of a combination of EGF, fibroblast growth factor-10, and platelet-derived growth factor-AA to the explant cultures promotes ductal differentiation, while preventing endocrine and acinar differentiation. This culture system for differentiation and enrichment of pancreatic ductal cells may allow identification of gene(s) involved in ductal development.
4294127|Human fibroblasts (KMST-6) immortalized by treatment with
4294663| A newly established cell line was obtained from the culture of embryonic cells of the potato tuber moth Phthorimaea operculella in low temperature conditions (19 C) using modified Graces medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. The population doubling time was about 80 h when cells were cultivated at 19 C and 38 h at 27 C. The cell line had a relatively homogeneous population consisting of various sized spherical cells. The cells were cultivated for more than 25 passages. Their polypeptidic profile was different from profiles of other P. operculella cell lines we previously described and from other lepidopteran cells. The new cell line was designated ORS-Pop-95. The complete replication of the potato tuber moth granulosis virus (PTM GV) was obtained in vitro by both viral infection and DNA transfection. PTM GV multiplied at a significant level during several passages of the cell line that was maintained at 19 C. As long as the cells were maintained at 19 C, virus multiplication could also be obtained at the same rate at 27 C. To compare PTM GV multiplied both in vivo and in vitro, we used morphological identification, serological, DNA probe diagnosis and endonuclease digest profile analysis and confirmed the identity of the virus. 
4294874|The palatal cleft seen in Msx-1 knock-out mice suggests a role for this gene in normal palate development. The cleft is presumed secondary to tooth and jaw malformations, since in situ hybridization suggests that Msx-1 mRNA is not highly expressed in developing palatal tissue. In this study we demonstrate, by Northern blot analysis, the expression of Msx-1, but not Msx-2, in the developing palate and in primary cultures of murine embryonic palate mesenchymal cells. Furthermore, we propose a role for Msx-1 in retinoic acid-induced cleft palate, since retinoic acid inhibits Msx-1 mRNA expression in palate mesenchymal cells. We also demonstrate that transforming growth factor beta inhibits Msx-1 mRNA expression in palate mesenchymal cells, with retinoic acid and transforming growth factor beta acting synergistically when added simultaneously to these cells. These data suggest a mechanistic interaction between retinoic acid, transforming growth factor beta, and Msx-1 in the etiology of retinoic acid-induced cleft palate.
4295669|Embryonic stem (ES) cells can replicate indefinitely and differentiate into all cell types, including hepatocytes. Research using primate ES cells is considered to be important for studies of potential cell therapies. Recently, we established cynomolgus monkey ES cells designated as CMK6. The CMK6 cell line is a useful tool for investigating the mechanism of differentiation in primate ES cells and developing cell therapies, because of its biological similarity to human ES cells. To examine whether cynomolgus monkey ES cells differentiate into hepatocytes, CMK6 cells were cultured with or without acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF). Evaluation of the hepatic differentiation was performed by analysis of the mRNA expression in early hepatic marker genes using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The protein expression of albumin (ALB) was also studied by immunocytochemistry. RT-PCR analyses revealed mRNA expressions of alpha-fetoprotein, transthyretin, and ALB in the presence of aFGF at 3 wk of differentiation, whereas no mRNA expression of these genes was detected in cells without aFGF. The protein expression of ALB in the presence of aFGF at 3 wk of differentiation was also confirmed by immunocytochemistry. However, tyrosine aminotransferase, which is a mature hepatic marker, was not detected in the presence or absence of aFGF at any stage of differentiation. These results suggested that aFGF successfully promoted in vitro differentiation of cynomolgus monkey ES cells to an early hepatic lineage.
4295439|Myogenic cell lines have been used extensively in the study of skeletal muscle development, regeneration, and homeostasis. To induce myogenic differentiation, culture media composed of a wide variety of growth factors and other additives have been used. Because the diversity in these components may modulate the differentiation process differentially, we describe a differentiation protocol that does not require the introduction of any factors to the differentiation media (DM) other than those present in the growth media. By culturing C2C12 skeletal myocytes on a coating of diluted Matrigel, a soluble basement membrane, consisting of collagen IV, laminin, heparan sulfate proteoglycans, and entactin, myogenic differentiation was accomplished by mere serum reduction. Assessment of myotube formation, creatine kinase activity, myosin heavy chain-fast, and myogenin demonstrated that the kinetics and extent of myogenic differentiation were superior using this protocol, compared with a commonly used differentiation protocol, in which an extracellular matrix is not provided and the DM contains horse serum. In addition, the elevated transactivation of a troponin-I promoter reporter construct suggested that myogenesis was enhanced at the transcriptional level. Finally, assessment of genomic deoxyribonucleic acid content revealed that the Matrigel differentiation protocol resulted in lowered proliferation. This protocol may aid studies aimed at elucidating mechanisms of myogenic differentiation, where a homogeneous population of myotubes is preferred.
20172158|A combination of mild proteolytic digestion and selective growth stimulation has been used to isolate and propagate adult rat intestinal epithelial cells with a finite life span. Growth of these cells on a variety of matrices and on mesenchymal cells has resulted in the expression of brush border enzymes including sucrase-isomaltase, aminopeptidase N, and alkaline phosphatase. Examination of the cells at the electron microscopic level has revealed that although these cells express key brush border enzymes, they do not have a fully formed brush border. These findings suggest that the expression of brush border enzymes and structural proteins represent distinct stages of enterocyte differentiation that are under separate transcriptional and temporal control.
4295029|Simple methods are presented for quantitating contraction and intracellular calcium simultaneously in single, cultured smooth muscle cells. These methods are the first to demonstrate that reliable velocities of cell shortening can be measured in cultured smooth muscle cells and that cells in vitro exhibit shortening velocities comparable to those measured in the fastest phasic muscles in situ. Temporal relationships between changes in intracellular calcium and shortening within single cells were determined with a resolution of 100 ms and were consistent with measures in more "classical" preparations. Intracellular calcium rose quickly and transiently 10-fold above the basal level of 80-90 nM in response to the muscarinic agonist, carbachol. Shortening of the cells occurred 200 ms after intracellular calcium began to rise. The sensitivity and reliability of these methods allowed the effects of different stimuli to be easily resolved. The present report demonstrates that genuine contractility need not be ignored in cultured smooth muscle cells and that the temporal relations between shortening and intracellular calcium mobilization can be quantitatively assessed in controlled in vitro environments.
40205871|Tears in the avascular portion of the knee meniscus are commonplace and are frequently incapable of healing spontaneously. Delivery of synovial cells from the meniscal periphery to avascular injuries can result in an effective healing response but is difficult to accomplish surgically. This report describes the development of a novel in vitro model comprised of three-dimensionally cultured cells in agarose used to assess the proof of concept that a cellular conduit device could be used to facilitate the delivery of synovial fibroblasts from a cell source to a remote acellular recipient site. The results indicate that synovial fibroblasts are capable of migrating through a cellular conduit more optimally than a created trephined channel over a clinically relevant distance in response to a chemotactic gradient. This model proved to be a reliable way to assess fibroblast-like synoviocyte migration in a clinically relevant fashion for application to avascular meniscal tear healing methodologies, and provided mechanistic information regarding the successful in vivo testing of this specific biomedical device.
23353399|The hawksbill sea turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) is a critically endangered species at a risk of extinction. Preservation of the genomic and cellular information of endangered animals is important for future genetic and biological studies. Here, we report the efficient establishment of primary fibroblast cultures from skin tissue of the hawksbill sea turtle. We succeeded in establishing 19 primary cultures from 20 hawksbill sea turtle individuals (a success rate of 95%). These cells exhibited a fibroblast-like morphology and grew optimally at a temperature of 26C, but experienced a loss of viability when cultured at 37C. Chromosomal analysis using the primary cells derived here revealed that hawksbill sea turtles have a 2n=56 karyotype. Furthermore, we showed that our primary cell cultures are free of several fish-related viruses, and this finding is important for preservation purposes. To our knowledge, this report is the first to describe primary cell cultures established from normal tissues of the hawksbill sea turtle. The results will contribute to the preservation of biodiversity, especially for the sea turtles that are critically endangered owing to human activities.
20172246| To establish parenchymal hepatocyte cell lines, we tried to subculture the primary hepatocytes isolated from adult rats. The hepatocytes were cultured in serum-free modified Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 10 mM nicotinamide and 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor. When 6  10 cells were plated on 35-mm dishes coated with rat tail collagen, the cells proliferated and reached confluence at Day 6 to Day 8. The first subculture was carried out at Day 8 using 0.005% collagenase and gentle pipettings. Most cells were recovered and plated on the new dishes coated with the collagen (first passage). The attached cells could proliferate and reached near confluence when the cells occupied more than two-thirds of the dish surface. About a week after the first subculture, the second one was conducted. Although the number of the recovered cells was smaller than at the first passage, the cells could attach and proliferate to a certain extent. Thereafter, they were maintained for more than 2 mo. but they never overgrew. Albumin secretion into the culture medium was confirmed in the subcultured cells. Ultrastructurally, these subcultured cells possessed hepatic characteristics such as peroxisomes with a crystalline nucleiod and bile-canaliculus structures. When 10% fetal bovine serum and ascorbic acid 2-phosphate were added to the cells of the second passage, they began to proliferate very slowly. These proliferating cells were mainly mononucleate and had a small cytoplasm. In addition, some of them could differentiate into typical mature hepatocytes by forming a three-dimensional structure interacting with nonparenchymal cells. In this experiment, we showed the successful subculturing of parenchymal hepatocytes isolated from adult rats and provided evidence that the subcultured cells still have the potential to proliferate and to differentiate. 
4294264|Dispersed bovine anterior pituitary cells were incubated either in static or perifusion cultures to assess basal growth hormone release as well as stimulatory and inhibitory effects of growth hormone-releasing hormone and somatostatin, respectively, on growth hormone release. Total concentrations of growth hormones over a 12-hour incubation period were fivefold greater in perifused than in static cultures (
40205882|Lipotropes (methyl group containing nutrients, including methionine, choline, folate, and vitamin B) are dietary methyl donors and cofactors that are involved in one-carbon metabolism, which is important for genomic DNA methylation reactions and nucleic acid synthesis. One-carbon metabolism provides methyl groups for all biological methylation pathways and is highly dependent on dietary supplementation of methyl nutrients. Nutrition is an important determinant of breast cancer risk and tumor behavior, and dietary intervention may be an effective approach to prevent breast cancer. Apoptosis is important for the regulation of homeostasis and tumorigenesis. The anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 may be a regulatory target in cancer therapy; controlling or modulating its expression may be a therapeutic strategy against breast cancer. In this study, the effects of lipotrope supplementation on the growth and death of human breast cancer cell lines T47D and MCF-7 were examined and found to inhibit growth of both T47D and MCF-7 cells. Furthermore, the ratios of apoptotic cells to the total number of cells were approxi mately 44% and 34% higher in the lipotrope-supplemented treatments of T47D and MCF-7 cancer cells, respectively, compared with the control treatments. More importantly, Bcl-2 protein expression was decreased by approximately 25% from lipotrope supplementation in T47D cells, suggesting that lipotropes can induce breast cancer cell death by direct downregulation of Bcl-2 protein expression. Cancer treatment failure is often correlated with Bcl-2 protein upregulation. These data may be useful in the development of effective nutritional strategies to prevent and reduce breast cancer in humans.
20172201|Human corneal fibroblasts were infected with a retroviral delivery vector containing the E6 and E7 genes from human Papilloma virus type 16 in order to produce cell lines that have an expanded lifespan in culture. Morphologically, some of the trasfected corneal fibroblast lines appeared to have the normal spindle-shape morphology of diploid fibroblasts, whereas other lines appeared to have a more elongated morphology. All the cell lines were anchorage-dependent. Cells that had a normal morphology grew at a rate similar to normal diploid human corneal fibroblasts and had a population doubling time of 48 h. All E6/E7 expressing cell lines, regardless of morphology, produce types I, III, and V collagen, at levels similar to those observed in the parent corneal diploid fibroblast. These corneal fibroblast lines will be a useful in vitro system to study collagen expression and fibril formation, as well as normal stroma development. These results also demonstrate that the use of E6/E7 genes to expand a cell's lifespan can be a powerful tool because it does not appear to alter either the growth rate of the cell or collagen expression.
20616576|We used Wolbachia pipientis strain wAlbB from Aedes albopictus Aa23 cells to infect clonal Ae. albopictus TK-6 cells, which are resistant to 5-bromodeoxyuridine. Infected TK-6 cells were cultured in medium containing 5-bromodeoxyuridine to select against Aa23 cells that might have persisted in the inoculum. Infected TK-6 lines retained the Wolbachia infection for 5 mo, indicating that their metabolic processes support Wolbachia growth and multiplication. To investigate early events after Wolbachia infection, we labeled infected cells with S[methionine/cysteine]. Patterns of labeled proteins on sodium dodecyl sulfate gels were similar in control and infected cells, with the exception of a 29-kDa protein. Tandem mass spectrometry revealed that the 29-kDa band included  and  subunits of the 26S proteasome. Independent confirmation of the up-regulation of the proteasome was established by probing Western blots with a monoclonal antibody to the proteasome-associated co-factor, ubiquitin. Wolbachia's loss of metabolic pathways for the synthesis of most amino acids and retention of pathways for their uptake and metabolism suggest that proteasome activation provides a mechanism whereby controlled degradation of intracellular host proteins would increase availability of amino acids to support establishment and maintenance of the Wolbachia infection.
4294497| The cytotoxicity of a Bence-Jones protein was assessed using a porcine renal tubule cell line (LLC-PK1), with the aim of developing a model for studying the potential nephrotoxicity of these proteins. The effects of a kappa Bence-Jones protein on cell viability were studied by means of biochemical methods (supravital dye uptake and measurement of cellular enzyme activities) and morphological electron microscopy. After a 24-h-treatment with Bence-Jones protein, a moderate cytotoxicity (about 15%) was noted but only a minor difference compared to treatment with bovine albumin in the same conditions. The morphological study showed a few cells in the process of lysis, but their numbers were insufficient for the demonstration of a clear cytotoxic effect. Immunocytochemical studies showed Bence-Jones protein fixation on some cells, especially on the outer membrane. Labeling of the hyaloplasm and basal pole of a few cells pointed to internalization of protein by LLC-PK1 cells. Although the cytotoxicity of the Bence-Jones protein tested here was only moderate, the use of this model enabled its cytotoxic effect to be distinguished from that of -lactoglobulin. This isolate could serve as a "moderate control" for a later study with a BJP having caused acute renal failure. 
40205770|The most commonly used means of assessing the invasiveness of cultured cells is the Boyden chamber assay, which requires that cells lyse Matrigel, followed by migration through pores in a filter in response to a chemotactic gradient. This report describes a simple method, which greatly increases the speed and accuracy by which Boyden chamber assays can be analyzed, and permits the concurrent analysis of distinct cell subpopulations within specimens containing multiple-cell types.
40802390|The PICM-19 pig liver stem cell line was cultured in space for nearly 16 d on the STS-126 mission to assess the effects of spaceflight on the liver's parenchymal cellsPICM-19 cells to differentiate into either monolayers of fetal hepatocytes or 3-dimensional bile ductules (cholangiocytes). Semi-quantitative data included light microscopic assessments of final cell density, cell morphology, and response to glucagon stimulation and electron microscopic assessment of the cells' ultrastructural features and cell-to-cell connections and physical relationships. Quantitative assessments included assays of hepatocyte detoxification functions, i. e., inducible P450 activities and urea production and quantitation of the mRNA levels of several liver-related genes. Three post-passage age groups were included: 4-d-, 10-d-, and 14-d-old cultures. In comparing flight vs. ground-control cultures 17 h after the space shuttle's return to earth, no differences were found between the cultures with the exception being that some genes were differentially expressed. By light microscopy both young and older cultures, flight and ground, had grown and differentiated normally in the Opticell culture vessels. The PICM-19 cells had grown to approximately 75% confluency, had few signs of apoptosis or necrosis, and had either differentiated into monolayer patches of hepatocytes with biliary canaliculi visible between the cells or into 3-dimensional bile ductules with well-defined lumens. Ultrastructural features between flight and ground were similar with the PICM-19 cells displaying numerous mitochondria, Golgi apparatus, smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum, vesicular bodies, and occasional lipid vacuoles. Cell-to-cell arrangements were typical in both flight and ground-control samples; biliary canaliculi were well-formed between the PICM-19 cells, and the cells were sandwiched between the STO feeder cells. PICM-19 cells displayed inducible P450 activities. They produced urea in a glutamine-free medium and produced more urea in response to ammonia. The experiment's aim to gather preliminary data on the PICM-19 cell line's suitability as an in vitro model for assessments of liver function in microgravity was demonstrated, and differences between flight and ground-control cultures were minor.
4294705|Cell cross-contamination in cell cultures is a common problem during cell culturing and use. Contamination invalidates research results, compromises the comparison of results between laboratories, reduces reproducibility required in industrial production of cell lines, and may lead to unusable therapeutic products. The problem can be solved by increasing the awareness of its seriousness and by introducing regular quality control of cell cross-contamination in every laboratory where cells are grown and used.
4294908|Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation significantly contributes to atherosclerotic plaque formation and limits the success rate of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. We derived a population of porcine coronary artery SMCs to characterize VSMC proliferation and phenotype in preparation to study the molecular actions of VSMC mitogens and antiproliferative agents. Growth assays were designed to minimize the estrogen content in the culture medium, since this steroid hormone significantly influences VSMC growth and the expression of VSMC mitogens and their receptors. Culture conditions were identified such that this criterion was achieved while maintaining a significant VSMC growth rate. Cells cultured in serum-free medium, regardless of growth factor supplements, did not remain adherent to a plastic culture substrate, nor did they proliferate. Dextran-coated charcoal (DCC)-treated sera, including fetal bovine, calf, and porcine, supported VSMC adhesion, but not growth. Whole fetal bovine serum (FBS) produced the best proliferative response. A type-I collagen-coated culture surface significantly enhanced VSMC growth, but only in culture medium containing non-DCC-treated FBS. Flow cytometry analyses confirmed the mitogenic effects of this substrate. The VSMCs exhibited a morphological change on type-I collagen, but this was not accompanied by a change in VSMC phenotype. Our data indicate that culture of these porcine coronary artery SMCs in 2.5% FBS plus 10 ng platelet-derived growth factor-BB per ml in phenol red-free medium on type-I collagen may be the optimal conditions for studying the molecular aspects of VSMC mitogens and antiproliferative agents.
4295343| At the back of the eye, the outermost cell layer of the retina, the pigmented epithelium, lies against a basement membrane that is adjacent to the choroidal vessels that supply the outer sensory retina. During pathogenesis, these interfaces become damaged, and the homeostatic balance between the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the choroidal vessels becomes disrupted, leading to choroidal neovascularization and blindness. To study the cell interactions at the back of the eye, we have used a coculture system in which a stable RPE monolayer has been cultured on a transwell insert and placed over a collagen gel sandwich into which choroidal endothelial cells (CECs) have been seeded. RPE cells have been stimulated by an inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1 (IL-1), and the ability of the underlying choroidal endothelium to form vascular tubes has been tested. IL-1 stimulation of the RPE insert increased the number of tubes formed by CECs in the gel as early as 3 d. By 7 d, tubes began to regress. Both IL-8 and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) were found to be secreted in greater amounts in stimulated RPE. Because MCP-1 is also a chemokine for monocytes, which in turn secrete angiogenic factors, monocytes were added to the upper surface of the choroidal gel sandwich and then incubated with the stimulated RPE insert as above. By day 7, more tubes formed and there was no regression over the experimental time period. The versatility of this model has been illustrated in that both RPE and CECs can be cultured in a more natural construct and their molecular interactions tested by physiologically altering one cell type and not the other. 
40205944|This protocol describes the preparation of primary cell cultures from Lepidopteran midgut. These cultures have been used to identify factors that control midgut growth and differentiation, cell responses to these factors, effects of toxins on midgut growth, and the regulation of cell physiology. The protocol is divided into (1) procedures for cell collection, (2) composition of the culture, and (3) assay methods used for cell health, proliferation, and differentiation. Collection and setup require 4-6 h. Once established, a culture can survive several months at 25C, be kept a year or longer at 4C, or be frozen for indefinite storage.
23481707|The aim of the present study was to isolate endothelial cells from tooth buds (unerupted deciduous teeth) of miniature swine. Mandibular molar tooth buds harvested from swine fetuses at fetal days 90110 were cultured in growth medium supplemented with 15% fetal bovine serum in 100-mm culture dishes until the primary cells outgrown from the tooth buds reached confluence. A morphologically defined set of pavement-shaped primary cells were picked up manually with filter paper containing trypsin/ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid solution and transferred to a separate dish. A characterization of the cellular characteristics and a functional analysis of the cultured cells at passages 3 to 5 were performed using immunofluorescence, a reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assay, a tube formation assay, and transmission electron microscopy. The isolated cells grew in a pavement arrangement and showed the characteristics of contact inhibition upon reaching confluence. The population doubling time was 48 h at passage 3. As shown by immunocytostaining and western blotting with specific antibodies, the cells produced the endothelial marker proteins such as vascular endothelial cadherin, von Willebrand factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2. Observation with time-lapse images showed that small groups of cells aggregated and adhered to each other to form tube-like structures. Moreover, as revealed through transmission electron microscopy, these adherent cells had formed junctional complexes. These endothelial cells from the tooth buds of miniature swine are available as cell lines for studies on tube formation and use in regenerative medical science.
4294498|We previously determined the amino acid sequence to the epitope (ATLFKTR) of cytochrome c from Candida krusei, which is cross-reactive to the lung cancer-specific human monoclonal antibody HB4C5. Here we report that an antigen messenger RNA, which codes for a structure similar to the cytochrome c epitope, is expressed in the human lung adenocarcinoma A549. Sequencing analysis has revealed that this messenger RNA encodes a novel 190 amino acid polypeptide of 21-kDa containing an amino acid sequence (ALLFFT) similar to the cytochrome c epitope, although the total messenger RNA sequence is apparently different from the cytochrome c messenger RNA. Western analysis indicated that an antibodyrecognizable 21-kDa antigen which has the same molecular weight as the predicted polypeptide is expressed in the A549 adenocarcinoma. The in vitro translated product of the antigen messenger RNA and synthesized ALLFFT peptide were both shown to be reactive with the monoclonal antibody, indicating that this protein contains the epitope which enables A549 cells to specifically react with the antibody. The antigen mRNA was not expressed in non-transformed fibroblasts, suggesting that the antigen mRNA expression was associated with cellular transformation. Also in part of the antigen nucleotide sequence, there was a segment that had about 90% homology to the long terminal repeat sequence (no. 297-475) of the human endogenous retrovirus HERV-K10, which was related to the mouse mammary tumor virus.
23481706|Triiodothyronine (T3) is a thyroid hormone that can have varying effects on skin. In order to assess the effects of T3 on the human dermis, we prepared dermal equivalents using neonatal dermal cells via the process of self-assembly in the presence of differing concentrations of T3. These dermal equivalents were prepared in the absence of serum and a three dimensional matrix allowing for the direct assessment of different concentrations of T3 on dermal extracellular matrix formation. Three different concentrations of T3 were chosen, 20 pM, which is part of the base medium, 0.2 nM T3 and 2 nM T3. We find that self-assembled dermal equivalents formed under these conditions show a progressive "thinning" with increasing T3 concentrations. While we observed no change in total collagen content, inhibition of hyaluronate (HA) synthesis was observed in the 0.2- and 2-nM T3 constructs as compared to the 20-pM construct. Other glycosaminoglycan synthesis was not affected by increasing T3 concentrations. In order to identify the gene(s) responsible for inhibition of HA synthesis in the 2-nM T3 dermal equivalent, we conducted a differential gene array analysis. The results of these experiments demonstrate the differential expression of 40 genes, of these, 34 were upregulated and 6 genes were downregulated. The results from these experiments suggest that downregulation of HAS2 may be responsible for inhibition of hyaluronate synthesis in the self-assembled 2-nM T3 human dermal matrix.
20460116|Control of the cellular environment is a principal attribute of in vitro cell cultures. Unintentional exposure to environmental compounds can adversely affect cultures and, therefore, experimental results. Estrogenic compounds arising from common plastic ware have been found during cell culture. One such compound, the environmental endocrine disrupting chemical bisphenol A, can bind to estrogen receptors and effect cellular changes. We monitored bisphenol A concentrations in culture dishes from six different manufacturers under typical cell-culture conditions. With the use of a gas chromatography mass--spectrometry assay we determined that bisphenol A contamination from the culture dishes did not occur. These findings will allow scientists concerned about possible effects of bisphenol A on their culture systems to choose appropriate plastic ware.
4295357|Elevated oxygen tensions are inhibitory to the growth of skin fibroblasts. Skin fibroblasts grow better at oxygen tensions below 137 mm Hg regardless of seeding density. A wide range of oxygen tensions, including those in the physiological range, strongly modulate the growth of human skin fibroblasts. There were no significant differences between the responses of fetal and postnatal cell lines to changes in ambient oxygen tension. In all cases, higher oxygen tensions significantly impeded cell growth. Seeding cells at
40205781|Two porcine cell lines of yolk-sac visceral endoderm, designated as PE-1 and PE-2, were derived from in vivo 11-d porcine blastocysts that were either ovoid (PE-1) or at the early tubular stage of elongation (PE-2). Primary and secondary culture of the cell lines was done on STO feeder cells. The PE-1 and PE-2 cells morphologically resembled visceral endoderm previously cultured from in vivo-derived ovine and equine blastocysts and from in vitro-derived bovine blastocysts. Analysis of the PE-1- and PE-2-conditioned medium by 2D-gel electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flightmass spectrometry demonstrated that they produced serum proteins. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the cells expressed several genes typical for yolk-sac endoderm differentiation and function including GATA-6, DAB-2, REX-1, HNF-1, transthyretin, alpha-fetoprotein, and albumin. Unlike a porcine liver cell line, the PE-1 and PE-2 cell lines had relatively low inducible P-450 content and EROD activity, and, while they cleared ammonia from the cell culture medium, they did not produce urea. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that the cells were a polarized epithelium connected by complex junctions resembling tight junctions and by lateral desmosomes. Rough endoplasmic reticulum was prominent within the cells. Immunocytochemistry indicated that the PE-1 cells expressed cytokeratin 18 and had robust microtubule networks similar to those observed in in vivo porcine yolk-sac endoderm. Metaphase spreads prepared at passage 26 of the PE-1 cell line indicated a diploid porcine karyotype of 38 chromosomes. The cells have been grown for over 1 yr for multiple passages at 1:10 or 1:20 split ratios on STO feeder cells. The cell lines will be of interest as an in vitro model of the porcine preimplantation yolk-sac tissue.
4294872|Alterations in the ultrastructure of in vitro cultured larval salivary glands of Drosophila melanogaster in response to the steroid hormone ecdysone were studied in relation to complex changes in puffing patterns. We found that the changes in the fine structure of cultured glands reflected progression of the puffing pattern, and they paralleled those seen in vivo. We observed that glue secretion by exocytosis, the main function of salivary glands, took place between puff stage 5 (PS5) and PS7. Glue could not be expectorated under culture conditions but was slowly released from the lumen through a duct into the medium. After the cultured glands reached PS13/PS14, further progress of puffing and fine structural alterations required that the ecdysteroid titer be transiently extremely low or absent. Under in vitro conditions we did not observe the putative new secretory program(s) described for glands in vivo after PS12. However, ultrastructural changes which unambiguously indicated that an autohistolytic process had begun in vitro started to appear after PS17. Many salivary gland cells developed numerous features of progressive self-degradation between PS18 and PS21. Actual degradation of salivary glands in vivo seemed to be rapid, but in vitro degradation was never completed, probably due to a lack of exogenous factors from the hemolymph. Manipulations of ecdysone titer in vitro in the culture medium, known during the larval puffing cycle to cause premature induction of developmentally specific puffing patterns, did not affect the normal development of ultrastructural features of the cytoplasm and nucleus.
40205911|Nitric oxide (NO) is an important mediator in many (patho) physiological processes including inflammation and skin cancer. A key transducer in NO signaling is the soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) that catalyzes the formation of guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP). The basic mechanism of NO-cGMP signaling in melanocytic cells is, however, not well elucidated. A setback for such studies is the limited availability of patient-derived melanocytes. Here, we report that immortalized human normal and vitiliginous cell lines generated via cell transfection with human papilloma virus 16 genes E6 and E7 express NO synthase and guanylyl cyclase isoforms and the multidrug resistance-associated proteins 4 and 5 as selective cGMP exporters. Donors of NO (e.g., the NONOate (Z)-1-[N-(3-ammoniopropyl)-N-(n-propyl)amino]diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate (PAPA-NO) and reactive nitrogen oxygen species (RNOS) like 3-morpholino-sydnonimine (SIN-1) as a donor of peroxynitrite as well as YC-1 as a NO-independent sGC stimulator increased intracellular cGMP levels in immortalized melanocytes (up to eightfold over controls), indicating the expression of functional sGC in these cells. PAPA-NO and SIN-1 also reduced the attachment of immortalized melanocytes to extracellular matrix (ECM) components like fibronectin which was dependent on cellular melanin content and cGMP. Such effects on melanoma cells were positively related to metastatic potential and were cGMP independent. Intriguingly, nonpigmented metastatic melanoma cells were more sensitive to exogenous sources of RNOS than of NO. Thus, immortalized melanocytes can be used as a tool for further research on differences in cell signaling between the different melanocytic lineages in particular towards impairment of cell-ECM adhesion by NO or RNOS, which may be important in metastasis and vitiligo pathogenesis.
4295051| Expression of the -adrenergic receptor (AR) and its coupling to cyclic AMP (cAMP) synthesis are important components of the signaling system that controls muscle atrophy and hypertrophy, and the goal of this study was to determine if electrical stimulation in a pattern simulating slow muscle contraction would alter the AR response in primary cultures of avian and mammalian skeletal muscle cells. Specifically, chicken skeletal muscle cells and rat skeletal muscle cells that had been grown for 7 d in culture were subjected to electrical stimulation for an additional 2 d at a pulse frequency of 0.5 pulses/sec and a pulse duration of 200 msec. In chicken skeletal muscle cells, the AR population was not significantly affected by electrical stimulation; however, the ability of these cells to synthesize cyclic AMP was reduced by approximately one-half. In contrast, the AR population in rat muscle cells was increased slightly but not significantly by electrical stimulation, and the ability of these cells to synthesize cyclic AMP was increased by almost twofold. The basal levels of intracellular cyclic AMP in neither rat muscle cells nor chicken muscle cells were affected by electrical stimulation. 
40205943|Building on earlier research, insect cell culture began with the successful establishment of one cell line from pupal ovarian tissue. The field has grown to the extent that now over 500 insect cell lines have been established from many insect species representing numerous insect orders and from several different tissue sources. These cell lines are used as research tools in virology, in studies of signaling mechanisms to study insect immunity, hemocyte migration, and to test hypotheses about gene expression, and in screening programs designed to discover new insecticide chemistries. Virology research is revealing fundamentally new information on virus/host cell interactions. Studies in gene expression are uncovering signal transduction pathways that are new to insect science. Research is leading to the development of high-speed screening technologies that are essential in the search for new insect pest management tools. A few insect cell lines are, in routine industrial processes, designed to produce proteins of biomedical significance. Both primary cell cultures and established lines are used in basic biological studies to reveal how. insect cells work. This review is designed to briefly cover the history of insect cell culture, recount some recent advances in the field, and offer a vision of the future of insect cell culture.
24712899|Human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) hold great potential for their therapeutic use in various clinical diseases. Many publications have reported on human blood-derived alternatives to animal serum for culturing mesenchymal stem cells, such as human serum, allogenic umbilical cord blood serum, and human platelet derivatives. However, it is not clear whether human umbilical cord blood plasma (UCBP), as the surplusage of umbilical cord blood mesenchymal stem cell extraction, could be used. In this study, in order to make the best of umbilical cord blood, the human UCBP was dialyzed to replace fetal bovine serum (FBS) in the culture medium. hUC-MSCs were cultured in the new medium. Cell growth rate, specific biomarkers, and differentiation properties were detected to characterize the cell proliferation and MSC-specific properties. The hUC-MSCs cultured in such derived medium were verified with proliferation rate, cluster differentiation markers, cell cycle, as well as differentiation capabilities. Such dialyzed human UCBP is fully comparable with, if not superior to, FBS in deriving and culturing hUC-MSCs.
4294607|The Rotating-Wall Vessel (RWV) is a novel in vitro cell culture system used to successfully culture a cell line derived from a heterologous mixed mullerian tumor cell of the ovary. Although the original tumor was comprised of both epithelial and mesodermal components, long-term culture in conventional flasks established a cell line from this tumor with homogenous epitheliallike growth characteristics (1). Cells from Passage 36 were seeded into a Rotating-Wall Vessel containing Cytodex-3 microcarrier beads. Scanning electron micrographs of tumor cells cultured for 32 d in the RWV showed the presence of heterogeneous cell populations organized into three-dimensional tissuelike architecture. Immunocytochemical analysis confirmed the cellular heterogeneity, as demonstrated by expression of both epithelial and mesenchymal antigens. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction amplification demonstrated the presence of mRNA for cellular oncogenes HER-2/neu, H-ras, K-ras, and tumor suppressor p53. Thus, there are two advantages to propagation of tissue in the RWV culture system: (a) tissue diversification representing populations present in the original tumor, and (b) the three-dimensional freedom to organize tissues morphologically akin to those observed in vivo. These data indicate that the RWV culture system is suitable for generating large quantities of ovarian tumor cells in vitro that are amenable to immunocytochemical, oncogenic, morphologic characteristics demonstrated in vivo.
4294343| Continuous cultures of pluripotent parenchymal hepatocytes were derived from the epiblasts of 8-day-old pig blastocysts. The cells were polygonal and had phase-contrast dark, granular cytoplasm with prominent nuclei and nucleoli. These feeder-dependent cell cultures differentiated into large, multicellular, secretory, duct-like structures or formed small canaliculi between individual cells. Alternatively, the cells accumulated droplets that stained intensely with Oil Red O, a lipid-specific stain. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), albumin, and -fibrinogen mRNAs were expressed as the cells differentiated in culture. Serum-free medium that was conditioned by the cells contained transferrin, AFP, and albumin. The growth and viability of the cells were inhibited by transforming growth factor 1 (TGF1) at concentrations 1 ng/ml. The cell cultures grew slowly with doubling times of 2 to 3 d. One of the cultures, pig inner cell mass-19 (PICM-19), was passaged continuously for over 2 yr [>100 population doublings (PD)] and appears to be an infinitely self-renewing cell population. The stem cell characteristics of the epiblast-derived fetal hepatocytes indicate that the cells may be unique for investigations of liver differentiation and organogenesis. 
40981260|Culture of extrahepatic bile duct epithelial cells is a useful model to investigate physiology of extrahepatic bile duct epithelia and hepatobiliary disease mechanisms. The aim of this work was to establish and characterize a primary murine extrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell culture. Epithelial cells were isolated from extrahepatic bile ducts of BALB/c mice that were intraperitoneally injected with newborn bovine serum to induce the proliferation of extrahepatic bile ducts' epithelial cells and cultured on rat tail type I collagen-coated plastic culture flask containing DMEM/HamF12 with 10% FBS and 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor at 37C in an incubator with 5% humidified CO. The cells showed typical morphologic characteristics of epithelial phenotypes with cobblestone appearance in monolayer within 5-6 d after culture; they were positive against anticytokeratin-19 immunostaining. Transmission electron microscopy showed typical bile duct epithelia with microvilli on the cytomembrance, Golgi complex, massive mitochondria, and rough endoplasmic reticulum in the cytoplasmic. The growth curve of the epithelial cells was determined by a MTT assay which showed a normal sigmoidal growth curve. This culture technique might be a reliable method for isolation, purification, and primary culture of extrahepatic bile duct epithelial cells that can serve as a model for in vitro studies on the pathophysiology of hepatobiliary diseases as well as pharmacological and toxicological targets relevant to hepatobiliary diseases.
4294696|A system has been developed for the culture of cells that provides conditions favoring the formation of tissues comparable to conditions existing in nature. The culture chamber is a lens-shaped pouch composed of two thin-walled, reinforced, waffled collagen membranes facing each other. The chamber is immersed in medium in a closed transparent container and incubated on a rocker. On histologic study, after days to weeks in culture, human mammary cancer cell lines BT-20, MCF-7, MDA-231, MDA-468, and T47D grow in the chamber as distinctive structured epithelial tissue. Dog kidney cell line MDCK grows as a papillary adenocarcinoma and rat bladder cancer line NBT-II as an epidermoid carcinoma; cells from clinical effusion tumors produce distinct tissue. Changes in histologic phenotype may be driven by molecular changes at the level of the genome. Resulting alteration of the biochemical functions essential for the integrity of specific durable tissue organization should alter or reset the pattern of tissue organization and of biological behavior, including malignancy and response to cytotoxic chemicals. Lenticular pouch culture promises to be an effective tool for exploring the molecular changes associated with histogenesis and malignancy.
23481764|Epithelial cells from tracheal mucosa offer significant potential as a cell source in development of tissue-engineered trachea. The purpose of this study was to investigate and optimize a suitable culture system for tracheal epithelial cells, including the methods of primary culture, passage, identification, and cryopreservation. Epithelial cells were isolated from rabbit tracheal mucosa using tissue explant technique and were subjected to immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and cryopreservation after purification. Epithelial cells reached confluency at 1415 d. Immunohistochemical staining for cytokeratin showed brown yellow-positive cytoplasm and blue-counterstained nuclei, while immunofluorescence staining for cytokeratin showed green-positive cytoplasm and clear cell outline, indicating that the cultured cells had properties of epithelial cells. After recovery, epithelial cells exhibited high survival and viability. The results demonstrated that in vitro isolation and cultivation model was successfully established to provide high proliferative capacity, typical morphology and characteristics of tracheal epithelial cells from trachea mucosa by the use of the tissue explant technique.
4294983|The newly recognized steroid receptor coactivators (SRC-1, SRC-2, and SRC-3) belong to a homologous gene family and are important transcriptional mediators for nuclear receptors. Through fluorescence in situ hybridization, we have mapped the mouse SRC-1, SRC-2, and SRC-3 genes to chromosomal locations 12A2-A3, 1A3-A5, and 2H2-H4, respectively. By screening a mouse genomic DNA library, performing long-range polymerase chain reaction and sequencing, we have cloned and characterized the mouse SRC-3 gene. The SRC-3 gene contains 19 exons and spans more than 38 kilobases (kb). Intron sizes are variable. Intron 1 (13.5 kb) and intron 15 (4.6 kb) contribute to almost half the total length of the gene. Among 20 exons identified, exon 10 is the largest (869 bp) and encodes the receptor interaction domain. The start and stop codons for translation are in exon 2 and 20, respectively. The relationship between SRC-3 gene structure and its functional protein domains suggests that many functional domains or subdomains are encoded by individual exons. The correlation between gene structure and alternative splice variants is also discussed. In summary, we have defined the structure of mouse SRC-3 gene and found that the genes in the SRC family are located in different mouse chromosomes. This information is important for developing valuable animal models harboring multiple disruptions of the SRC gene family to study their biological functions.
4294662|We studied the factors that determine the differing growth requirements of low-iron-tolerant (LIT) versus high-iron-dependent (HID) cells for extracellular nontransferrin iron. The growth of LIT cells HeLa and THP-1, when transferred from transferrin (
4295172|A novel method for qualitative and quantitative analysis of monocyte transendothelial migration is described. By labeling monocytes and endothelial cells with different fluorophores, and utilizing confocal microscopy and three-dimensional image reconstruction, transmigrating monocytes were resolved and quantified within a subendothelial collagen gel. Comparison of monocyte migration across endothelial monolayers derived from human brain microvessels versus umbilical veins revealed diapedesis across brain endothelium to be significantly delayed. Inclusion of astrocytes within the sub-endothelial collagen gel resulted in the formation of an array of astrocytic processes that simulated the glia limitans surrounding brain microvessels in situ, thus yielding a more physiologic paradigm of the blood-brain barrier. By virtue of its unique capacity to provide information on the total number of migrating cells, this analytic approach overcomes significant caveats associated with sampling only aspects of the migration process. The potential adaptability of this method to computer-assisted analysis further enhances its prospective use in high-throughput screening.
4294679|Migration and tissue distribution of immunocompetent cells may be critical prerequisites for efficient immune surveillance. The effect of various concentrations of the mistletoe extract Iscador[REGISTERD TRADEMARK SIGN] QuFrF on the locomotory behavior and viability of immunomagnetically isolated human CD4
40602794|Many marine and freshwater organisms are rocky bottom dwellers, and the mineralogical composition of the substratum is known to potentially condition their biology and ecology. In this work, we propose the use of 3D sponge cellular aggregates, called primmorphs, as suitable models for a multidisciplinary study of the mechanisms which regulate the biological responses triggered by the contact with different inorganic substrata. In our experiments, primmorphs obtained from the marine sponge Petrosia ficiformis (Poiret, 1789) were reared on calcium carbonate or on quartzitic substrata, respectively, and their morphological development was described. In parallel, the quantitative expression levels of two genes, silicatein and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), were evaluated. The first gene is strictly correlated to spiculogenesis and sponge growth, while the second is an important indicator of stress. The results achieved with this in vitro model clearly demonstrate that quartzitic substrata determine the increase of silicatein gene expression, a lower expression of HSP70 gene, and a remarkable difference in primmorphs morphology compared to the analogous samples grown on marble.
4294428|We examined 12 non-small cell lung carcinoma cell lines for expression of airway goblet, serous, and mucous cell characteristics. The cells expressed some ultrastructural traits of secretory epithelial cells but none contained secretory granules typical of the airway secretory cells. Using immunocytochemistry and cell-specific monoclonal antibodies, we identified heterogeneous expression of goblet, mucous, and serous cell markers among the cell lines. After metabolic radiolabeling, cells incorporated isotope into high molecular weight material. Incubation of pulse-radiolabeled cells with a number of known mucus secretogogues revealed that 5 of the 12 cell lines released radiolabeled material in response to the agonists. However, in each cell line only one of the receptor-activated pathways tested was intact. Although we did not identify a single cell line expressing a phenotype similar to normal airway secretory cells, particular functions retained by some of these cell lines may make them useful for specific studies of mucus production or secretion.
4295349| Amoebocyte is the single type of cell circulating in the horseshoe crab hemolymph, which plays a major role in the defense system of the animal. Granules present in these cells are sensitive to nanogram quantities of bacterial endotoxins, which form the basis of the Limulus amoebocyte lysate (LAL) test. Normally, amoebocytes for the production of the LAL are collected by cardiac puncture; hence, development of the in vitro culture system for amoebocytes will reduce the variability of the lysate and help to conserve the 400 million-yr-old living fossil. In the present investigation we have attempted organ culture of gill flaps that have been shown to be the source of amoebocytes. The gill flaps were cultured at 28C on a rocker platform in a modified L-15 medium supplemented with 10% v/v horseshoe crab serum. This led to the release of amoebocytes outside the gill flaps for a period of 6-8 wk with a more or less steady number of amoebocytes during the weekly harvest. No significant difference was seen in the yield of amoebocytes from male and female horseshoe crabs. Confocal laser microscopy studies revealed significant difference in the size of amoebocytes released in vitro as compared with those obtained in vivo. Thus, we have optimized the culture conditions for the long-term generation of amoebocytes in vitro from the Indian horseshoe crab Tachypleus gigas by reducing the incidence of contamination, simulating in vivo conditions for the organ culture of gill flaps, and improvising the nutritional status using the modified L-15 medium, providing the desired osmolarity and pH. 
4295551|A mammary tumor cell line, designated MTCL, was successfully established from a mouse primary mammary tumor (MTP). The MTCL cells retain cytokeratin and both estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) in vitro. In vitro exposure of MTCL cells to progesterone causes a decrease in the cellular
4295269| Mouse hepatocytes immortalized with a temperature-sensitive allele of the SV40 large T-antigen (CHST8 cells) were found to lack the high expression of the gap junction proteins Cx26 and Cx32 that characterizes normal mouse hepatocytes, expressing instead Cx43 and Cx45 at minimal levels. In order to examine the growth suppressive function of Cx32 on hepatocytes, we transfected these CHST8 cells with human Cx32 complementary deoxyribonucleic acid and measured the growth rates at 33, 37, and 39 C. Expression of human Cx32 and its messenger ribonucleic acid in the stable cell lines was confirmed by immunocytochemistry and by Western and Northern blots analyses. Dye transfer following lucifer yellow injection into the transfectants was extensive; Cx32 channels displayed unitary conductances of about 70 pS and were moderately voltage sensitive. When cultured at 33 and 39 C, growth rates of both parental cells and transfectants were of the same level. When examined at 37 C, growth rate of the transfectant, which highly expressed Cx32 at the membranes, was significantly decreased compared to the parental cells. However, no changes in the expression of Cx32 protein in the transfectants were observed between 33 and 37 C. These results suggest that Cx32 expression could inhibit hepatocyte growth in vitro using the conditional immortalized cells. Cx32 transfectants using a conditional immortalized mouse hepatocyte may be useful for examining the mechanisms of growth and differentiation in hepatocytes by gap junction expression. 
4295383|Epidermal growth factor peptide binding was analyzed on primary cultures of colonic cells and along crypts by fluorescent laser-scanning confocal microscopy, using a three-dimensional image analysis software (Quant3D, Linux/Unix). Structural, proliferative units from primary cultures grown in rotating bioreactor for 41 d were arranged according to a tubular symmetry or on a parallelepiped sheet. Mean width, height, and depth of 23 tissue-like masses (
4295256| Squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) are the most common malignancies in man. While clinical specimens are theoretically ideal to study tumor development and progression, practical difficulties such as normal cell contamination, the presence of different cell types, and limited material make preclinical studies of model systems involving a homogeneous population of normal or transformed cells preferable. Tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) found on the cell surface, including integrins, mucins, cadherins, growth factor receptors, membrane bound antigens, and glycoproteins are known to play an important role in squamous carcinogenesis. We hypothesized that (1) alterations in TAA expression in vitro predict in vivo alterations, (2) analysis of a group of TAAs would provide a better indication of SCC tumorigenesis than any single marker, and (3) SCCs with independence from exogenous growth factors in vitro would demonstrate the most aggressive growth in vivo. The cell line which grew best in vitro without serum or other supplements demonstrated the most rapid tumor growth, whereas cell lines which grew only with supplements rarely formed tumors. Normal keratinocytes, eight SCC and two immortal keratinocyte cell lines were evaluated by flow cytometry for the expression of 10 cell surface markers, including  and  integrins, minor blood group-related carbohydrate determinants, carcinoembryonic antigen-related proteins, E-cadherin, and GA733 (epithelial glycoprotein, epithelial cell adhesion molecule). None of the cell lines with abnormal expression of 2 markers formed tumors, whereas all lines with altered expression of 3 markers formed tumors. Using GA733 expression as an example, we found that altered TAA expression in vitro predicted the presence of TAA alterations in clinical specimens. In summary, in vitro independence from supplements for optimal growth and altered expression of 3 cell surface markers were good predictors of SCC tumorigenesis. These findings may be useful in decreasing the need for whole animal tumorigenicity experiments. 
4294077| A human anaplastic thyroid cancer cell line K-119, derived from a 77-yr-old woman who had developed marked neutrophilia and underwent surgery for anaplastic thyroid cancer, has been established. The spindlelike and polygonal cells in shape are stably proliferating since the beginning of its culture 2 yr ago. The cells grow rapidly and the population doubling time is 26 h. The chromosomes show many abnormalities and many marker chromosomes have been observed. Heterotransplantation of the cells into nude mice has resulted in the formation of tumors that are histologically interpreted as anaplastic cancer. The most noteworthy characteristics of the cell line are the many Ki-67-positive cells (86.3%) and that the cell line spontaneously secretes granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and releases increased amounts of G-CSF in response to the stimulation of tumor necrosis factor, interleukin 1, and interleukin 1. The conditioned medium obtained from K-119 cells contains an autocrine factor stimulating the proliferation of themselves. 
4295313|The collagen gel contraction (CGC) assay is used frequently to study the cell-mediated reorganization of the extracellular matrix. In a typical CGC assay, cells embedded in a disk-shaped lattice (gel) of native type I collagen fibers compress the fibers and, consequently, reduce the diameter of the collagen disk within h or d. The degree to which the collagen is contracted is usually quantified by measurement of the diameter or the area of the disk. During CGC assays, friction or adhesion (or both) between gels and their culture containers can cause gels to be incompletely contracted or to acquire distorted shapes. Such occurrences degrade the reproducibility and reliability of measurements of gel dimensions. To address these problems, we developed an oil-supported collagen retraction (OSCR) assay that creates an environment of low friction and adhesion around the contracting collagen gel. The OSCR assay is accomplished with simple equipment and is easily performed, sensitive, and consistently yields fully contracted gels with minimal distortion.
20172170|Malignant features in three glioma cell lines were studied in four defined media of various complexity. The cell lines D37MG, D54MG, and GaMG were able to grow in monolayer culture in all media examined, and as multicellular tumor spheroids in the two most nutrient-rich media. In the defined media, none of the cell lines were able to migrate in a migration assay on poly-D-lysine-coated plastic surfaces. Flow cytometric analysis of the GaMG cell line demonstrated no medium-dependent selection of subclones of glioma cells in spheroids cultured for 30 d. Morphological diversity of spheroids varied according to the supplementation of the media. The capacity of glioma cells to invade cellular rat brain aggregates was intact in the media examined. However, glioma migration was severely inhibited by the lack of specific serum components. This study demonstrates that glioma growth and invasion was heterogeneously preserved in the defined media used. Depending on the assay to be used in the study of glioma cell behavior, the degree of medium supplementation has to be considered.
4295641|The clock genes family is expressed by all the somatic cells driving central and peripheral circadian rhythms through transcription/translation feedback loops. The circadian clock provides a local time for a cell and a way to integrate the normal environmental changes to smoothly adapt the cellular machinery to new conditions. The central circadian rhythm is retained in primary cultures by neurons of the suprachiasmatic nuclei. The peripheral circadian rhythms of the other somatic cells are progressively dampened down up to loss unless neuronal signals of the central clock are provided for reentrainment. Under typical culture conditions (obscurity,
4295418|Pharmacological treatments for psoriasis are generally based on antiproliferative, anti-inflammatory, or differentiation-modifying activity, or a combination of two or more of these actions. Potentially new drugs for treatment of psoriasis, which act on proliferation, can be identified by screening large compound libraries in a cell proliferation model that allows for characterization of drug effects on in vitro growth of normal human keratinocytes. High-throughput programs based on biological testing of diverse collections of compounds can rapidly identify leads for potential drug candidates in the treatment of psoriasis. In this study, we describe nonradioactive measurement of keratinocyte proliferation in the exponential growth phase in a 96-well format, using a sensitive deoxyribonucleic acid-binding dye to analyze drugs that are pharmacologically active in growth inhibition. Release of lactate dehydrogenase was used to exclude cytotoxic effects. We examined a number of compounds in a test range of 10
4295647| Derived from honeybees, melittin is a 26-amino acid, -helical, membrane-attack protein that efficiently kills mammalian cells. To investigate the contribution of colloid-osmotic effects to the mechanism of cell death, we studied the effect of melittin on lymphocyte membrane permeability and cell volumes. Melittin concentrations of 0.5 to 2.0 M induced release of membrane permeability markers without total disruption of the cell membrane. At these melittin concentrations, electrical-impedance cytometry demonstrated melittin-induced changes in red blood cell volumes (P < 0.01), but no change in lymphocyte cell volumes (P > 0.05). Streaming video microscopy, obtaining images of melittin-treated lymphocytes at 80-ms intervals, demonstrated a loss of optical density (P < 0.001) suggesting a flattening of the cell but no significant increase in cell perimeter (P > 0.05). Real-time multiparameter flow cytometry of melittin-treated lymphocytes confirmed simultaneous loss of the cytoplasmic marker, calcein, and uptake of the DNA dye, ethidium homodimer, but demonstrated no increase in forward light scatter. Transmission-electron microscopy of melittin-treated lymphocytes showed normal cell volumes but discontinuities in the cell membrane suggesting direct membrane toxicity. We conclude that melittin causes lymphocyte death by a "leaky patch" mechanism that is independent of colloid-osmotic effects. 
40205922|Today there is a concern about the use of animal source proteins and peptides in cell culture applications due to potential contamination by adventitious infectious pathogens. Recombinant production of these proteins using a plant host provides a safe and cost effective alternative. In this paper, we tested the effect of rice-derived recombinant human lactoferrin (rhLF) on mammalian cell growth. The purified rhLF was partially (about 50%) iron-saturated (pisrhLF). Chemical modification of pis-rhLF generated aporhLF (<10% iron saturation) or holo-rhLF (<90% iron saturation). All three forms of rhLF (pis, apo, holo) promoted growth of intestinal cells (HT-29) measured as [H]-thymidine incorporation or viable cell count, but holor-hLF was most effective. Holo-rhLF was further tested on hybridoma, osteoblast, and human embryonic kidney cells. Results showed that holo-rhLF promoted cell growth and reduced cell doubling time. The concentration of holo-rhLF in media was critical in promoting cell growth and each cell line had different concentration dependence with the most effective range from 5 to 200 mg/L. The effect of rhLF on antibody production was determined using a hybridoma cell line. Significantly, more antibodies were produced by cells grown with holo-rhLF than cells grown without holo-rhLF. We also compared the effect of holo-rhLF to that of human transferrin, a component commonly used in cell culture media as an iron source. Holo-rhLF was as effective as human transferrin in promoting cell growth and antibody production. Considering all the data obtained, we conclude that rhLF from rice is effective in promoting mammalian cell growth and increasing cell productivity.
4295069|Differentiation of skeletal muscle cells involves two distinct events: exit from the cell cycle and expression of muscle-specific contractile genes and formation of multinucleated myocytes. Although many studies have shown that growth factors regulate the initial step of differentiation, little is known about regulation of fusion. BC3H1 cells are a skeletal muscle cell line characterized by a nonfusing phenotype and an ability to dedifferentiate. When subjected to serum or growth factors, differentiated BC3H1 cells lose muscle-specific gene expression and re-enter the cell cycle. In this study, we describe a spontaneously fusing clone of BC3H1 cells. We demonstrate that this fusion capability is not due to altered muscle regulatory factor or adhesion molecule expression. Furthermore, we show that fusion inhibits dedifferentiation. Multinucleated BC3H1 cells do not lose myosin expression, nor do they re-enter the cell cycle. Fused BC3H1 cells react to serum stimulation with a hypertrophic response. Our results suggest that the state of differentiation, mono- or multinucleated, is essential to how myocytes react to growth stimulation and may provide a mechanism for how differentiation, fusion, and hypertrophy are regulated in vivo.
40205800|We developed a highly sensitive and convenient method of nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeted to mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) to identify animal species quickly in cultured cells. Fourteen vertebrate species, including human, cynomolgus monkey, African green monkey, mouse, rat, Syrian hamster, Chinese hamster, guinea pig, rabbit, dog, cat, cow, pig, and chicken, could be distinguished from each other by nested PCR. The first PCR amplifies mitochondrial DNA fragments with a universal primer pair complementary to the conserved regions of 14 species, and the second PCR amplifies the DNA fragments with species-specific primer pairs from the first products. The species-specific primer pairs were designed to easily distinguish 14 species from each other under standard agarose gel electrophoresis. We further developed the multiplex PCR using a mixture of seven species-specific primer pairs for two groups of animals. One was comprised of human, mouse, rat, cat, pig, cow, and rabbit, and the other was comprised of African green monkey, cynomolgus monkey, Syrian hamster, Chinese hamster, guinea pig, dog, and chicken. The sensitivity of the PCR assay was at least 100 pg DNA/reaction, which was sufficient for the detection of each species of DNA. Furthermore, the nested PCR method was able to identify the species in the interspecies mixture of DNA. Thus, the method developed in this study will provide a useful tool for the authentication of animal species.
4295528|
               
4295262|We report the development of a new serum-free medium based on the use of factorial experiments. At first, a variety of hydrolysates were screened using a fractional factorial approach with High-Five cells. From this experiment yeastolate ultrafiltrate was found to have, by far, the most important effect on cell growth. Furthermore, Primatone RL[REGISTER SIGN] was found to remarkably prolong the stationary phase of Sf-9 and High-Five cell cultures. The optimal concentrations for yeastolate and Primatone were determined to be 0.6 and 0.5%, respectively, on the basis of a complete factorial experiment. This new medium, called YPR, supported good growth of both Sf-9 and High-Five cells in batch cultures, with maximal densities of 5.4 and
4294990|The establishment of long-term cultures of functional primary human liver cells (PHLC) is formidable. Developed at NASA, the Rotary Cell Culture System (RCCS) allows the creation of the unique microgravity environment of low shear force, high-mass transfer, and 3-dimensional cell culture of dissimilar cell types. The aim of our study was to establish long-term hepatocyte cultures in simulated microgravity. PHLC were harvested from human livers by collagenase perfusion and were cultured in RCCS. PHLC aggregates were readily formed and increased up to 1 cm long. The expansion of PHLC in bioreactors was further evaluated with microcarriers and biodegradable scaffolds. While microcarriers were not conducive to formation of spheroids, PHLC cultured with biodegradable scaffolds formed aggregates up to 3 cm long. Analyses of PHLC spheroids revealed tissue-like structures composed of hepatocytes, biliary epithelial cells, and/or progenitor liver cells that were arranged as bile duct-like structures along nascent vascular sprouts. Electron microscopy revealed groups of cohesive hepatocytes surrounded by complex stromal structures and reticulin fibers, bile canaliculi with multiple microvilli, and tight cellular junctions. Albumin mRNA was expressed throughout the 60-d culture. A simulated microgravity environment is conducive to maintaining long-term cultures of functional hepatocytes. This model system will assist in developing improved protocols for autologous hepatocyte transplantation, gene therapy, and liver assist devices, and facilitate studies of liver regeneration and cell-to-cell interactions that occur in vivo.
4294854|Lineage analysis in vitro of heterogeneous tissues such as mammary epithelium requires the separation of constituent cell types and their growth as clones. The separation of virgin mouse mammary luminal epithelial and myoepithelial cells by fluorescence-activated cell-sorting, their growth at clonal density, and the phenotyping of the clones obtained with cell-type specific markers are described in this paper. Epithelial cells were isolated by collagenase digestion followed by trypsinization, and the luminal and myoepithelial cells were flow-sorted with the rat monoclonal antibodies 33A10 and JB6, respectively. Sorted cells were cloned under, using low oxygen conditions (<5% vol/vol), in medium containing cholera toxin and insulin, with an irradiated feeder layer of 3T3-L1 cells. Clones were characterized morphologically, and antigenically by multiple immunofluorescence with a panel of antibodies to cytoskeletal antigens specific to either luminal epithelial or myoepithelial cells in situ. Whereas sorted myoepithelial cells gave a single clone type, sorted luminal cells gave three morphological clone types, two of which grew rapidly. All myoepithelially derived clones showed a limited proliferative capacity in vitro, in contrast to their rat and human counterparts, as shown in previous studies. The present results with sorted mouse cells have also allowed the stability of the differentiated phenotype in mouse, rat, and human mammary luminal epithelial and myoepithelial cells in primary clonal culture to be compared. They show that the mouse mammary cells are the least stable in terms of expression of differentiation-specific cytoskeletal markers in vitro.
4294871|We have used in vivo balloon catheterization in combination with in vitro organ culture to develop a model system for vascular neointima formation. A Fogarty balloon catheter was used to deendothelialize and rupture the internal elastic lamina of aortae in adult rabbits. After three d of recovery, aortae were harvested, divided into segments, and placed into organ culture. We obtained a daily index of cell proliferation in cultured vessels using [
4295409|Estrogens upregulate estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) gene expression in endometrium immediately before ovulation to prepare it for nurturing embryos. Most in vitro model systems have lost the ability to upregulate expression of the ER gene in response to estradiol (E2) or the ability to express the ER gene at all. Here, we used explant cultures from control and E2-treated ewes and assessed expression of four genes (ER, PR, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase [GAPDH], and cyclophilin [CYC] genes) that are upregulated by E2 in vivo on Northern blots. In cultures from control and E2-treated ewes, ER and PR messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels dropped significantly during 24 h of culture in the absence of E2. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase mRNA levels increased 300% in explants from control ewes to match the higher levels in the endometrium of the E2-treated ewe (in vivo and in explant culture). The only effect of E2 in the explant cultures was to prevent the decrease in PR mRNA. The new selective ER modulator, EM-800 (EM), decreased ER and PR mRNA levels in explants from control ewes but upregulated GAPDH and CYC mRNA levels. The EM treatment in vitro mimicked that of E2 by increasing the half-life of ER mRNA in endometrial explants. These data illustrate distinct, gene-specific effects of the explant culture process, E2, and EM on the expression of endometrial genes.
4295586| Endothelial cells are a structural barrier and an active regulator of many bodily processes. Cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A) activity is induced in the endothelium of teleosts and mammals exposed to lipophilic xenobiotics, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and can have significant consequences for endothelial functions. We exposed cultures of characterized endothelial cells from the heart, kidney, and rete mirabile of the eel, Anguilla rostrata, to aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists. In heart endothelial cells, the maximum response (based on O-deethylation of 7-ethoxyresorufin to resorufin [EROD] activity) to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), 113 pmol/mg/min, was at 1 nM TCDD and the peak response to -napthoflavone (NF), 135 pmol/mg/min, was at 3 M NF. The maximum response to TCDD in the kidney endothelial cells is 12 pmol/mg/min at 0.3 nM TCDD. The rete mirabile capillary endothelial cells responded minimally or not at all to exposure to TCDD and NF. Both the heart and kidney endothelial cells (but not the rete mirabile capillary cells) have a low level of EROD activity (12.7 and 5.2 pmol/mg/min, respectively) in untreated or dimethylsulfoxide-treated cells. The robust response of the heart endothelial cells to induction and the lack of response in the rete mirabile capillary endothelial cells indicate that these cells are a good resource to use to investigate the physiological consequences of AhR agonist exposure and CYP1A induction in different areas of the vasculature. 
4294115|This study reports the selection and characterization of osteogenic precursors from human bone marrow which were isolated by two "clonings" and successive subculturing. These cell lines express alkaline phosphatase activity. Gel electrophoresis of
4295386|A human neuroblastoma cell line (IMR-32), when differentiated, mimics large projections of the human cerebral cortex and under certain tissue culture conditions, forms intracellular fibrillary material, commonly observed in brains of patients affected with Alzheimer's disease. Our purpose is to use differentiated IMR-32 cells as an in vitro system for magnetic field exposure studies. We have previously studied in vitro differentiation of murine neuroblastoma (N1E-115) cells with respect to resting membrane potential development. The purpose of this study was to extend our investigation to IMR-32 cells. Electrophysiological (resting membrane potential, V
4294193|A procedure for the culture of isolated wool follicles from Merino sheep is described. Follicles were microdissected from midside skin samples of 2-yr-old wethers and transferred, individually, to 24-well tissue culture plates. When maintained in supplemented Williams' E medium containing 5 to 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), insulin, hydrocortisone, and a trace element mixture, fiber growth rates of 40 to
4294083|We report the development and characterization of a system of primary culture of ovine fetal hepatocytes to aid in the understanding of the cellular regulation of fetal growth and metabolism with emphasis on amino acid metabolism and insulinlike growth factor gene expression and to allow comparison to in vivo studies. Hepatocytes were isolated from late gestation fetal lambs by in situ perfusion and collagenase digestion utilizing occlusion of the ductus venosus to limit intrahepatic shunting. Hepatocytes were cultured in media modified to mimic fetal concentrations of glucose, lactate, and amino acids. Ovine fetal hepatocytes in primary culture maintain the pattern of fetal amino acid production and utilization seen across the fetal liver in vivo. Specifically, there is a net production of serine and a net utilization of glycine. Cultured ovine fetal hepatocytes specifically increase tritiated thymidine incorporation in response to insulin and insulinlike growth factor II (IGF-II). IGF-II mRNA abundance is high and IGF-I mRNA is low in cultured ovine fetal hepatocytes as in the fetal sheep liver in vivo. These data demonstrate the successful isolation of ovine fetal hepatocytes that retain some of the characteristics of the ovine fetal liver while maintained in short-term culture.
4295467|To optimize the in vitro production of Choristoneura fumiferana nucleopolyhedrovirus (CfMNPV) as a potential microbial pest control agent, the pathogenicity of occlusion bodies (OBs) produced in two cell lines at three incubation temperatures was determined by bioassay. A plaque-purified isolate of CfMNPV was amplified in permissive C. fumiferana cell lines, FPMI-CF-203 and FPMI-CF-2C1, and incubated at 22, 24, and
20869571|A taste bud is a sensory organ and consists of 50100 spindle-shaped cells. The cells function as taste acceptors. They have characteristics of both epithelial and neuronal cells. A taste bud contains four types of cells, type I, type II, type III cells, and basal cells. Taste buds were isolated from a tongue of a p53-deficient mouse at day 12, and 11 clonal taste bud (TBD) cell lines were established. In immunochemical analysis, all cell lines expressed cytokeratin 18, gustducin, T1R3, and neural cellular adhesion molecule, but not GLAST. In RT-PCR analysis, shh was not expressed in any of the cell lines. Further analysis with RT-PCR was conducted on four cell lines. They expressed G protein-coupled taste receptors; T1R3, T2R8 for sweet, bitter, umami. And they also expressed -ENaC for salty taste. While, a candidate for sour receptor HCN4 was expressed in TBD-a1 and TBD-a7 lines. And another candidate for sour receptor PKD1L3 was slightly expressed in TBD-a1 and TBD-c1.
4294114|Previous studies have demonstrated that as the density of cultured oral epithelial cells increases, there is a concomitant increase in phospholipids and cholesterol ester synthesis and a decrease in that of cholesterol and sterol precursors. Other studies have suggested that the effects of exogenous cholesterol sulfate may be similar to growth responses and influence metabolic steps related to cell density. To further examine this possibility, in the present study lipid synthesis was monitored in hamster cheek pouch epithelial cells in cultures established at different cells densities and in the presence of varying amounts of exogenous cholesterol sulfate. Cell [
4295165|Expansion and/or maintenance of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) potential following in vitro culture remains a major obstacle in stem cell biology and bone marrow (BM) transplantation. Several studies suggest that culture of mammalian cells in microgravity (
23481779|Recent findings have demonstrated umbilical cord, previously considered as a biomedical waste, as a source of stem cells with promising therapeutic applications in human as well as livestock species. The present study was carried out to isolate the umbilical cord matrix cells and culture for a prolonged period, cryopreserve these cells and test their post-thaw viability, characterize these cells for expression of stem cell markers and differentiation potential in vitro. The intact umbilical cord was taken out of the amniotic sac of a fetus and then incised longitudinally to remove umbilical vessels. Wharton's jelly containing tissue was diced into small pieces and placed in tiny drops of recalcified buffalo plasma for establishing their primary culture. Confluent primary culture was trypsinized and passaged with a split ratio of 1:2 for multiplication of cells. Cryopreservation of cells was performed at three different passages in cryopreservation medium containing 15%, 20% and 25% fetal bovine serum (FBS). A significant increase in post-thaw viability was observed in cells cryopreserved in freezing medium with higher concentration of FBS. After re-culturing, frozen-thawed cells started adhering, and spike formation occurred within 46 h with similar morphology to their parent representative cultures. The normal karyotype and positive expression of alkaline phosphatase and pluripotency genes OCT4, NANOG and SOX2 were observed at different passages of culture. When induced, these cells differentiated into adipogenic and osteogenic cells as confirmed by oil red O and alizarin red stains, respectively. This study indicates that buffalo umbilical cord matrix cells have stemness properties with mesenchymal lineage restricted differentiation and limited proliferation potential in vitro.
4294146|Cell cultures of primary mouse granulosa cells were transfected with a v-myc-containing plasmid, and the resulting stable cell lines were tested for their steroidogenic properties and physiologic status. Granulosa cells were obtained from 22-day-old NMRI mice injected with 8 IU pregnant mare serum gonadotropin i.p. 2 days earlier. In Passage 1 the cells were transfected with pSVv-myc using calcium phosphate precipitation or lipofectin. The
23353405|Fetal fibroblast cells (FFCs) are often used as donor cells for somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) because they are easy to culture and suitable for genetic manipulation. However, through genetic modification process, which required FFCs to be cultured in vitro for several passages, cells tended to age very rapidly and became inappropriate for SCNT. Human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) possessed the activity of human telomerase and maintains telomere in dividing cells; therefore, hTERT can be transfected into somatic cells to extend their lifespan. In this study, we transfected a Xinong Saanen Dairy Goat FFC line with hTERT. Then, we tested several characteristics of transfected cells, including growth curve, expression and activity of hTERT, tumorigenicity, and expression of oct4 and nanog. The result showed that hTERT could significantly extend the lifespan of transfected cells in vitro. hTERT mRNA was expressed in hTERT-transfected cells. Moreover, hTERT-transfected cells presented enhanced telomerase activity and longer telomere than untransfected cells at the same passage. On the other hand, hTERT-transfected cells can maintain normal karyotype even after several times of subculture in vitro. After inoculation of hTERT-transfected cells in nude mouse, none of them developed tumors on the vaccination site. Interestingly, transfection of hTERT can improve expression of nanog and oct4 in Xinong Saanen Dairy Goat FFCs, especially in low generation after transfection, but with increasing subculture, this effect gradually weakened.
40602776|Murine calvariae pre-osteoblasts (MC3T3-E1), grown in a novel bioreactor, proliferate into a mineralizing 3D osteoblastic tissue that undergoes progressive phenotypic maturation into osteocyte-like cells. Initially, the cells are closely packed (high cell/matrix ratio), but transform into a more mature phenotype (low cell/matrix ratio) after about 5 mo, a process that recapitulates stages of bone development observed in vivo. The cell morphology concomitantly evolves from spindle-shaped pre-osteoblasts through cobblestone-shaped osteoblasts to stellate-shaped osteocyte-like cells interconnected by many intercellular processes. Gene-expression profiles parallel cell morphological changes, up-to-and-including increased expression of osteocyte-associated genes such as E11, DMP1, and sclerostin. X-ray scattering and infrared spectroscopy of contiguous, square centimeter-scale macroscopic mineral deposits are consistent with bone hydroxyapatite, showing that bioreactor conditions can lead to ossification reminiscent of bone formation. Thus, extended-term osteoblast culture (< 10 mo) in a bioreactor based on the concept of simultaneous growth and dialysis captures the full continuum of bone development otherwise inaccessible with conventional cell culture, resulting in an in vitro model of osteogenesis and a source of terminally differentiated osteocytes that does not require demineralization of fully formed bone.
4294982|Nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus represents a risk factor for subsequent invasive infections and interpatient transmission of strains. No physiological in vitro model of nasal epithelial cells is available to study both patient- and bacteria-related characteristics and their interaction, leading to adherence and colonization. Starting with tissues from human nasal polyps, a confluent, squamous, nonkeratinized epithelium in collagen-coated 96-well microtiter plates was obtained after 14 d. This in vitro cell-layer was characterized histologically, ultrastructurally, and immunohistochemically and showed features that were indistinguishable from those observed in the squamous nonkeratinized epithelium found in the posterior part of the vestibulum nasi. Adherence experiments were performed with four different
40928172|Protein phosphatase 2A (PP-2A) has been implicated to be crucial in neural development and the normal function of nervous system. However, little is known about its role in neuritogenesis. In this study, we reported that inhibition of PP-2A strongly suppresses the outgrowth of cell processes only during the initiation stage, while activation of PP-2A promotes extensive outgrowth of long neuntes in Neura2A cells and long single axon or multiple axons in hippocampal neurons. Our results indicated that PP-2A may be an important positive regulator in neurite outgrowth, and upregulation PP-2A could be a possible target for the therapy of axonopathy in neural diseases.
4294033|A valuable system has been developed to study replication of adult beta cells. Isolated islets from adult rats were partially dispersed and plated on dishes coated with extracellular matrix from bovine-corneal endothelial cells. Within 24 h islet cells attached to the matrix and formed a monolayer. The proportion of insulin-, glucagon-, and somatostatin-conining cells in the cultures was characteristic of whole islets. Function of beta cells was assessed by measuring glucose-imulated insulin release. Insulin release from 7-day-old cultures increased 19-fold after a 16.7 mM glucose challenge indicating that beta-cell function was normal. Cellular replication in the cultures was assessed using the thymidine analogue 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU). BrdU incorporation was noted in insulin-, glucagon-, and somatostatin-conining cells and also in non-endocrine cells. Among endocrine cells, the majority of BrdU labeling occurred in beta cells. Beta-cell replication potential was assessed using different concentrations of glucose. The incorporation of BrdU into beta cells was affected in a dose-dependent manner by glucose; over a 10-fold increase of beta-cell BrdU labeling was observed when glucose concentration was raised from 5.5 to 16.7 mM. The system proved advantageous for studying the replication potential of adult beta cells.
4295513|This article describes the culture of epithelial cells from anterior and posterior midgut regions of adult Dendroctonus valens. Culture conditions were established, and cell adherence was improved by means of a new technique that allowed the cells to grow between two glass coverslips. Cytoplasmic projections occur as anterior midgut cells grow to confluence; these projections were not observed in cells of the posterior midgut. The optimal culture medium for the maintenance of these epithelial cells was Roswell Park Memorial Institute 1640 medium at 25 C. Cells in Grace's medium died in 24 h. Cultures did not require CO
23481780|The expression of the gene encoding myostatin (MSTN), the product of which is a negative regulator of skeletal muscle growth and development in mammals, is regulated by many cis-regulatory elements, including enhancer box (E-box) motifs. While E-box motif mutants of MSTN exhibit altered expression of myostatin in many animal models, the phenotypes of these mutations in chicken are not investigated. In this study, we cloned and sequenced the full encoded DNA sequence of MSTN gene and its upstream promoter region in Wenshang Luhua chicken breed. After analysis of the sequence, 13 E-box motifs were identified in the MSTN promoter region, which were denoted by E1 to E13 according to their positions in the region. Although many single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were revealed in the MSTN promoter region, only two SNPs were in the E-boxes, i.e., the first nucleotide of the E3 and the fifth nucleotide of E4. The effects of these two polymorphisms on the expression of MSTN gene were explored both with MSTN-GFP reporter constructs in vitro and real-time PCR in vivo. The results suggested that the E-boxes in the chicken MSTN promoter region are involved in the regulation of myostatin expression and the polymorphisms in E3 and E4 altered the expression of myostatin.
4294128| The biosynthetic profile of endothelial cells responding to hyperthermia is altered by extracellular matrix components. The extracellular matrix components influence the quantitative expression of members of the HSP70 family and HSP90. The expression of several HSP70 mRNA species, which are strictly stress inducible, are modulated by extracellular matrix components. Both laminin and collagen type IV decrease the amount of HSP70 protein and mRNA expressed by endothelial cells exposed to hyperthermia relative to control cultures attached to virgin plastic. In contrast, both laminin and collagen type IV increased the amount of HSP90 mRNA constitutively expressed by endothelial cells at 37 C. When endothelial cells were exposed to elevated temperatures, these two extracellular matrix proteins decrease the amount of HSP90 mRNA relative to control cultures attached to virgin plastic. Our observations are consistent with the proposal that the extracellular matrix components regulate gene expression and cell behavior in regard to thermotolerance. 
40602785|A media for the production of cell cultures from hymenopteran species such as honey bee, Apis mellifera L. (Hymenoptera: Apidae) was developed. Multiple bee cell cultures were produced when using bee larvae and pupae as starting material and modified Hert-Hunter 70 media. Cell culture systems for bees solves an impasse that has hindered efforts to isolate and screen pathogens which may be influencing or causing colony collapse disorder of bees. Multiple life stages of maturing larvae to early pupae were used to successfully establish cell cultures from the tissues of the head, thorax, and abdomen. Multiple cell types were observed which included free-floating suspensions, fibroblast-like, and epithelia-like monolayers. The final culture medium, WH2, was originally developed for hemipterans, Asian citrus psyllid, Diaphorina citri, and leafhopper, Homalodisca vitripennis cell cultures but has been shown to work for a diverse range of insect species such as bees. Bee cell cultures had various doubling times at 21-23C ranging from 9-15 d. Deformed wing virus was detected in the primary explanted tissues, which tested negative by rt-PCR for Israeli acute paralysis virus (IAPV), Kashmir bee virus, acute bee paralysis virus, and black queen cell virus.Culture inoculation with IAPV from an isolate from Florida field samples, was detectable in cell cultures after two subcultures. Cell culture from hymenoptera species, such as bees, greatly advances the approaches available to the field of study on colony collapse disorders.
20172248| A previous study described a cytoplasmic, transferrin (Tf)-free, iron (Fe) pool that was detected only when cells were mechanically detached from the culture substratum at 4 C, after initial incubation with Fe-I-Tf at 37 C (Richardson and Baker, 1992a). The release of this internalized Fe could be markedly reduced if the cells were treated with proteases or incubated at 37 C prior to detachment. The present study was designed to characterize this Fe pool and understand the mechanism of its release. The results show that cellular Fe release increased linearly as a function of preincubation time with Fe-Tf subsequent to mechanical detachment at 4 C using a spatula. These data suggest that the Fe released was largely composed of end product(s) and was not an "intermediate Fe pool." When the Fe(II) chelator, dipyridyl (DP), was incubated with Fe-Tf and the cells, it prevented the accumulation of Fe that was released following mechanical detachment at 4 C. Other chelators had much less effect on the proportion of Fe released. Examination of the Fe released showed that after a 4-h preincubation with Fe-Tf, approximately 50% of the Fe was present in ferritin. These data indicate that mechanical detachment of cells at 4 C resulted in membrane disruptions that allow the release of high M, molecules. Moreover, electron microscopy studies showed that detachment of cells from the substratum at 4 C resulted in pronounced membrane damage. In contrast, when cells were detached at 37 C, or at 4 C after treatment with pronase, membrane damage was minimal or not apparent. These results may imply that temperature-dependent processes prevent the release of intracellular contents on membrane wounding, or alternatively, prevent wounding at 37 C. The evidence also indicates that caution is required when interpreting data from experiments where cells have been mechanically detached at 4 C. 
4295573|Five different immortalized transgenic hepatocyte cell lines derived from mice were investigated with respect to their potential to maintain the physiological properties of primary hepatocytes using chemically defined medium. This research completes a previous study by Klocke and coworkers in 2002, using gene expression analysis of the same cell lines by the respective physiological analysis for investigating the hepatocyte-like function. Three transgenic cell lines harboring a fusion gene derivative (construct 202) consisting of the complete SV40 early region, including the coding sequences for the transforming large and small tumor antigens, placed under the control of the murine metallothioneine 1-promotor/enhancer element, showed a hepatocyte-like function and physiology. They grew as a monolayer with a polygonal cell shape, consumed lactate, and secreted albumin at a cell-specific rate of 1.5 pg/h, which is in the range of primary hepatocytes. In addition, the potential of detoxifying ammonium could be maintained. Ammonium was metabolized and urea was produced and released into the medium. A complete urea cycle could be determined. A cell line established from neonatal transgenic mice and expressing a secretory variant of the human epidermal growth factor (IgEGF) under the control of the albumin promoter was characterized by an incomplete urea cycle. Another cell line isolated from the liver of homozygote neonatal p53-knockout mice showed no hepatocyte-specific functions but only properties of continuous cell lines. Specific nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) and uridine (U) ratios were used to characterize the differentiation status of the particular cell lines. A low NTP-U value was found for the three cell lines containing construct 202, which was identical to that observed for primary hepatocytes. In contrast, the cell line harvested from the liver of homozygote neonatal p53-knockout mice presented a NTP-U ratio characteristic for continuous cell lines. This study demonstrates that the four transgenic and the p53-knockout hepatocyte-derived cell lines can be used as models for investigating the conservation of tissue-specific functions in immortalized cells.
20172168| Clonal cell lines (BME-UV) were established from primary epithelial cells by stable transfection with a plasmid, carrying the sequence of the simian virus 40 early region mutant tsA58, encoding the thermolabile large T antigen. The BME-UV cells have undergone more than 300 population doublings and produce intranuclear large T antigen. At low confluency, growing islands of cells are apparent exhibiting the characteristic cobblestone morphology of epithelial cells. The BME-UV cells expressed functional markers such as microvilli and desmosomes and biochemical markers of mammary epithelial cells such as a repertoire of cytokeratins. The BME-UV cells are capable of synthesizing low levels of -lactalbumin and
4295339|Lipotropes, a methyl group containing nutrients, including choline, methionine, folic acid, and vitamin B
40205845|TGF-l is thought to decrease the proportion of embryonic pancreatic -cells with respect to -cells, whereas glucose is thought to enhance -cell proportions in rats. However, chick pancreatic cells may respond in a dissimilar way to glucose. Thus, the effect of TGF-l on the proportion of -cells in embryonic chick dorsal pancreatic buds (DPBs) in vitro was tested with short-term exposure to high levels of glucose. Five-day-old chick DPBs were cultured on growth factor-reduced Matrigel, which contains reduced levels of growth factors including TGF-l, and a variety of culture media with and without high levels of glucose. TGF-l reduced the proportion of -cells, as expected. A similar decrease in the proportion of -cells occurred in the presence of high levels of glucose.
23481783|Since bone defects can lead to various disabilities, in recent years, many increasing attempts have been made in bone tissue engineering. In this regard, scaffolds have attracted a lot of attention as three dimensional substrates for cell attachment which improve successful tissue engineering. The aim of the present study was to provide an interconnected porous scaffold to facilitate cell infiltration. To do so, cancellous bone from bovine femur was dissected in fragments and decellularized by physicochemical methods, including snap freeze/thaw, rinsing in hot water and treatment with different solutions of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Histological analysis and 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining revealed that the best results were obtained after treatment with 2.5%, 5%, and 8% SDS for 8, 3, or 1 h respectively, which significantly removed bone cells with intact trabeculae geometry. Further characterization of decellularized scaffolds by the compression tests also revealed no significant difference between elastic modulus values of the three different SDS treatments. Moreover, studying the ratio of bone trabeculae to bone surfaces (BT/BS) as assessed by Clemex vision software 3.5 showed that treatment with 2.5% SDS for 8 h resulted in a BT/BS score in the range of native bone and therefore this treatment was used for further experiments. Histological studies and scanning electron microscopy revealed rat mesenchymal stem cells integration, adhesion, and maintenance during the 2 and 7 d of culture in vitro. In conclusion, the present results support the effective role of SDS in cancellous bovine bone decellularization and also propensity of treated samples in providing a suitable three-dimentional environment to support the maintenance and growth of mesenchymal stem cells.
4295340|The purpose of this study is to identify the separation techniques that result in pure cultures of rat microvascular endothelial cells (MECs). A multistep process is used to optimize the separation of the cells from rat epididymal fat pads, obtaining as pure a culture as possible within a relatively short processing time. The process initially employs the digestion, filtration, and density gradient separation steps. We further describe the use of an attachment phase that allows the differential adherence of contaminating cell types. Immunomagnetic purification is the final step in the process and is performed using anti-PECAM-1 (CD31) monoclonal antibody-labeled DynaBeads.
40205928|Extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules constitute a "niche" that modulates the migration, proliferation, and differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs). The glycoprotein Tenascin-R (TN-R) is an ECM molecule, comprising multiple domains. Either the whole TN-R molecule or its distinct domains has been demonstrated to play a very important role in the developing central nervous system. However, little is known about the effect of the TN-R domain on NSPCs, especially NSPC migration. In the present study, we first show that both TN-R domains epidermal growth factor-like repeat (EGFL) and fibronectin type III (FN) 6-8 can inhibit the NSPCs migration from neurospheres in vitro. Furthermore, both the EGFL and FN68 domains affect the distribution of neurons generated from neurospheres, indicating that EGFL and FN68 domains inhibit the motility of neurons generated from neurospheres. These results suggest that TN-R has an inhibitory effect on NSPCs migration.
40205935|The tongue represents a very accessible source of tissue-specific epithelial stem cells of endodermal origin. However, little is known about the properties of these cells and the mechanisms regulating their proliferation and differentiation. Foxa2, an endodermal marker, is expressed throughout the tongue epithelium during embryonic development but becomes confined to a minority of basal cells and some taste bud sensory cells in the adult tongue. Using a previously described line of transgenic mice in which enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) is expressed under the control of a human keratin 5 promoter region (Krt5-eGFP), we have isolated a subpopulation of cells in the basal epithelial layer of the mouse tongue with a high efficiency of generating holoclones of undifferentiated cells in culture with a feeder layer.
40205933|The stability of two nitrosoureas, tauromustine and lomustine, has been investigated in different media and buffers. All media tested, except Leibovitz's L-15 medium, significantly increased the degradation rate of the investigated nitrosoureas at pH 7.4. Sodium bicarbonate seems to be the cause of the observed increase of the degradation rate, since it provides the main buffering capacity of all the media except for Leibovitz's L-15 medium, which is based on phosphate buffer. Other ingredients in the media, such as amino acids, vitamins, and inorganic salts, or the ionic strength of a buffer, did not have any major effect on the degradation rate of the nitrosoureas. These results suggest that media containing carbonated buffer should be avoided when the anti-tumor effect of nitrosoureas is to be investigated in different cell cultures.
4295684|Three insect cell lines, IPLB-LdFB and IPLB-LdEIta from gypsy moth fat body and embryos and UFL-AG-286 from velvetbean caterpillar embryos, have been concurrently maintained for 1 to 12 yr on two media formulations, modified TC-100 containing 9% fetal bovine serum and Ex-cell 400, a commercial serum-free medium (SFM). Cells grown in each medium were tested for susceptibility to and productivity of various multiply embedded nucleopolyhedroviruses. The three lines chosen for these experiments fall into three categories of relative growth in SFM versus TC-100: LdFB cells grew similarly in each medium, LdEIta grew better in Ex-Cell than in TC-100, and AG-286 grew better in TC-100 than in Ex-Cell. The susceptibility of cells to infection also varies, although without any apparent correlation to which medium was best for supporting growth. Endpoint assays suggested that LdFB cells grown in serum-containing medium are more susceptible to virus infection than their SFM counterparts, while the opposite is true for LdEIta cells. Production of virus, based on numbers of occlusion bodies, showed fewer differences with only AcMNPV production with AG-286 in TC-100 being statistically higher than production of the same virus in Ex-cell 400. These studies suggest that long-term passage in alternative media may impact the ability of cells to support virus infection and replication, but the effects on each cell line and virus system need to be determined.
4294252|A number of studies have shown that human keratinocytes cultured in submerged conditions with non-delipidized serum do not express the major differentiation markers, i.e. 67 kDa keratin, ceramides, and lanosterol. However, they were mostly performed with neonatal or juvenile keratinocytes after a few passages, and not all the markers were analyzed in parallel. In this study, we compared the expression of several differentiation markers in preconfluent and postconfluent adult breast keratinocytes in primary and secondary cultures before and after cryopreservation. When primary cultures reached confluence, the 67 kDa keratin was synthesized, transglutaminase activity was increased, and, although overall lipid synthesis dropped, both lanosterol and free fatty acids contents were augmented. The same pattern was observed in postconfluent subcultures at Passage 2; however decreased overall lipid synthesis was more pronounced. Cryopreservation of keratinocytes just after isolation or after a few days in culture did not result in the loss of expression of these specific epidermic markers. Thus, adult breast keratinocytes in postconfluent submerged cultures represent an in vitro model that possesses various features of the normal epidermis, even after cryopreservation.
40802407|The importance of obtaining stem cells through alternative methods has increased progressively in the recent years due to the potential role that embryonic stem (ES) cells play in the field of regenerative medicine. In this regard, generation of parthenogenetic blastocysts allows the production of ethic-free ES cells without the need to manipulate normal embryos. Our work was aimed at clarifying whether variations in the method adopted to generate diploid parthenogenetic blastocysts could determine differences in the quality of blastocysts produced. In vitro development of mouse oocytes activated with three protocols, using Sr and cytochalasin for different time, was compared with that of in vivo fertilized embryos. We have evaluated the efficiency of blastocyst formation and analysed the expression pattern of the sternness markers OCT4, CDX2, and NANOG. Our results indicate that the yield of diploid parthenogenotes and the segregation of the sternness marker OCT4 in the developing blastocyst are influenced by the parthenogenetic protocol adopted. Particularly, even if all methods tested allowed the production of blastocysts in vitro, the correct segregation of OCT4 occurred only in blastocysts developed from oocytes concomitantly treated for 4 h with Sr and cytochalasin D. Our results indicate that the protocol employed to develop parthenogenetic blastocysts in vitro affects the quality of cells in the inner cell mass.
4294061|Clostridium botulinum type toxin A (BoTx) blocks stimulus-induced acetylcholine (ACh) release from presynaptic nerve terminals at peripheral neuromuscular junctions. However, the detailed mechanism of this effect remains elusive. One obstacle in solving this problem is the lack of a suitable in vitro homogenous cholinergic neuronal model system. We studied the clonal pheochromocytoma PC12 cell line to establish such a model. PC12 cells were differentiated in culture by treatment with 50 ng/ml nerve growth factor (NGF) for 4 days to enhance cellular ACh synthesis and release properties. Stimulation of these cells with high K
4294677|The aim of this study was to better characterize rabbit proximal kidney tubule cells cultured on collagen IV-coated porous inserts, as compared to the same cells seeded in standard plastic wells. Total protein contents in confluent monolayers on permeable membranes were about twofold higher than those measured in confluent cultures in plastic wells. Microscopy examinations suggested that such a difference was probably due to a higher cell density and to an impressive development of the apical brush-border membrane. Moreover, measurement of unidirectional transport of p-aminohippuric acid and tetraethylammonium bromide confirmed the high polarization level of cultures on porous inserts. Results of
4295421|The purpose of the this study was to find media that supported high levels of differentiation in primary cultures of human tracheal epithelium. We tested six previously described, partially defined media and three nondefined media. Cells were grown with an air interface on porous-bottomed inserts, and differentiation was assessed from electrophysiological properties, levels of total protein and deoxyribonucleic acid, and histology. In all media, cells polarized and developed tight junctions, as assessed from transepithelial electrical resistance and were better differentiated at 14 d after plating than at 7 d. The partially defined media described previously by Gray et al. (Am. J. Respir. Cell. Mol. Biol. 14:104-112; 1996) and Matsui et al. (J. Clin. Invest. 102:1125-1131; 1998) and an undefined medium containing Ultroser G serum substitute produced the most highly differentiated epithelial cells, as revealed by a high short-circuit current (I
23353411|The obligate intracellular bacterium, Wolbachia pipientis (Rickettsiales: Anaplasmataceae), distorts reproduction of its arthropod hosts to facilitate invasion of nave populations. This property makes Wolbachia an attractive "gene drive" agent with potential applications in the control of insect vector populations. Genetic manipulation of Wolbachia will require in vitro systems for its propagation, genetic modification, amplification, and introduction into target insects. Here we show that Wolbachia from the planthopper, Laodelphax striatellus, establishes a robust infection in clonal C7-10 Aedes albopictus mosquito cells. Infected cells, designated C/wStr, expressed radiolabeled proteins that were enriched in cells grown in the absence of antibiotics that inhibit Wolbachia, relative to cultures grown in medium containing tetracycline and rifampicin. Using mass spectrometry, we verified that tryptic peptides from an upregulated 24 kDa band predominantly represented proteins encoded by the Wolbachia genome, including the outer surface protein, Wsp. We further showed that resistance of Wolbachia to streptomycin is associated with a K42R mutation in Wolbachia ribosomal protein S12, and that the pattern of amino acid substitutions in ribosomal protein S12 shows distinct differences in the closely related genera, Wolbachia and Rickettsia.
4295532|Our laboratory has shown previously that recombinant rainbow trout Ea4 (rtEa4)-peptide of pro-insulin-like growth factor-I (pro-IGF-I) exhibited antitumor activities against cancer cell lines derived from various human cancer tissues (Chen et al., 2002; Kuo and Chen, 2002). To confirm that rtEa4-peptide can exhibit the same spectrum of antitumor activities in fish tumor cells, we had developed permanent single-cell clones (RTH1B1A, RTH1B1D, RTH1B2A, and RTH1B2C) from a rainbow trout liver tumor induced by dibenzo[a,l]pyrene treatment. At 135 passages, the doubling time of these single-cell clones in
4294837|The objective of this work was to establish an in vitro multidimensional culture system for human ovarian surface epithelial (HOSE) cells as a model for ovarian carcinogenesis. The epithelial origin of cell outgrowth from cells obtained from the ovarian surface was confirmed by keratin staining. Two cultures from two different patients were established, HOSE-A and HOSE-B. Cultures were infected with a retrovirus expressing human papillomavirus genes E6 and E7 to extend their life span. HOSE cells were seeded onto collagen gels containing NIH3T3-J2 fibroblasts as feeder cells and grown to confluence submerged in growth medium. The collagen bed was then raised to the air-medium interface for 7 d (organotypic culture). Microscopically, fixed cultures revealed a single layer of flat cells growing on the collagen surface, reminiscent of HOSE cells in vivo. Infected HOSE-A and HOSE-B cells exhibited aberrant growth because they stratified. In addition, established ovarian cancer lines grown in this fashion stratified and showed malignant phenotypes. Thus, cells grown in organotypic culture resemble their in vivo counterparts, providing a basis for establishing a system to study growth, proliferation, differential gene expression, and perhaps malignant transformation of HOSE cells.
4295470|The purpose of this study was to characterize the activation of zidovudine (ZDV) and lamivudine (3TC) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) with and without hydroxyurea (HU) pretreatment. HUVEC were pretreated with HU or control media for 24 h and then incubated for an additional 3 h with ZDV or 3TC. Intracellular concentrations of parent drugs and the phosphorylated forms were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Pretreatment with HU resulted in more than a threefold increase in intracellular concentrations of total ZDV, with the major intracellular form being the monophosphate (>80%). The relative percentage of each ZDV form was similar between control and HU-treated cells. On the other hand, intracellular concentrations of total 3TC increased only slightly (14%) with HU pretreatment. Although the parent drug remained the major intracellular form of 3TC, there was nearly a 400% increase in the 3TC triphosphate after HU pretreatment. These data demonstrate that HU causes a large increase in the intracellular accumulation of total ZDV, whereas it increases total 3TC only slightly but improves its triphosphorylation. Given the increase in intracellular concentrations of ZDV monophosphate after HU pretreatment and that the monophosphate has no antiviral activity but is associated with toxicity, the use of HU is not a good strategy to improve ZDV activation in human endothelium. There is improved production of the active antiviral 3TC triphosphate with HU pretreatment. The combination may be beneficial in treating potential sanctuary sites such as endothelium.
4294289| FK506 has been used as the primary immunosuppressive agent administered after a variety of organ transplants, with less reported nephrotoxicity than that of cyclosporine. This study examined in vitro cytotoxicity of FK506 on normal human renal proximal tubule cells. Cytotoxicity was assessed by neutral red inclusion and trypan blue exclusion; morphology was assessed by light and transmission electron microscopy. Neutral red inclusion decreased to less than 10% of the control after 3 days exposure to 200 (g/ml FK506. Forty microgram per milliliter FK506 caused a decrease in neutral red inclusion to 61% of the control on Day 7, with recovery to 86% on Day 12. Similarly, trypan blue exclusion decreased to 66% of the control following 7 days exposure to 40 g/ml FK506, and confluency of the monolayer was reduced to 50% as evidenced by phase contrast microscopy. After a 12-day exposure, treated monolayers became more confluent. On ultrastructural examination, FK506-treated cells exhibited increased cytoplasmic vacuolation and lipid inclusion. These data suggest that FK506 is reversibly and mildly toxic to monolayers of human renal proximal tubule cells and are consistent with clinical reports of reversible nephrotoxicity. 
4294496|A nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect and identify mycoplasma contaminants in viral stocks. The results of the PCR assay proved to be a sensitive and accurate indicator of the true status of the stock tested. Those samples positive by agar culture or Hoechst stain were also positive by PCR. Those samples that were inconclusive by Hoechst stain (10.05%) could be clearly determined to be mycoplasma positive or negative by PCR. The PCR assay also detected those fastidious species of mycoplasma that gave false negative results by the direct culture method. In many respects the PCR-based mycoplasma detection method described is superior to the agar culture and Hoechst staining detection methods. In this study, the PCR assay detected substantially more mycoplasma-positive viral stocks than did the agar culture assay. Due to its speed, sensitivity, and reliability, the PCR assay is of particular value in monitoring the process of removing mycoplasma from contaminated stocks. Furthermore, the PCR amplification products can be analyzed by restriction analysis to rapidly identify the species of the mycoplasma contaminating the stock tested.
4295456| Canine mammary tumors (CMTs) have been proposed to be a good animal model for human breast cancer. To provide a basis for the tumorigenic study of CMTs, cell lines were established using a modified cell culture technique. The epithelial morphology and immunostaining with cytokeratin 18 confirmed the epithelial origin of the cells. In an investigation of possible mammary tumorigenesis-related factors, the expression of Wnt signaling-related proteins was detected in cell lines. Secreted frizzled-related protein 2 (SFRP2) was abundantly expressed in CMT cells but not in normal canine mammary gland (MG) cells. Secreted frizzled-related protein 2 was secreted into the culture medium and was associated with the extracellular matrix. In addition, increased expressions of -catenin and cyclin D1 were observed in cells overexpressing SFRP2. The marked differential expression of SFRP2 reveals that this protein may be a potential candidate marker for CMTs. The CMT cell line established in this study provides a useful tool and experimental model for understanding both the tumorigenesis of CMTs and the role of Wnt signaling in cancers. 
4294346|The ability of epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulinlike growth factor-1 (IGF-1), insulin, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), and aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA) to protect the human breast cancer cell line MDA-231 from death induced by the anticancer drug adriamycin was investigated. Cell death was induced in the MDA-231 cells either by a short-time exposure to a high dose of adriamycin (
4294875|Growth rate, morphology, and responsiveness to mitogenic stimuli and pharmacological treatments were evaluated in early and late cell passages derived from the same clone of the widely used MCF-7 human breast adenocarcinoma cell line. Our results indicate dissimilarities between early (E) and late (L) passages for some of the parameters analyzed. The cells that underwent many subcultivations grew faster than the others; both appeared homogeneous in size and shape. The E cells, subcultured for almost 1 yr, displayed higher sensitivity to the mitogenic action of both estradiol, according to the level of estrogen receptor, and insulin-like growth factor-I than did the L cells, kept in culture for more than 10 yr. Cell responsiveness to two drugs, a novel steroid antiestrogen and a polysulfonated distamycin A derivative, was more pronounced in the early cultures only at the longer time of exposure to the higher concentration of the estrogen antagonist. In addition, a drug-induced inhibition of insulin-like growth factor-I binding to its receptor was shown in both E and L cells, the latter being less sensitive than the former when exposed to the antiestrogen. Finally, MCF-7 E and L cells showed similar behavior when drug-induced apoptosis was tested.
4295652| Skeletal fibroblasts in vitro can acquire myofibroblast phenotypes by the development of biochemical and morphological features, mainly the expression of alpha-smooth-muscle actin (-SMA). Myogenic differentiation is a central event in skeletal muscle development, and has commonly been studied in vitro in the context of skeletal muscle development and regeneration. Controlling this process is a complex set of interactions between myoblasts and the extracellular matrix. Osteopontin (OPN) is an acidic, phosphorylated matrix protein that contains an Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) cell attachment sequence and has been identified as an adhesive and migratory substrate for several cell types. The aim of this study was to investigate osteopontin expression during the differentiation of skeletal fibroblasts into myofibroblasts and during myogenesis in a coculture model. Fibroblasts and myoblasts were obtained from skeletal muscle of 18-d-old Wistar strain rat fetuses by enzymatic dissociation. At 1 and 9 d, cocultures were immunolabeled, and the cells were also separately subjected to Western blotting to analyze OPN expression. Our data using confocal microscopy showed that myoblasts displayed a strong staining for OPN and that this labeling was maintained after myotube differentiation. Conversely, during fibroblast differentiation into myofibroblasts, we observed a significant increase in OPN expression. The results obtained by immunolabeling were confirmed by Western blotting. We suggest that OPN is important mainly during early stages of myogenesis, facilitating myoblast fusion and differentiation, and that the increased expression of OPN in myofibroblasts might be related to its effects as a key cytokine regulating tissue repair and inflammation. 
4294658|Bovine (BPAEC) and human (HPAEC) pulmonary artery endothelial cell monolayers were incubated with either ATP, ATP analogues, or UTP, followed by measurement of intracellular pH (pHi) and the rate of recovery from acidosis. ATP increased baseline pHi and the rate of acid recovery in BPAEC. This response was inhibited by the amiloride analogue, methyisobutylamiloride, demonstrating that activation of the
4295239|The objective of this study is to establish a reliable cell culture system for the long-term culture of rat urothelial cells (RUC), in which the cells multiply in vitro and form stratified polarized urothelium. Urothelial cells were harvested by the enzymatic digestion of the urothelium exposed by the eversion of resected rat bladders. Primary cultures were initiated in keratinocyte serum-free medium (KSFM) for selective proliferation of urothelial cells. Subsequently, the cells were propagated in a mixture of conditioned medium (CM) derived from Swiss 3T3 cell culture supernatant and KSFM (CM-KSFM). Mean population doubling time was
20869577|This study evaluated the effects of anti-lipid peroxidases when supplemented to the thawing and incubation media of frozen-thawed boar spermatozoa. Semen pellets were thawed and incubated in media with 1.0 mM -tocopherol or diethylenetriamine. After 1 h, the acrosome reaction was induced using calcium ionophore A23187, and acrosomes were evaluated using WellsAwa staining. The number of spermatozoa with fragmented DNA was evaluated using silver staining after single-cell gel electrophoresis. Membrane lipid peroxidation was measured by the end point generation of malondialdehyde. The diethylenetriamine-supplemented media had a higher (P<0.05) percentage of acrosome-reacted spermatozoa (84.44.1%) compared to the control (78.34.2%) and -tocopherol-supplemented (78.03.9%). The control had a higher (P<0.05) percentage of spermatozoa with fragmented DNA (59.34.3%) compared to the DETA (28.74.1%) and -tocopherol supplementation (28.03.8%). Spermatozoa supplemented with diethylenetriamine had higher amounts (P<0.05) of malondialdehyde generated (3.600.05 M/10 cells) compared to the -tocopherol supplementation (0.140.05 M/10 cells) and the control (0.120.05 M/10 cells). These results indicate that supplementing with either 1.0 mM diethylenetriamine or -tocopherol during semen thawing and incubation protects against DNA fragmentation, and diethylenetriamine increases the percent of spermatozoa capable of completing the acrosome reaction that could induce membrane lipid peroxidation.
4294293|Recent studies indicate that the neointima of injured rat arteries is composed of a subpopulation of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) distinct from medial smooth muscle cells. However, SMC diversity in normal adult aorta has remained elusive. This study characterizes two morphologically and functionally distinct SMC types isolated from different anatomic regions of the normal rat aorta. Rat aortic medial smooth muscle cells (MSMCs) were isolated from the media after removal of the intimai and adventitial cells. Rat aortic intimai smooth muscle cells (ISMCs) were isolated from the intimal aspect of everted rat aortas. The two cell types were characterized morphologically and immunohistochemically and were compared for their capacity to contract collagen gels in response to endothelin-1. MSMCs were spindle-shaped and grew in hills and valleys showing features previously described for vascular SMCs. Conversely, ISMCs displayed a polygonal and epithelioid shape, grew mainly as a monolayer, and had a higher proliferative rate. Both cell types expressed alpha-smooth muscle actin and were negative for Factor VIII-RAg. ISMCs produced large amounts of a laminin and type IV collagen-rich extracellular matrix which had a characteristic pericellular distribution. ISMCs, but not MSMCs, rapidly contracted collagen gels in response to endothelin-1. This study indicates that the normal rat aorta contains two types of SMCs located in anatomically distinct regions of the vessel wall. Because of their functional characteristics, the SMCs isolated from the intimai aspect of the aorta may play an important role in physiologic as well as pathologic conditions.
4295404|Clonal cell lines have been established from vaginae of prepubertal female p53
4294482|Cultured cells from the bovine endosalpinx were used to evaluate effects of
4294244| In the present study, we investigated the ability of epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and insulin to protect the human breast cancer cell line MDA-231 from death induced by the antitumor drug actinomycin D (ACT-D). ACT-D is an inhibitor of RNA and protein synthesis, and its cytotoxicity may result due to continuous depletion in some vital protein molecules. Cell death was induced in the MDA-231 cells by either continuous exposure to a low dose of ACT-D (0.2 g/ml), or by a short-time exposure to a high dose of ACT-D (2 g/ml) and further culturing in the absence of the drug. Cell death was evaluated by the trypan blue dye exclusion test, the release of lactic dehydrogenase into the culture medium, and the depletion in the cellular ATP content. EGF and IGF-1, each at an optimal concentration of 20 ng/ml, enhanced substantially survival of cells exposed either to a low or a high dose of ACT-D. The combination of EGF (10 ng/ml) and IGF-1 (10 ng/ml) had an additive survival effect, which proposes that each of the growth factors enhanced survival by a distinct pathway. Insulin up to 40 ng/ml had no effect on cell survival. Pretreatment of the cells for 1 to 5 h with EGF and IGF-1 protected cells from the cytotoxic effect of ACT-D. Exposure of the cells to 2 g/ml of ACT-D for 1 h resulted in a drastic inhibition in uridine incorporation and only in a slight inhibition in leucine incorporation. Further incubation in the absence of ACT-D resulted in a continuous decrease in uridine and in leucine incorporation, either in the absence or presence of the growth factors. However, EGF and IGF-1, but not insulin, attenuated significantly this continuous decrease. We assume that EGF and IGF-1 protect cell viability by a mechanism that maintains a critical level of some vital protein molecule above the critical level at which cells die. Our finding that EGF and IGF-1 induced resistance to ACT-D suggests that growth factors may be involved in the mechanism of drug resistance. 
20616585|Tissue microdissection is appropriate for separating pure cells from heterogeneous tissues. Recently, we have focused on whole genome DNA methylation patterns of lung squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and needed to obtain the appropriate counterpart cells of lung SCC. However, in some regions of human tissues, such as in bronchial epithelium, it is difficult to apply tissue microdissection as a means to isolate pure cells from a heterogenous mixture of cells. Accordingly, we developed the pop brush method to retrieve sufficient amounts of pure bronchial epithelium from gross lung specimens, and this method enables us to study epigenetic variations of lung SCC.
23353394|The objective of this work was to not only establish two fetal fibroblast cell lines from yak lung and ear tissue using a primary explant technique and cell cryogenic preservation technology but also check for their quality and biological characteristics. The cells showed typical morphologic characteristics of fibrous and long spindle appearance. Outgrowth of fibroblast-like cells from the lung and ear explants was around 2 and 3 d, and reaching 90% confluence level was in the ninth day and the thirteenth day, respectively. Biological analysis showed that the average viability of the lung fibroblast cells (ear fibroblast cells) was 97.5% (95.0%) before freezing and 91.0% (89.5%) after thawing. Analysis of the growth of the fifth passage culture revealed an "S"-shaped growth curve with the population doubling times of 30 h for lung fibroblast cell line and 35 h for ear fibroblast cell line. Karyotyping indicated the chromosome number of yak was 2n=60, comprising 29 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes (XY). All somatic chromosomes were telocentric autosomes except that the two sex chromosomes were submetacentric. Assays for bacteria, fungi, and mycoplasmas were negative. Immunocytochemical staining showed that the cells were positive for the expression of vimentin and negative for the expression of cytokeratin. In conclusion, two yak fetal fibroblast cell lines (YFLF and YFEF) from lung and ear explants are successfully established in culture. It will not only preserve the genetic resources of yaks at the cellular level but also provide valuable materials for somatic cell cloning and transgenic research.
20616559|Tissue microenvironments can regulate cell behavior by imposing physical restrictions on their geometry and size. An example of these phenomena is cardiac morphogenesis, where morphometric changes in the heart are concurrent with changes in the size, shape, and cytoskeleton of ventricular myocytes. In this study, we asked how myocytes adapt their size, shape, and intracellular architecture when spatially confined in vitro. To answer this question, we used microcontact printing to physically constrain neonatal rat ventricular myocytes on fibronectin islands in culture. The myocytes spread and assumed the shape of the islands and reorganized their cytoskeleton in response to the geometric cues in the extracellular matrix. Cytoskeletal architecture is variable, where myocytes cultured on rectangular islands of lower aspect ratios (length to width ratio) were observed to assemble a multiaxial myofibrillar arrangement; myocytes cultured on rectangles of aspect ratios approaching those observed in vivo had a uniaxial orientation of their myofibrils. Using confocal and atomic force microscopy, we made precise measurements of myocyte volume over a range of cell shapes with approximately equal surface areas. When myocytes are cultured on islands of variable shape but the same surface area, their size is conserved despite the changes in cytoskeletal architecture. Our data suggest that the internal cytoskeletal architecture of the cell is dependent on extracellular boundary conditions while overall cell size is not, suggesting a growth control mechanism independent of the cytoskeleton and cell geometry.
20616543|Efforts to determine a link between diabetes and atherosclerosis have involved examining the effect of high glucose levels on the adhesion and migration of circulating leukocytes, mostly monocytes and T lymphocytes. Leukocyte differentiation and proliferation within the subendothelial space can also be investigated by the use of a 3D in vitro human vascular tissue model. This model was used to study the effect of short-term, high glucose concentration on certain cell behavior associated with the early stages of atherosclerosis. Samples were exposed to either a 30- or 5.6-mM glucose concentration for 9 h to represent either hyperglycemic or normoglycemic conditions, respectively. There was a significant increase in vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 expression on the endothelial cells exposed to a 30-mM compared to a 5.6-mM glucose concentration. There was no significant difference in either intercellular adhesion molecule-1 or E-selectin expression on the endothelial cells exposed to a 30-mM compared to a 5.6-mM glucose concentration. After the endothelium was exposed to 30 mM glucose concentration, there was a 70% increase in the number of monocytes (CD14) migrating across the endothelium and a 28% increase in the number of these monocytes differentiating into macrophages, compared to cell migration and differentiation across the endothelium exposed to 5.6 mM glucose concentration. Also, for the endothelium exposed to 30 mM glucose concentration, there were nearly 2.5 times more T lymphocytes that migrated across the endothelium, along with significant cell proliferation, compared to cell migration across the endothelium exposed to 5.6 mM glucose concentration.
40928171|Studies with hepatic progenitor cells from nonhuman primates would allow better understanding of their human counterparts. In this study, rhesus monkey liver epithelial progenitor cells (mLEPCs) were derived from a small piece of newborn livers in chemical defined serumfree medium. Digested hepatic cells were treated in Ca-containing medium to form cell aggregates. Two types of cell aggregates were generated: elongated spindle cells and polygonal epithelial cells. Elongated spindle cells were expressed as vimentin and brachyury, and they were disappeared within 5 d in our cultures. The remaining type consisted of small polygonal epithelial cells that expressed cytokeratin 7 (CK7), CK8, CK18, nestin, CD49f, and Ecad, the markers of hepatic stem cells, but were negative for a-fetoprotein, albumin, and CK19. They can proliferate and be passaged, if on laminin or rat tail collagen gel, to initiate colonies. When cultured with dexamethasone and oncostatin M, the expression of mature hepatocyte markers, such as -1-antitrypsin, intracytoplasmic glycogen storage, indocyanine green uptake, and lipid droplet generation, were induced in differentiated cells. If transferred onto mouse embryonic fibroblasts feeders, they gave rise to CK19-positive cholangiocytes with formation of doughnut-like structure. Thus, mLEPCs with bipotency were derived from newborn monkey liver and may serve as a preclinical model for assessment of cell therapy in humans.
4294866| The study investigates the influence of different culture conditions on attachment, viability and functional status of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) liver cells in primary culture. Cells were isolated by a two-step collagenase perfusion and incubated in serum-free, chemically defined minimal essential medium (MEM), (a) as a monolayer on uncoated PRIMARIA dishes, (b) as a monolayer on culture dishes coated with calf collagen type 1, and (c) in coculture with the established fish cell lines RTH-149 or RTG-2. Cell attachment was assessed from DNA and protein concentrations per dish, viability was estimated from cellular lactate dehydrogenase release, and the metabolic status was investigated by measuring activities of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and biotransformation enzymes as well as the total cytochrome P450 contents. Seeding of hepatocytes on collagen-coated dishes did not alter cell attachment or detachment from the culture substrate, but had a small, but not significant effect on cell viability and metabolic parameters. Coculture of liver cells and RTG-2 cells reduced hepatocyte detachment from the culture substrate, and it was associated with a significant elevation of 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activities in the hepatic cells. Cytochrome P450 contents, however, were not altered. The coculture effect on liver cell physiology clearly depended on the type of cell line, because coculture with RTH-149 cells led to similar, but much weaker effects than obtained in cocultures with RTG-2 cells. Electron microscopical observations revealed the existence of gap junctions and possible exocytosis-like transport between cell lines and hepatocytes. The results point to the potential of coculture systems to improve physiological parameters of trout liver cells in primary culture. 
4294965|Difluoromethylidene bisphosphonate (
4294223|A strain of cerebral endothelial cells was established from isolated cortical microvessels of caprine brain. These cells, which are referred to as EC1 cells, can be routinely subcultured to 32 passages without the loss of differentiated morphologic and immunologic traits. The ability to routinely subculture EC1 cells is an important asset, given that isolated cerebral endothelial cells in mammals generally lose their differentiated traits after only 2 to 3 passages. EC1 cells were shown to contain Factor VIII-related antigen, which is a specific marker for cells of endothelial origin. EC 1 cells morphologically demonstrated a scarcity of pinocytotic vesicles on their apical surfaces, a lack of trans-cytoplasmic vesicles, and the ability to form in culture confluent monolayers with tight junctional complexes. Therefore, EC1 cells possess specific antigenic and ultrastructural features which classify them as being small vessel endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier type. Cytogenetic evaluation of EC1 cells demonstrated a normal female goat 60,XX karyotype and confirmed the apparent non-transformed nature of EC1 cells due to the lack of chromosome abnormalities or rearrangements. Using scanning electron microscopy, EC1 cells were also shown to form confluent monolayers on mixed nitrocellulose filters, a feature that will enable the development of an in vitro system to study trans-endothelial transport. Given that EC1 cells are readily subcultured and grow well on nitrocellulose filters, and that they resemble cerebral endothelium in vivo, it seems evident that EC1 cells can be used as a versatile model for the study of blood-brain barrier function, regulation, and pathology.
40205833|Angiotensin II is a major regulatory peptide for proximal tubule Na reabsorption acting through two distinct receptor subtypes: AT and AT. Physiological or pathological roles of AT have been difficult to unravel because angiotensin II can affect Na transport either directly via AT on luminal or peritubular plasma membranes of proximal tubule cells or indirectly via the renal vasculature. Furthermore, separate systemic and intratubular renin-angiotensin systems impart considerable complexity to angiotensin's regulation. A transport-competent, proximal tubule cell model that lacks AT is a potentially useful tool to assess cellular angiotensin II regulation. To this end, AT-receptordeficient mice were bred with an Immortomouse, which harbors the thermolabile immortalization gene SV40 large-T antigen (Tag), and AT-receptor-deficient [AT(-/-)], Tag heterozygous [Tag (+/-)] F offspring were selected for cell line generation. S1 proximal tubule segments were microdissected, and epithelial cell outgrowth was expanded in culture. Cells that formed confluent, electrically resistive monolayers were selected for cryopreservation, and one isolate was extensively characterized for conductance (2 mS/cm), short-circuit current (Isc; 0.2 A/cm), and proximal tubule-specific
4294100|Short-term culture of rainbow trout (Onchorhynchus mykiss) hepatocytes was used to examine the effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on microsomal CYP 1A1 protein content and 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity in vitro. Hepatocytes prepared by controlled collagenase digestion and plated at a density of
4294064|We describe several characteristics of a novel smooth muscle cell line, SHM (Syrian hamster myometrium) derived from a primary uterine leiomyosarcoma which was induced by chronic estrogen plus androgen treatment of a female Syrian (golden) hamster. To determine the usefulness of the SHM cell line as a model for understanding myometrial function and its regulation, we have examined the morphologic and immunocytochemical properties of these cells, and the ability of uterotonic agonists to activate transmembrane signaling via phosphoinositide hydrolysis. The SHM cells exhibited a spindle-shape, smooth musclelike morphology when subconfluent, and a more compact, stellate shape at confluence. Like primary myocytes, SHM cells expressed the intermediate filament desmin and the contractile protein alpha smooth muscle actin, but not the epithelial antigen cytokeratin. Norepinephrine and bradykinin, which stimulate contraction and inositol polyphosphate production in the uterus, also stimulated inositol polyphosphate production in SHM cells. The maximal phosphoinositide signaling responses were lower in SHM cells compared with primary hamster uterine myocytes. We conclude that the SHM cell line exhibits primary uterine myocyte characteristics, and may therefore be a useful system for examining the mechanisms through which myometrial functions are regulated.
40205828|Ceramide kinase (CerK) has important roles in leukocyte functions, including the role in degranulation of mast cells and the phagocytosis of polymorphonuclear leukocytes, so its expression levels should be strictly regulated. Here, we report that the mRNA expression and enzyme activity of CerK were decreased during macrophagelike cell differentiation of the leukemia cell line HL-60, yet neither was altered during granulocytic differentiation of the same cells. Our findings demonstrate that HL-60 cells are useful for studying CerK functions in leukocyte differentiation, and they also suggest that CerK might have an important role in such differentiation.
4295010|The secretory coil of the ovine apocrine gland is composed predominantly of two cell types, secretory cells lining the lumen and myoepithelial cells adjacent to the basement membrane. The glands synthesize a number of hormones and growth factors, but analysis of the functions of these molecules may be hampered by the mixing of apocrine and sebaceous secretions in the pilary canal. The purpose of this study was to isolate the glands and devise simple culture procedures to facilitate investigations of secretory cell function. The most successful approach involved microdissection of the secretory coils individually from skin biopsies and culture in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium. After 1-2 wk in medium, cell outgrowths were seen from explants. These consisted predominantly of populations of epithelial cells, many containing granules. Smaller granules were usually concentrated around the cell nuclei and accumulated lipophilic dyes. Large granules were unreactive. Western analysis showed that cells in culture synthesized nerve growth factor-like peptides, a feature consistent with one of the functions of the gland in vivo. When isolated secretory coils were explanted to culture dishes coated with matrigel, highly compact, multilayered masses of cells grew out. Subsequently, tubular structures formed. The observations suggest that some differentiated functions of gland cells were retained in vitro and that the procedures described provide a system for the study of apocrine secretions in isolation from those of other skin glands.
40205951|The human umbilical cord is a biological sample that can be easily obtained just after birth. A methodology was developed to perform cultures of human umbilical artery smooth muscle cells (HUASMC) expressing contractile proteins and functional ionic channels. To avoid fibroblast and endothelial cell contamination, we mechanically separated the tunica media, which only contains HUASMC and matrix proteins. To isolate the cells, collagenase V and elastase were used as hydrolyzing enzymes. The isolated cells were plated in collagen-coated dishes to obtain cultures of HUASMC. The cells obtained after different passages (1 to 6) exhibit the characteristic vascular smooth cell morphology and express smooth muscle alpha-2 actin, myosin heavy chain SMI, and alpha subunits of L-and T-type calcium channels (Cav 1.2, Cav 1.2, and Cav 3.2). Electrophysiology recordings for L-and T-type calcium channels were made, indicating that these channels are functional in the cultured cells. In conclusion, the procedure developed allows obtaining cultures of HUASMC expressing contractile proteins and also functional ionic channels. These cells could be used to study cellular and molecular aspects about the regulation of the vascular function.
40205774|Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) could inhibit the secretion of gastric acid. Meanwhile, it could also decrease the secretion of other digestive glands besides gastric parietal cell. As we know, PPIs have been widely used to treat acute pancreatitis, and it is effective in clinical practice. However, research showed the side effect of PPIs on acute pancreatitis. The direct effect of PPI on pancreatic secretion is still unknown. Our experiment investigated the direct effect of PPIs on pancreatic exocrine by isolated pancreatic acini. In our study, isolated pancreatic acini were prepared as previously described by Williams, and cerulein was added to stimulate its secretion. The amylase release in the suspension was determined after the administration of different concentrations of omeprazole and Sandostatin; and its activity was also observed in different time phases. In our in vitro study, all results suggest that omeprazole has no direct repression on amylase release from isolated pancreatic acini.
23481778|Optimization of the extracellular environment is very important for hepatocyte function in vitro. We expressed new chimeric proteins of the collagen-binding domain (CBD) with cell attachment site (CAS) of fibronectin to enhance hepatocyte function, and the CBD-CAS proteins were immobilized on collagen-coated plates. We hypothesized that the high density of CAS would increase activity of the integrin-dependent intracellular signaling pathway, thus inducing hepatocyte function. Expression of albumin in the human hepatocyte cell line HepG2 was assessed on CBD-CAS-immobilized dishes. The results indicated that the CBD-CAS-immobilized plates induced albumin expression. Immobilized CBD-CAS induced activation of focal adhesion kinase and integrin-ligand clustering on the cell membrane. These results suggest that immobilized CBD-CAS improves the function of HepG2 cells. This system could therefore be applied to drug metabolism assay in the development of new drugs.
4295516|The migratory responses of four human melanoma cell lines (A-2058, DEMEL, HTB-63, and HTB-72), using chemotaxis (CTX) and haptotaxis (HPTX) assays, were studied. The attractants were three extracellular matrix components (EMCs), fibronectin, laminin, and collagen type IV. The conditioned media (CM) of each cell line were used to study autocrine and paracrine responses. A screening and sensitive CTX assay was performed, using pertussis toxin (PTX)-treated A-2058 as responder cells; the other melanoma cells and normal cells were used as secretory cells. Autotaxin (ATX), a purified autocrine motility factor, was also used as a chemoattractant. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was used to detect the expression of ATX by all cell lines. The secretion of ATX was determined by Western blot. The invasive capacity of the cell lines was evaluated using Matrigel and ATX as attractant. Chemotaxis responses to EMCs varied. Except for the A-2058 cells, HPTX migration was low. Autocrine and paracrine responses also varied. The migration of PTX-treated A-2058 cells to ATX and to their own CM was abolished. All the melanoma cells expressed ATX, and except for the HTB-72 and normal cells, all secreted ATX. Matrigel was invaded by all the melanoma cell lines except the HTB-72 and normal cells. The migratory properties of human melanoma cells in vitro suggest that they could correlate to their metastatic potential in vivo.
4295565|We have examined the chicken TP53 tumor suppressor gene in v-src-transformed chicken tumor cells by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequencing. Initially, we have detected frequent deletions of variable length in both DNA-binding and oligomerization domains of the TP53 in late as well as early in vitro passages of the chicken tumor cell line PR9692. This tumor cell line shows an immortal phenotype and acquires a metastatic potential that is unique in our experimental model of v-src-induced tumors in congenic chickens. Deletions in TP53 were also detected in an early passage of parallel in vivo subculture of the original v-src-induced tumor. In this case, tumor cells underwent replicative senescence later in tissue culture. Our results suggest that extensive deletions are efficient mechanisms of TP53 inactivation, occurring as early events during the immortalization of v-src-transformed chicken cells. Tumor cells with altered TP53 might, however, still be susceptible to growth control mechanisms, leading to withdrawal from the mitotic cycle in the early stage of the tumor lifeline.
4294326|Retinoic acid (RA) has striking effects on vertebrate development and induces differentiation of several lines of cells including embryonal carcinoma F9 cells. It is generally accepted that the actions of RA are mediated by nuclear receptors for RA. However, we now provide evidence that F9 cells can differentiate in response to RA without trans-activation by nuclear receptors. Irreversible differentiation of F9 cells was induced by 18 h of exposure to RA with subsequent incubation in the absence of RA. This induction of differentiation was not blocked after inhibition of protein synthesis and mRNA synthesis during the 18-h treatment with RA, but the endogenous RA receptors failed to activate transcription from their target genes that contain the receptor-binding sequences. During the commitment to RA-induced differentiation, at least five sets of four phosphorylated proteins underwent changes in the absence of protein synthesis de novo. These results suggest that there is a novel pathway for the action of RA that is independent of nuclear receptor-mediated trans-activation.
4295564|The aim of this study was to establish a long-term culture system for rat colon epithelial cells. Colonic crypts were isolated by incubating a 4-cm-long rat colon segment cut longitudinally with an ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid [disodium salt]-containing buffer, taken up in conditioned medium from the normal rat kidney fibroblast cell line NRK (i.e., the supernatant of pure NRK cultures), directly plated on mitomycin C-treated NRK cells and subcultured with conditioned medium from NRK cells. Cells started to migrate out of the crypts shortly after plating them on NRK feeder layers. Some of the crypts fell apart during the isolation procedure, whereas the vast majority of them did it within 1 to 2 h after plating. The cells proliferated extremely slowly but continuously over a period of 4 mo and were epithelial because they expressed cytokeratin 19 and were stained by crystal violet at pH 2.8. In conclusion, the experimental system described in this study allows to maintain rat colon epithelial cells for up to 4 mo in culture and can be used to study the effects of a variety of tumor-modulating factors on growth and gene expression of normal colon epithelial cells in vitro.
4295352|In the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis the interplay of endothelial cells (ECs) and smooth muscle cells (SMCs) is disturbed. Oxidatively modified low-density lipoproteins (oxLDLs), important stimulators of atherosclerotic plaque formation in vessels, modify the growth response of both cell types. To compare growth responses of ECs and SMCs of the same vessel with oxLDLs, we developed a method to isolate both cell types from the vessel walls of umbilical cords by enzymatic digestion. The method further allowed the simultaneous isolation of venous and arterial cells from a single umbilical cord. In culture, venous ECs showed an elongated appearance compared with arterial ECs, whereas SMCs of artery and vein did not look different. Smooth muscle cells of both vessel types responded to oxLDLs (
4294888|Rotating-wall vessels allow for the growth of cells in simulated microgravity. Lymphoblastoid cells cultured in rotating-wall vessels exhibited significant differences in the expression of both early and late Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) antigens. Viral protein expression (as measured by indirect immunofluorescence) was significantly suppressed in cells cultured in simulated microgravity. A significantly greater percentage of P3HR-1 cells and Daudi cells were positive for the expression of BamH1-Z-DNA fragment of Epstein-Barr replication activator (ZEBRA), early antigen restricted (EA-R), and viral capsid antigen (VCA) in cells cultured in static tissue culture flasks as compared to cells cultured in rotating-wall vessels. We observed a 7, 11, and 25-fold reduction, respectively, for EA-R, VCA, and ZEBRA protein in P3HR-1 cells cultured in simulated microgravity. Additionally, suspension cultures of P3HR-1 cells exhibited significantly greater ZEBRA antigen expression than cells cultured in rotating-wall vessels. As an independent confirmation of the reduction in ZEBRA-protein production in simulated microgravity in P3HR-1 cells, ZEBRA-mRNA was quantitated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. We observed between a 4 to 10-fold reduction in ZEBRA-mRNA in cells cultured in simulated microgravity as compared to cells cultured at 1 x g in tissue culture flasks. Rotating-wall vessels, by virtue of providing a simple culture environment triggering marked differences in viral activation, provide a model whereby both host and viral factors involved in regulating the maintenance of EBV latency can be examined.
20869575|Cell growth in primary cell culture of the brine shrimp (Artemia sinica) embryo at 12 and 20 h after rehydration at 25C was examined comparatively in modified Leibovitz-15 medium. The cells from A. sinica embryo at 12 h after rehydration were dispersed, and the cells disseminated but did not attach to the surface of wells and multiply at 2 d of culture, and 12 d later, the cells were degenerated and dead. The best growth of the brine shrimp cells was obtained from the prenauplii of A. sinica at 20 h after dormant embryo rehydration. The fibroblast-like cells attached to the well surface and multiplied at 15 d after the primary culture was set up. Confluent monolayer was formed at 50 d. The prenauplii cells have been subcultured up to passage 3 and maintained for approximately 200 d. The reasons for cell growth potential at the different developmental stages of Artemia embryo were discussed.
4294964|In the presence of 3-amino-L-tyrosine (3-AT), abundant brown pigment forms in human HL-60 cells, but not in a variety of other cell lines, which are reported to be lower in mean myeloperoxidase (MPO) content than HL-60. Cells were assessed for peroxidase activity with an ABTS-based colorimetric assay and compared to values obtained with known amounts of human myeloperoxidase. HL-60 cells were estimated to contain the equivalent of
4294597|Agents that increase intracellular cAMP (cAMP elevating agents) and
40205853|Cancer chemotherapy treatment often leads to hair loss, which may be prevented by cooling the scalp during drug administration. The current hypothesis for the hair preservative effect of scalp cooling is that cooling of the scalp skin reduces blood flow (perfusion) and chemical reaction rates. Reduced perfusion leads to less drugs available for uptake, whereas the reduced temperature decreases uptake of and damage by chemotherapy. Altogether, less damage is exerted to the hair cells, and the hair is preserved. However, the two mechanisms in the hypothesis have not been quantified yet. To quantify the effect of reduced drug damage caused by falling temperatures, we investigated the effect of local drug concentration and local tissue temperature on hair cell damage using in vitro experiments on keratinocytes. Cells were exposed for 4 h to a wide range of doxorubicin concentrations. During exposure, cells were kept at different temperatures. Cell viability was determined after 3 d using a viability test. Control samples were used to establish a concentrationviability curve. Results show that cell survival is significantly higher in cooled cells (T>22 C) than in non-cooled cells (r=37 C), but no significant differences are visible between T=10 C and T=22 C. Based on this result and previous work, we can conclude that there is an optimal temperature in scalp cooling. Further cooling will only result in unnecessary discomfort for the patient and should therefore be avoided.
40205910|Galanin is a 29-amino-acid neuropeptide expressed in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons which is thought to play a role in modulation of nociception in neuropathic states. Activation of galanin receptor 2 (GalR2) plays a pronociceptive role and enhances capsaicin-induced nociception in the periphery. GalR2 and vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) are co-expressed in DRG neurons. Capsaicin evokes acute pain via activation of VR1 expressed in primary sensory neurons. It is not known to what extent galanin and its receptor GalR2 expression is regulated by capsaicin in DRG neurons. Effects of acute (4 h) or chronic (4 d) treatment with capsaicin at different concentrations (0.01, 0.1, 1 mol/L) on galanin and GalR2 expression in primary cultured DRG neurons were investigated in the present study. Our results showed that acute exposure of high concentration capsaicin (1 mol/L) increased galanin expression, whereas chronic exposure of low concentration capsaicin (0.01, 0.1 mol/L) promoted galanin expression. Only chronic exposure of 0.1 mol/L concentration capsaicin could elevate GalR2 expression, whereas capsaicin did not have this effect at any other conditions in this experiment. These results indicated that certain concentrations or exposure time of capsaicin stimulation may be relevant to upregulation of galanin and its receptor GalR2 expression in DRG cultures suggesting a response to peripheral neuronal stimulation. And also, capsaicin-induced GalR2 expression may be also modulated by capsaicininduced galanin expression. The possible significance of the neurotransmission of nociceptive information involved in galanin or GalR2 expression caused by capsaicin is still to be clarified.
4295387|Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) derived from bone marrow have the capacity to differentiate along a number of connective tissue pathways and are an attractive source of chondrocyte precursor cells. When these cells are cultured in a three-dimensional format in the presence of transforming growth factor-, they undergo characteristic morphological changes concurrent with deposition of cartilaginous extracellular matrix (ECM). In this study, factors influencing hMSC chondrogenesis were investigated using an alginate layer culture system. Application of this system resulted in a more homogeneous and rapid synthesis of cartilaginous ECM than did micromass cultures and presented a more functional format than did alginate bead cultures. Differentiation was found to be dependent on initial cell seeding density and was interrelated to cellular proliferation. Maximal glycosaminoglycan (GAG) synthesis defined an optimal hMSC seeding density for chondrogenesis at
4295049|In order to isolate, characterize, and establish culture cell lines with different diagnostic and prognostic significance, derived from multiclonal neoplasms, a ductal infiltrating mammary tumor was induced in rats by 7,12-dimethyl-benz[a]anthracene. Clones with different DNA/protein content, being the DI of 1.16, 1.30, and 1.60, respectively, were observed in the primary tumor. Biparametric flow cytometry suggested that the clone at 1.30 is made up of two subpopulations with different protein and slightly different DNA contents. The culture, after a few passages, exhibited the presence of aneuploid cells and the absence of diploid components, demonstrating that only tumor cells survived. The limiting dilution method gave rise to four lines with DI of 1.16, 1.25, 1.30, and 1.50; a mean chromosome number of 45, 46, 47, and 88, respectively; and different morphological and ultrastructural features. These characteristics were stable during the experimental procedure, that is, for about 20 passages. Conversely, the detection of cytoskeletal proteins indicated that the tumor epithelial cells underwent early dedifferentiation into sarcoma-like cells showing markers of stromal cell type and thus exhibiting phenotypic instability in vitro, a feature reported in many advanced human breast cancers in vivo. In conclusion, this cellular model represents the in vivo situation and appears suitable for in vitro studies of tumor cell characteristics and might be used to predict clinical behavior.
4294850| We describe a method for increasing the hydrophilicity of materials formed from biodegradable polymers and introducing chemical functional groups on their surfaces. Poly(L-lactic acid) was blended with poly(-CBZ-L-lysine) at an 80:20 ratio. Films of the mixture were prepared and foams were made by solvent casting and salt leaching. Amino groups on the surface of the polymer mixture were deprotected by acid hydrolysis. As an example of the applicability of the technique for attachment of biomolecules, we covalently linked collagen to the deprotected amino groups, creating a surface capable of high density growth of a differentiated cell type (bovine adrenocortical cells). The method should be generally useful for surface modification of biodegradable polymer materials used in tissue engineering. 
4295131| We studied the roles of -catenin in somitogenesis using immunostaining and antisense experiments in rat embryos. High levels of -catenin appeared transiently in the developing rat somites. Initially, -catenin accumulation was observed in the core cells of presomitic cell aggregates and then in the lumen of epithelial vesicles. Subsequently, it was confined to the dermomyotomes and their lumen and then the myotomes. High levels of cyclin D1 were observed in the core cells, in the lumen of epithelial vesicles, in myotomes, and in mesenchymal sclerotomes. When embryos were cultured in medium supplemented with -catenin antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN), the accumulation of -catenin, but not of cyclin Dl, in the nascent somites and dermomyotomes was suppressed, while the number of somites was the same as that observed in control embryos. The number of myosin-positive somites and the amount of myosin per somite in embryos treated with the antisense ODN were lower than those in controls. These results suggested that -catenin promotes development of myotomal cells during somitogenesis. The function of -catenin in the development of myotomes may not be correlated to cyclin Dl. 
4294265|To facilitate the study of regulators of differentiation and proliferation of small intestinal epithelium in the suckling rat we have developed a serum-free organ culture system and used it to examine epithelial responsiveness to various regulatory hormones. These hormones included the insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) whose action can be blocked by binding proteins in serum. Jejunal explants from 5-day-old suckling rats maintained better brush border enzyme activity and better histology when cultured under hyperbaric conditions for 24 h in serum-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium/F12 medium than in RPMI 1640 plus 10% fetal bovine serum. Tissue responsiveness to various regulatory hormones was then tested in the serum-free medium. Insulin had no significant effect on morphology, proliferation rate, or enzyme activity in 5-day explants after 24 h in culture. However, insulin did increase lactase activity and induce the early appearance of sucrase in 10- and 12-day explants after 48 h in culture. Dexamethasone increased specific activities of alkaline phosphatase (30%, P < 0.001) and lactase (15%, P < 0.001), and reduced shedding of alkaline phosphatase into the medium (P < 0.001), in explants of 5-day-old rats cultured over 24 h. Dexamethasone combined with insulin had no obvious effect on the rate of protein or DNA synthesis but did increase villus height (P = 0.04) and crypt depth (P = 0.001) and acted synergistically to further increase lactase activity above levels obtained by either alone. IGF-I and IGF-II, des-(l-3)IGF-I, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and growth hormone (GH) had no effect on morphology or biochemical activity of explants after 24 or 48 h culture. In conclusion, histology, enzyme activity, protein, and DNA synthesis of suckling rat jejunal explants were equivalent or better in serum-free than in serum-containing organ culture systems. Furthermore, biological responsiveness was demonstrated by dexamethasone and insulin altering the explants morphologically or biochemically. None of the IGFs or GH had any biological effects, raising doubts about their direct biological action on the developing intestinal epithelium.
40663819|We report here the derivation of two new human embryonic stem cell lines, Man-1 and Man-2, and their filli characterization as novel pluripotent stem cell lines. Man-1 was derived from an embryo surplus to requirement from routine IVF, while Man-2 was obtained from an oocyte classified as failed to fertilise and subsequently chemically activated. We report the characterisation of pluripotency and the differentiation potential of these lines. Work is in progress to establish novel methods of stem cell derivation and culture, which will avoid the use of xenobiotics and be relevant to clinical production of human embryonic stem cell lines. Both newly derived human embryonic stem cell lines will be available for the research community from the UK Stem Cell Bank (http://www.ukstemcellbank.org.uk).
4294559|Previously, we have shown that IGF-1, the phorbol ester 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and aurintricaboxylic acid (ATA) protected MCF-7 cells against death induced by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (GHX). We proposed that phosphorylation of a putative cellular protein(s) may be involved in this survival mechanism. In the present study we investigated the ability of several agents to induce phosphorylation of cellular proteins and correlated this ability to their survival effect. We found that TPA, ATA, and IGF-1 increased the degree of phosphorylation of a 27-kDa protein in a dose- and time-dependent manner in CHX-treated MCF-7 cells. The ED
4294067|Factors regulating the proliferation of normal, preneoplastic, and neoplastic rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cells were investigated to identify changes taking place during the progression of RTE cells to neoplasia. Normal RTE cells exhibit clonal proliferation in a serum-free medium containing pituitary extract, serum albumin, cholera toxin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, and insulin. All combinations of these six factors were examined for their abilities to support clonal proliferation of normal, preneoplastic, and neoplastic RTE cells. In general, preneoplastic RTE cells required fewer factors for proliferation than normal RTE cells, and neoplastic cells required fewer factors than preneoplastic cells. A common pattern of reductions has been identified in the growth factors required for the clonal proliferation of preneoplastic vs. normal RTE cells and for neoplastic vs. preneoplastic and normal RTE cells. Normal RTE cells exhibit clonal proliferation in a serum-free medium supplemented with a minimum of six factors: bovine serum albumin, bovine pituitary extract, cholera toxin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, and insulin. Preneoplastic RTE cells exhibit clonal proliferation in a serum-free medium supplemented with four factors: bovine serum albumin, bovine pituitary extract, hydrocortisone, and insulin. Finally, neoplastic RTE cells exhibit clonal proliferation in a serum-free medium supplemented with two factors: bovine serum albumin and bovine pituitary extract. These results suggest that the progression of RTE cells to neoplasia is associated with a series of changes in regulatory pathways that control cell proliferation.
20869568|Neuroblastoma, the most common and deadly solid pediatric tumor, features genetic and biologic heterogeneity that defies simple risk assessments, drives diverse clinical behavior, and demands more extensive characterization. This research served to investigate the utility of a microgravity assayrotary bioreactor cultureto evaluate and characterize the cell-specific, in vitro behavior of neuroblastoma cell lines: aggregation kinetics of single cells and the morphology of the formed structures, called organoids. Specifically, we examined the effect of amplification of the oncogene MYCN, a genetic factor that is strongly associated with poor clinical outcome. Three human neuroblastoma cell lines with varied MYCN expression (CHP-212 (unamplified), SK-N-AS (unamplified), IMR-32 (amplified)) were cultured in the microgravity rotary bioreactor. Simple aggregation kinetics were determined by periodically performing counts of non-aggregated single cells in the media. Organoids were harvested, stained with hematoxylin and eosin, and evaluated microscopically in terms of size and shape. The MYCN-amplified cell line (IMR32) aggregated much more rapidly than the unamplified cell lines, as indicated by a significantly lower area under its aggregation curve (single non-aggregated cells vs. time): IMR32=4.3, CHP-212 =12.4, SK-N-AS=9.8 (adhesion index 10). Further, the organoid morphology of the MYCN-amplified cell line was noticeably different compared to the unamplified lines. The CHP-212 and SK-N-AS cells formed spherical structures with average cross-sectional area 0.213 and 0.138 mm, respectively, and featured an outer viable zone of cells (average length of 0.175, 0.129 mm, respectively; the "diffusion distance"), surrounding an inner necrotic core. In contrast, the MYCN-amplified cell line formed a large single mass of cells but had a similar diffusion distance (0.175 mm). This microgravity assay provides a rapid, reproducible assessment of in vitro behavior of neuroblastoma, and the measured parameters, aggregation kinetics and organoid size and shape correlated with malignant potential in terms of MYCN amplification. This assay allows for the examination of cell-specific biologic and genetic factors that should provide valuable insight into the clinical behavior of neuroblastoma.
4295297|A trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) epidermal skin primary explant system was evaluated over 8 d by light and electron microscopy. Three distinct regions of the explant outgrowth were identified on the basis of cell composition. The area immediately adjacent to the founder tissue contained mainly small migrating cells and mucous cells. Of the former, about 20% were mitotic and 6% apoptotic. The middle area was characterized by differentiated pavement cells and mucous cells, with fewer small migrating cells. Proliferation was approximately 30% and apoptosis 5%. Over time, total cell numbers halved as more pavement cells differentiated. The growing front contained many mucous and small migrating cells initially, with few pavement cells. About 50% of the cells were in the proliferative phase, and 5% were apoptotic. Later, there were fewer migrating and mucous cells, with a higher number of pavement cells. About 9% of the cells were apoptotic, and 70% of the cells were proliferating. As in vivo, pavement cells had apical microridges, although they were vacuolated and contained phagocytosed apoptotic bodies. The data and observations are based on the numbers of cell cultures prepared from separate trout giving the sample size n = 7. As this culture system is reproducible and closely approximates the epidermis of trout, it is a powerful tool to study the effects of pollutants, parasites, and endocrine factors on fish skin, eliminating whole-animal factors and reducing the number of experimental animals required.
40205946|Gills are unique structures involved in respiration and osmoregulation in piscinids as well as in many aquatic invertebrates. The availability of the trout-derived gill cell line, RTgill-W1, is beginning to make impacts in fish health and toxicology. These cells are available from the American Type Culture Collection as ATCC CRL 2523. The cells have an epithelioid morphology and form tight monolayer sheets that can be used for testing epithelial resistance. The cells can be grown in regular tissue culture surfaces or in transwell membranes in direct contact with water on their apical surfaces. The ability of RTgill-W1 to withstand hypoand hyper-osmotic conditions and their optimal growth capacity at room temperature, make these cells ideal sentinel models for in vitro aquatic toxicology as well as model systems to study fish gill function and gill diseases. RTgill-W1 support growth of paramyxoviruses and orthomyxoviruses like salmon anemia virus. RTgill-W1 also support growth of Neoparamoeba pemaquidensis, the causative agent of amoebic gill disease. The cells have been used to understand mechanisms of toxicity, ranking the potencies of toxicants, and evaluating the toxicity of environmental samples. These cells are also valuable for high throughput toxicogenomic and toxicoproteomic studies which are easier to achieve with cell lines than with whole organisms. RTgill-W1 cell line could become a valuable complement to whole animal studies and in some cases as gill replacements in aquatic toxicology.
20172204|Laminin synthesis and deposition are concomitant with the development of a basal lamina between the human epidermis and the underlying dermis. One of the challenges in tissue engineering of human epidermal models is to develop substrates and conditions that encourage the development of a basement membrane. The purpose of this study was to determine if actin filaments and/or microtubules are involved in the synthesis/secretion of laminin by normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEK) in vitro. NHEK synthesize and secrete laminin subunits B1, B2, and M but little, if any, of laminin subunit A. Data indicate that disruption of microfilaments by the destabilizing agent, cytochalasin D, had no apparent effect on the relative synthesis rates of most cytosolic proteins as revealed by one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gel electrophoresis. This drug, however, increased laminin B2 synthesis several fold over untreated controls. This enhanced synthetic rate was independent of the type of collagen matrix on which the NHEK were grown. Similar increases in synthesis of the M and B1 laminin chains were not observed. To determine if this increase in synthesis lead to increases in laminin B2 secretion, laminin B2 was immunoprecipitated from both the apical and basal domains of NHEK cells grown on microporous membranes. While more laminin B1, B2, and M were secreted basally than apically, an observation consistent with laminin's role in basal lamina formation, cytochalasin D had no apparent effect on either basal or apical laminin B2 secretion. Experiments with the microtubule destabilizer, nocodazole, showed no similar effects on laminin synthesis and/or secretion. We conclude that (a) disruption of the actin network in NHEK selectively increases the synthesis of laminin B2, (b) the secretion of laminin B2 from NHEK cells is not governed by either the microfilamentous cytoskeleton or the amount of laminin synthesized by NHEK, and (c) disruption of the microtubular network does not alter laminin synthesis or secretion.
4294196|The human hepatoblastoma cell line, HepG2, exhibits an array of stable properties in culture that have made it a popular cell culture model for studies on regulation of liver-specific gene expression and properties of hepatoma cells. In contrast to other hepatoma cell lines, HepG2 cells overexpress a characteristic detergent-extractable, wheat germ lectinbinding protein with apparent molecular mass of 130 kDa. Using an antibody to screen a phage expression library of HepG2 complementary DNA (cDNA), we identified and cloned a 4734 base pair cDNA which codes for a 130-kDa leucine-rich protein (lrp130) when expressed in transfected cells. The deduced sequence of lrp130 exhibits sequences weakly homologous to the consensus sequence for the ATP binding site in ATP-dependent kinases and the protein kinase C phosphorylation site of the epidermal growth factor receptor. Consistent with the higher levels of expression of lrp130 antigen, Northern hybridization analysis indicated that HepG2 cells express high levels of the major 4.8 kilobase lrp130 mRNA relative to other hepatoma cells. Although currently of unknown function, lrpl30 may be of utility as a marker for liver cell lineages represented by the HepG2 cell line.
4295067| Human gastric epithelial cells were isolated from samples of human gastric lining and immortalized with simian virus 40 (SV40) to generate the stable human gastric epithelial cell line "JOK-1." These cells express conventional epithelial markers (vimentin, cytokeratin-18, occludin, N- and E-cadherins, -catenin, ZO-1, ZO-2, mucin, epithelial specific antigen) as well as SV40 large T-antigen. These cells rapidly externalized E-cadherin in response to acidic medium, and exhibited epithelial-like barrier properties that are also regulated by media pH. In contrast, the kidney epithelial cell line "MDCK" also expresses several epithelial markers (vimentin, cytokeratin-18, occludin, N- and E-cadherin, -catenin, ZO-1, ZO-2, epithelial specific antigen), but does not express mucin, or large T-antigen. However, MDCK rapidly internalize their E-cadherin from the cell surface and increase the solute flux in an acidic medium. These data suggest that the JOK-1 cell line is a potentially useful cell line for developing models of gastric epithelial function, development, and disease. 
41511611|The E-Screen assay was used to evaluate the estrogenicity of sugar beet by-products obtained from a dairy farm experiencing low success rates of embryo transfer. The beet tailings had ~3-fold the estradiol equivalents of the pelleted beet pulp (3.9 and 1.2 g estradiol equivalents or EEq/kg dry matter, respectively). Whole sugar beets, sugar beet pellets, and shreds from several Midwest US locations were also evaluated by E-Screen. All pellets examined were found to have some estrogenic activity (range -0.1-2.0 g EEq/kg DM) with a mean of 0.46 g/kg dry matter and median of 0.28 g/kg dry matter. Relative EEq ranked as follows: pellets> shreds> most unprocessed roots. Using recommended feeding levels and conservative absorption estimates (10%), the estrogenic activity in the original samples could result in blood estradiol equivalents those found at estrus (10 pg/mL, cows). Chemical analyses revealed no known phytoestrogens, but the estrogenic mycotoxin, zearalenone, was found in 15 of 21 samples. Of significance to those using the E-Screen are our findings that contradict previous reports: -sitosterol has no proliferative effect and genistein's glucuronidated formgenistinis equal to genistein in proliferative effect. The latter is the result of deconjugation of genistin to genistein in the presence of fetal bovine serum (determined by LC MSMS). These data show the usefulness and caveats of the E-Screen in evaluation of feedstuffs, and indicate a potential for sugar beet byproducts to contain zearalenone at concentrations that may impact reproduction.
40205829|Primary Sertoli cell cultures have been established from several animals including the sheep and rhesus monkey; however, not for the domestic dog, Canis familiaris. Sertoli cells are the only readily accessible cell type in the body which expresses all six type IV collagens. These collagens play key roles in tissue structure, basement membrane formation, and filtration. The study of these genes is necessary to determine their exact roles and regulation in the aforementioned functions and to investigate diseases associated with mutations in these genes. For such studies, a cell culture system is a requisite tool. Therefore, Sertoli cells were targeted, and a culture was established from cells isolated from canine testes. Cultures maintained consistent morphology and steady growth for up to seven passages. Cultured cells were identified as Sertoli cells through positive Western blot results for SOX9 and Clusterin B proteins and transcript sequence verification of SOX9 as well as the presence of type IV collagen transcripts. Primary cultures of canine Sertoli cells will provide a useful tool for study of the function and regulation of collagen genes and will permit new research pertaining to canine health while also serving as a model for the study of human diseases.
4295478|The exact mechanisms of fescue toxicity in animals have yet to be established, but it has been associated with an inability to thrive. Ergovaline is the major ergopeptine alkaloid associated with fungal infections of tall fescue. Gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity of ergovaline (
4294047| Cell rounding is generally regarded as a cytoskeletal change exemplified by the mitotic state of monolayer cell cultures in which mitosis-specific phosphorylation was recently cited as the molecular mechanism. Mechanistically, there appears a convergence with earlier suggestions of tyrosyl phosphorylation of cytoskeletal elements in growth-factor-induced rounding inasmuch as protein tyrosine kinase plays a major regulatory role in cell cycle progression. On the other hand, despite the permissive association between cell activation and intracellular alkalinization, inducing rounding via pH upshifts in the presence of even high concentrations (135 g/ml) of a tyrosine specific protein kinase inhibitor, genistein, did not suppress the rounding response, although a distinct difference in phosphotyrosine level was demonstrated by monoclonal antiphosphotyrosine antibodies. 
40205772|We have constructed an in vitro arterial wall model by coculturing bovine arterial endothelial cells (ECs) and smooth muscle cells (SMCs). When ECs were seeded directly over SMCs and cocultured in an ordinary culture medium, ECs grew sparsely and did not form a confluent monolayer. Addition of ascorbic acid to the culture medium at concentrations greater than 50 g/ml increased the production of type IV collagen by the SMCs, and ECs formed a confluent monolayer covering the entire surface of SMCs. Histological studies showed that the thickness of the cell layer composed of ECs and SMCs increased with increasing duration of coculture. This arterial wall model, prepared by our method, may serve as a simple and good in vitro model to study the effects of factors such as biological chemicals and shear stress on cell proliferation and other physiological functions of arterial walls.
20869593|A significant finding with aging humans (and aging animal models) is that blood vessels lose their ability to respond to beta-adrenergic receptor stimuli. Therefore, they produce less cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and have decreased vasorelaxation with advancing age. This change likely contributes to hypertension, insufficient blood flow, and atherosclerosis. Our goal was to develop a vascular smooth muscle cell culture model that replicates the molecular and biochemical changes observed in blood vessels with advancing age. A clonal selection strategy was used to produce cell lines from 2-, 6-, 12-, and 24-month-old male Fischer 344 rat aortae. Cultures were validated as smooth muscle cells with immunocytochemistry positive for -actin and negative for von Willebrand factor VIII. Positive staining for G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 indicated presence of this adrenergic receptor regulator. A total of n=5 clones from n=7 animals for each age group were initially analyzed for cAMP accumulation under three conditions: basal, isoproterenol stimulated, and forskolin stimulated. Results found that at passage 3, there was a significant reduction in cAMP accumulation to isoproterenol. However, this reduction disappeared by passage 6. Secondary analysis segregated clones into phenotypic age groups independent of donor animal age. Segregation identified n=3 clones per group. At passage 3, the age-related change in the beta-adrenergic change was magnified. However, even with segregation, the adrenergic response was lost by passage 6. Our results show that early passaged clonal vascular smooth muscle cell cultures maintain their aging, adrenergic phenotype. Two separate strategies to identify age-representative phenotypes into later passage were unsuccessful.
4294184|The differentiation of tracheal epithelial cells in primary culture was investigated according to the nature of the extracellular matrix used. Cultures obtained by the explant technique were realized on a type I collagen substratum either as a thin, dried coating or as a thick, hydrated gel supplemented with culture medium and serum. These two types of substratum induced distinct cell morphology and cytokeratin expression in the explant derived cells. Where cells are less proliferating (from Day 7 to 10 of culture), differentiation was evaluated by morphologic ultrastructural observations, immunocytochemical detection of cytokeratins, and determination of cytokeratin pattern by biochemical analysis. The epithelium obtained on gel was multilayered, with small, round basal cells under large, flattened upper cells. The determination of the keratin pattern expressed by cells grown on gel revealed an expression of keratin 13, already considered as a specific marker of squamous metaplasia, that diminished with retinoic acid treatment. Present results demonstrated by confocal microscopy that K13-positive cells were large upper cells with a dense keratin network, whereas lower cells were positively stained with a specific monoclonal antibody to basal cells (KB37). Moreover, keratin neosynthesis analysis pointed out a higher expression of K6, a marker of hyperproliferation, on gel than on coating. All these data suggest a differentiation of rabbit tracheal epithelial cells grown on gel toward squamous metaplasia. By contrast, the epithelium observed on coating is nearly a monolayer of very large and spread out cells. No K13-positive cells were observed, but an increase in the synthesis of simple epithelium marker (K18) was detected. These two substrata, similar in composition and different in structure, induce separate differentiation and appear as good tools to explore the mechanisms of differentiation of epithelial tracheal cells.
4295547|Biochemical indicators and in vitro models, if they mimic in vivo responses, offer potentially sensitive tools for inclusion in toxicity assessment programs. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the HepG2 cell line would mimic known in vivo or in vitro (or both) responses of mammalian systems when confronted with cadmium (Cd
4294774|In the mammary gland, mesenchymal-epithelial interactions are of paramount importance during normal and tumoral developments. We have studied the paracrine growth regulation of a variety of breast epithelial cells in coculture with normal or pathological breast fibroblasts. Two models of coculture were used in which the two cell types were seeded and grown, either together in microchamber slides or separated by a microporous membrane. Under these two conditions, all fibroblasts were shown to stimulate the proliferation of the hormono-responsive breast carcinoma MCF-7 cell line, suggesting that cell contacts were not indispensable for the paracrine stimulation of MCF-7 cell growth by fibroblasts. Moreover, in the Transwell coculture system, the proliferation of a variety of other breast carcinoma cells (MDA-MB231, T47D, and BT-20) was also stimulated by fibroblasts. However, the amplitude of the proliferative response seemed to be dependent on the carcinoma cell line considered. Moreover, the proliferative response of normal mammary epithelial cells to the presence of fibroblasts was shown to be significantly higher than the tumor cell response. The nature of the tissue of fibroblast origin, normal or pathological, did not influence the growth response of the epithelial cells. In this study, we thus demonstrate that fibroblasts are able to stimulate the proliferation of normal and carcinoma cells through paracrine exchange mechanisms. We also conclude that the target epithelial cell phenotype will essentially determine the extent of the proliferative response.
40205872|Mycoplasma contamination in cell culture is a serious setback to cell culturists across the world with a very high rate of reported occurrence particularly because of difficult early detection. Out of a variety of detection methods known, the double-step nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based detection of mycoplasma in cell culture has been critically viewed upon because of chances of producing reliable results. A nested PCR technique, described to detect a large range of cell-culture-contaminating mycoplasma species, with greater sensitivity to detect as low a contamination as a few organisms, was compared with the results from two cytological techniques employed in tandem. These are DNA staining using Hoechst, the gold standard, and an immunofluorescent assay using a highly specific monoclonal antibody. The study undertaken on randomly collected cell cultures revealed a false-negative and several false-positive results in comparison to the cytological methods employed. The observations were particularly more unambiguous with the immunofluorescent assay employed in the study while simultaneously employed Hoechst staining serving as an indicator of bacterial contamination. There is a general apprehension that genus-specific PCR approaches could be associated with inaccurate outcome and only species-specific PCRs may be satisfactory in routine screening for mycoplasma contamination in cell cultures. At this juncture, it may be suggested that caution must be exercised while adopting the two-step nested PCR-based detection approaches, and the simultaneous employment of cytological methods used in this investigation could prove to be practicable in the proper interpretation of results.
4295341| Considerable evidence suggests that space travelers are immunosuppressed, presumably by microgravity environmental stresses, putting them at risk for adverse effects, such as opportunistic infections, poor wound healing, and cancer. The purpose of this study was to examine the role and mechanisms of nucleotide (NT) supplementation as a countermeasure to obviate immunosuppression during space travel. The in vitro rotary cell culture system, a bioreactor (BIO), was used to simulate the effect of microgravity and to isolate the neuroendocrine effects inherent to in vitro models. The splenocytes from normal mice were cultured in BIO and control tissue culture (TC) flasks with and without phytohemagglutinin (PHA) for mitogen assays. The culture medium was then supplemented with various concentrations of a nucleosides-nucleotides mixture (NS + NT), inosine, and uridine. Cytokines interleukin (IL)-l, IL-2, IL-3, tumor necrosis factor-, and interferon (IFN)- were measured from the supernatant by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In the PHA-stimulated cultures the cellular proliferation in the BIO was significantly decreased as compared with the TC flask cells. BIO-cultured cells in the presence of NS + NT maintained mitogen responses similar to the control TC flask cells. The maintenance of the mitogen response in BIO was observed by the supplementation of uridine and not of inosine. These results are in agreement with our earlier results from unit gravity experiments that showed that pyrimidines are more effective in pleiogenic immunoprotection to hosts. Cytokines IL-l, IL-2, and IFN- in the BIO supernatants of cells cultured in the presence of NS + NT had a significantly higher response than the control vessel. Thus, supplemental NT, especially pyrimidines, can confer immune protection and enhance cytokine responses during space travel. 
4295394|During implantation, complex embryo-endometrium interactions result in blastocyst adhesion. To study the mechanisms of implantation, an effective assay for monitoring adhesiveness between embryos and endometrial epithelium is essential. In this study, we describe a simple and reliable method to quantify embryo-endometrium adhesion in vitro. Murine blastocysts or BeWo trophoblast spheroids were cocultured with monolayers of RL95-2 endometrial epithelial cells (EEC) grown in 96-well plates. At the end of coculture, the wells were filled with medium, and the plate was sealed with an adhesive film, inverted, and centrifuged at 25 x g for 5 min. After centrifugation, the plate was kept inverted and directly examined microscopically to determine whether the blastocysts or spheroids were attached to EEC monolayers. Our assay demonstrated that blastocysts recovered at 1200-1400 h on d 4 were more adherent to EEC than those recovered earlier, consistent with the timing of intrauterine embryo activation. Serum also enhanced blastocyst-EEC adhesion. Spheroid-EEC adhesion was inhibited by blocking Ca
4294738|Micromass cultures of chick and mouse limb-bud mesenchymal cells are commonly used for in vitro studies of cellular differentiation. Previously, adaptation of these cultures to 96-well plates facilitated analyses of various aspects of cellular behavior and the effects of different media components in these cultures. These adjustments allowed development of a serum-free medium for chick limb-bud mesenchymal cells and substantially decreased costs associated with media and reagents. Here we report a further development for this model system; a Hoechst 33342-based in situ DNA assay that provides reliable data much more quickly and with considerably less effort than had been feasible in the past. Because it allows quantitation of products of cellular differentiation and DNA in the same cultures, the number of cultures needed to provide the same data is essentially halved and the accuracy of normalized values for quantitative estimates of markers of differentiation is improved. Studies of the effects of retinoic acid on chick limb-bud mesenchymal cells were performed to document the usefulness of this method.
4294529|Atherosclerotic lesions are composed of cellular elements that have migrated from the vessel lumen and wall to form the cellular component of the developing plaque. The cellular elements are influenced by various growth-regulatory molecules, cytokines, chemoattractants, and vasoregulatory molecules that regulate the synthesis of the extracellular matrix composing the plaque. Because vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) constitute the major cellular elements of the atherosclerotic plaque and are thought to be responsible for the extracellular matrix that becomes calcified in mature plaques, immunostaining for collagenous and noncollagenous proteins typically associated with bone matrix was conducted on VSMG grown in vitro. VSMC obtained from human aorta were grown in chambers on glass slides and immunostained for procollagen type I, bone sialoprotein, osteonectin, osteocalcin, osteopontin, decorin, and biglycan. VSMC demonstrated an intense staining for procollagen type I, and a moderately intense staining for the noncollagenous proteins, bone sialoprotein and osteonectin, two proteins closely associated with bone mineralization. Minimal immunostaining was noted for osteocalcin, osteopontin, decorin, and biglycan. The presence in VSMC of collagenous and noncollagenous proteins associated with bone mineralization suggest that the smooth muscle cells in the developing atherosclerotic plaque play an important role in the deposition of the extracellular matrix involved in calcification of developing lesions.
4295632|The objective of this study was to evaluate synchronous and asynchronous pronucleus (PN) formation and the related patterns of juxtapositional nucleolus (n) formation in immature (prophase I [PI] and metaphase I [MI]) and mature (metaphase II [MII]) oocytes after fertilization, both ultrastructurally and at the level of light microscope. A single dose of 15 IU gonadotrophin was injected subcutaneously to twenty four 26-wk-old, female Wistar rats to induce ovulation. Human chorionic gonadotrophin (4 IU) was administered 40 h later, and after 4-6 h the ovaries were dissected, and the oocytes were aspirated. A total of 214 rat oocytes were classified according to a maturation index as follows: group I, 80 PI oocytes; group II, 50 MI oocytes; and group III, 84 MII oocytes. Immature oocytes were in vitro matured for 18-36 h. Spermatozoa were acquired by microepididymal sperm aspiration and processed using swim-up technique. Intracytoplasmic sperm injection was performed on mature oocytes after 2 h of incubation and on in vitro matured (IVM) oocytes 4 h after maturation. Pronuclear synchronization [both pronucleases (PNs) centrally located, equal sized, with equal numbers and sizes of juxtapositional nucleoli (Nn)] was observed in fertilized oocytes. Asynchronous PN formation (diversity between male and female PNs, related to dimensions, localization, and the number of Nn) in groups I, II, and III was found in 75, 86, and 47% of preembryos, respectively. There was a significant difference of synchronous pronuclear formation between mature and IVM oocytes (P < 0.05). In IVM oocytes, asynchronous PN formation is high, and juxtapositional pronucleolar patterns are observed to be low by transmission electron microscope (TEM).
4295287|NPC-N cells were normal human nasopharyngeal epithelial cells transformed by transfection with human papillomavirus type 16 deoxyribonucleic acid. Bovine pituitary extract (BPE) was one of the indispensable ingredients for in vitro culture of NPC-N cells in a serum-free medium. Chromatographic fractionation of BPE and subsequent immunoblotting analyses identified the hemoglobin growth-stimulating factor. Methemoglobin (metHb) was then synthesized, and also found to be growth stimulating. The growth-stimulating effect of metHb was abolished when NPC-N cells were cultured in a medium that also contained haptoglobin, a molecule that binds to hemoglobin. A defined medium consisting of insulin and metHb was then developed for optimal growth of NPC-N cells. MetHb kept under the conditions identical to those of cell culture released hemin which also enhanced the cell growth. Though all the degradation products of hemin are currently known to be physiologically significant, only ferric iron derived from metHb or hemin could stimulate the growth of NPC-N cells. Abnormal vasculature showing leaky walls and hemorrhage is a common feature of malignant tumors. Hemoglobin originating from extravasated red blood cells and subsequently oxidized to metHb because of the presence of activated inflammatory cells might contribute to the increased proliferation of cancerous cells.
4295142| Embryonic heart cells undergo cyclic strain as the developing heart circulates blood to the embryo. Cyclic strain may have an important regulatory role in formation of the adult structure. This study examines the feasibility of a computerized cell-stretching device for applying strain to embryonic cardiocytes to allow measurement of the cellular response, A primary coculture of myocytes and a secondary culture of nonmyocytes from stage-31 (7 d) embryonic chick hearts were grown on collagen-coated membranes that were subsequently strained at 2 Hz to 20% maximal radial strain. After 24 h, total cell number increased by 37  6% in myocyte cocultures and by 26  6% in nonmyocyte cultures over unstrained controls. Lactate dehydrogenase and apoptosis assays showed no significant differences in cell viabilities between strained and unstrained cells. After 2 h strain, bromodeoxyuridine incorporation was 38  1.2% versus 19  0.2% (P < 0.01) in strained versus unstrained myocyte cocultures, and 35  2.1% versus 16  0.2% (P = 0.01) in nonmyocyte cultures. MF20 antibody labeling and periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining estimated the number of myocytes in strained wells as 50-67% larger than in control wells. Tyrosine phosphorylation may play a role in the cellular response to strain, as Western blot analysis showed an increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of two proteins with approximate molecular weights of 63 and 150 kDa within 2 min of strain. The results of this study indicate that embryonic chick cardiocytes can be cultured in an active mechanical environment without significant detachment and damage and that increased proliferation may be a primary response to strain. 
40663811|Human embryonic stem cells are derived from the inner cell mass of pre-implantaton embryos. The cells have unlimited proliferation potential and capacity to differentiate into the cells of the three germ layers. Human embryonic stem cells are used to study human embryogenesis and disease modeling and may in the future serve as cells for cell therapy and drug screening. Human embryonic stem cells are usually isolated from surplus normal frozen embryos and were suggested to be isolated from diseased embryos detected by pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. Here we report the isolation of 12 human embryonic stem cell lines and their thorough characterization. The lines were derived from embryos detected to have aneuploidy by pre-implantation genetic screening. Karyotype analysis of these cell lines showed that they are euploid, having 46 chromosomes. Our interpretation is that the euploid cells originated from mosaic embryos, and in vitro selection favored the euploid cells. The undifferentiated cells exhibited long-term proliferation and expressed markers typical for embryonic stem cells such as OCT4, NANOG, and TRA-1-60. The cells manifested pluripotent differentiation both in vivo and in vitro. To further characterize the different lines, we have analyzed their ethnic origin and the family relatedness among them. The above results led us to conclude that the aneuploid mosaic embryos that are destined to be discarded can serve as source for normal euploid human embryonic stem cell lines. These lines represent various ethnic groups; more lines are needed to represent all populations.
4295612| In an earlier article, we reported that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) inhibits the natural killer cell (NK) cytotoxicity of human whole blood in a dose-dependent manner and that natural human interferon- (IFN-) partially eliminates this effect. Because natural IFN- might contain factors other than IFN, we repeated these experiments with recombinant human interferon- (rhIFN-) and separated blood lymphocytes enriched with NK cells and then demonstrated that IFN really is responsible for this effect. Furthermore, this investigation was carried out to clarify the mechanisms of the action of 5-HT and of rhIFN- on NK cells. The inhibition of the cytotoxicity was pronounced when 5-HT was added at the onset of the cytotoxic assay, whereas the pretreatment of lymphocytes for 18 h only led to a slight inhibition. Moreover, rhIFN- applied 1 h before or 1 h after the addition of 5-HT decreased the inhibitory effect of 5-HT. Flow cytometric analysis involving the use of a voltage-sensitive dye, oxonol, revealed that 5-HT depolarized, whereas rhIFN- hyperpolarized the plasma membrane of the lymphocytes. Thus, it seems likely that the inhibitory effect of 5-HT on the cytotoxicity of peripheral human lymphocytes is due to the depolarization on the plasma membrane of the effector cells and that rhIFN- antagonizes this ability via its hyperpolarizing activity. 
41417648|MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 21-25 nt long noncoding RNA that modulate various biological processes, including developmental timing via regulating the expression of their target genes. One critical determinant of normal postnatal lung architecture is septation, and there are many miRNAs involved in the development process. miR-134 is reported as a powerful inducer of pluripotent stem cell differentiation, and we have found that miR-134 is strongly downregulated during mice lung septation (from postnatal Day 2 to postnatal Day 21). Further cell function experiments have revealed that over-expression of miR-134 in A549 and Calu-3 cells can promote cell proliferation and inhibit cell apoptosis and migration abilities in vitro, and the down-expression of miR-134 in cells can act in the opposite way, which indicate that miR-134 is associated with lung septation. This study provides a basis for further investigation of its function in lung development.
20172192|Recently, bluetongue virus (BLU) serotype 11 was detected in diseased dogs that had been inoculated with live attenuated vaccine contaminated with this serotype of bluetongue virus (Akita et al., 1994). For various laboratory tests, BLU can be propagated in different cell cultures. No information was found in the literature about the possibility of propagating this virus in canine cells. To determine whether the BLU isolate from the contaminated canine vaccine (BLU-vac) is unique in its ability to replicate in canine cells, this virus was studied in parallel with U.S. prototype strains of BLU (serotypes 2, 10, 11, 13, and 17), in hamster lung (HmLu-1) and canine kidney (MDCK) cell cultures. In HmLu-1 cell cultures, the BLU-vac produced cytopathic effect (CPE) of the same type as the U.S. prototype BLU strains by 4 to 6 d postinoculation. In MDCK cell cultures, all of the BLU strains tested were able to replicate but did not produce CPE. The BLU-inoculated MDCK cells became persistently infected, and these cultures continued to produce infectious BLU even after six serial passages over 2 mo. In none of these cultures was CPE observed. In mixed cultures containing both HmLu-1 and MDCK cells, CPE first affected the HmLu-1 islands; subsequently, CPE spread also to the areas with MDCK cells. The silent persistent infection of the MDCK cells with BLU indicates that more stringent screening of the cells used in the production of live vaccines for various contaminating viruses is necessary.
20172249|The temporal and spatial expression patterns of the Wilms tumor gene, WT1, were studied during the organogenesis of the mouse kidney in vitro. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry localized cellular expression of WT1 in whole kidney organ cultures to the induced metanephric mesenchyme and developing podocytes. Organ cultures were further characterized immunocytochemically with antibodies that specifically labeled the different tubular epithelial components and supporting mesenchyme of the developing nephrons. In organ cultures, the WT1 expression pattern could be visualized in induced metanephric mesenchyme and entire cell cohorts of differentiating podocytes. Expression of WT1 and cell specific markers were retained in short-term monolayer cultures of dissociated kidneys. The development of the metanephric kidney in vitro involves a highly restricted temporal and spatial cellular expression pattern of WT1 which closely follows that observed in tissue sections from gestational kidney isolated during organogenesis in the mouse.
4294800|EpH4 is a nontumorigenic cell line derived from spontaneously immortalized mouse mammary gland epithelial cells (Fialka et al., 1996). When grown in collagen gels, EpH4 cells give rise to different types of structures, e.g., solid cords or branching tubes. By removing and subsequently dissociating single three-dimensional colonies of defined morphology, we have isolated six clonal subpopulations of EpH4 cells which display distinct morphogenetic properties in collagen gel cultures. Thus, cells from the
4294392|The effects of Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) on mucin secretion in the pancreatic cancer Capan-1 cell line were studied by Enzyme-linked-immunosorbent-assay (ELISA), and by light and electron microscopy using immunocytological methods. During the exponential growth phase, mucins were accumulated in the cytoplasm of cells and slowly exocytosed. In contrast, there was enhanced exocytosis of mucins during the stationary phase when the cells were well-polarized. Moreover, during this phase, VIP induced a dose-dependent rise in mucin content in the extracellular medium. The reaction with anti-M1 monoclonal antibodies, which recognize specifically the peptide core of gastric mucins, showed an accumulation of secretion granules near the apex of well-polarized cells together with fusion of the granule and plasma membranes after VIP stimulation. Moreover, mucin exocytosis was stimulated by Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating poly peptide (PACAP) and secretin. It was also increased after forskolin treatment suggesting that this mechanism was cAMP-dependent. Our results suggested that exocytosis of mucins could be under the control of VIP in pancreatic duct cells of the Capan-1 cell line.
4294734| The Anaeropack system for cell culture, which was originally designed for the growth of anaerobic bacteria, was used to produce a hypoxic atmosphere for cultured hepatocytes. We measured changes in the oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations and the atmospheric temperature in an airtight jar. We also measured changes in the pH of the medium during hypoxia to assess the accuracy of this system. Moreover, we used three durations (2, 3, and 4 h) of hypoxia and 8 h of reoxygenation in cultured rat hepatocytes, and then measured the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), ketone body concentration (acetoacetate + -hydroxybutyrate), and the ketone body ratio (KBR: acetoacetate/-hydroxybutyrate) in the medium in order to assess the suitability of this system as a model for reperfusion following liver ischemia. The oxygen concentration dropped to 1% or less within 1 h. The concentration of carbon dioxide rose to about 5% at 30 min after the induction of the hypoxic conditions, and was maintained at this level for 5 h. No effect of the reaction heat produced by the oxygen absorbent in the jar was recognized. The extent of cell injury produced by changing the hypoxic parameters was satisfactorily reflected by the KBR, the ketone body concentration, and the LDH activity released into the medium. Because this model can duplicate the conditions of the hepatocytes during revascularization following ischemic liver, and the Anaeropack system for cell culture is easy to manipulate, it seems suitable for the experimental study of hypoxic injury and revascularization in vitro. 
40981264|Keratinocytes migrating from a wound edge or initiating malignant invasion greatly increase their expression of the basement membrane protein Laminin-322 (Lam332). In culture, keratinocytes initiate sustained directional hypermotility when plated onto an incompletely processed form of Lam332 (Lam332') or when treated with transforming growth factor beta (TGF-), an inducer of Lam332 expression. The development and tissue architecture of stratified squamous and prostate epithelia are very different, yet the basal cells of both express p63, 64 integrin, and Lam332. Keratinocytes and prostate epithelial cells grow well in nutritionally optimized culture media with pituitary extract and certain mitogens. We report that prostate epithelial cells display hypermotility responses indistinguishable from those of keratinocytes. Several culture medium variables attenuated TGF--induced hypermotility, including Ca, serum, and some pituitary extract preparations, without impairing growth, TGF-( growth inhibition, or hypermotility on Lam322'. Distinct from its role as a mitogen, EGF proved to be a required cofactor for TGF-(-induced hypermotility and could not be replaced by HGF or KGF. Prostate epithelial cells have a short replicative lifespan, restricted both by p16 INK4A and telomere-related mechanisms. We immortalized the normal prostate epithelial cell line HPrE-1 by transduction to express bmi1 and TERT. Prostate epithelial cells lose expression of p63, 4 integrin, and Lam332 when they transform to invasive carcinoma. In contrast, HPrE-1 /bmil/TERT cells retained expression of these proteins and normal TGF- signaling and hypermotility for > 100 doublings. Thus, keratinocytes and prostate epithelial cells possess common hypermotility and senescence mechanisms and immortalized prostate cell lines can be engineered using defined methods to yield cells retaining normal properties.
40602787|Semi-circular tracheal cartilage is a critical determinant of maintaining architectural integrity of the respiratory airway. The current effort to understand the morphogenesis of tracheal cartilage is challenged by the lack of appropriate model systems. Here we report an in vitro tracheal cartilage system using embryonic tracheallung expiants to recapitulate in vivo tracheal cartilage developmental processes. With modifications of a current lung culture protocol, we report a consistent in vitro technique of culturing tracheal cartilage from primitive mouse embryonic foregut for the first time. This tracheal culture system not only induces the formation of tracheal cartilage from the mouse embryonic foregut but also allows for the proper patterning of the developed tracheal cartilage.Furthermore, we show that this culture technique can be applied to culturing other types of cartilage in vertebrae, limbs, and ribs. We believe that this novel application of our in vitro culture system will facilitate the manipulation of cartilage development under various conditions and thus enabling us to advance our current limited knowledge on cartilage biology and development.
41417643|Several techniques have been devised for the dissociation of tissues for primary culture. These techniques can affect the quantity and quality of the isolated cells. The aim of our study was to develop the most appropriate method for the isolation of human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal (hUCM) cells. In the present study, we compared four methods for the isolation of hUCM cells: three enzymatic methods; collagenase/hyaluronidase/trypsin (CHT), collagenase/trypsin (CT) and trypsin (Trp), and an expiant culture (Exp) method. The trypan blue dye exclusion test, the water-soluble tetrazolium salt-1 (WST-1) assay, flow cytometry, alkaline phosphatase activity and histochemical staining were used to evaluate the results of the different methods. The hUCM cells were successfully isolated by all methods but the isolation method used profoundly altered the cell number and proliferation capacity of the isolated cells. The cells were successfully differentiated into adipogenic and osteogenic lineages and alkaline phosphatase activity was detected in the hUCM cell colonies of all groups. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that CD44, CD73, CD90 and CD 105 were expressed in all groups, while CD34 and CD45 were not expressed. The expression of C-kit in the enzymatic groups was higher than in the expiant group, while the expression of Oct-4 was higher in the CT group compared to the other groups. We concluded that the collagenase/trypsin method of cell isolation yields a higher cell density than the others. These cells expressed a higher rate of pluripotent cell markers such as C-kit and Oct-4, while the expiant method of cell isolation resulted in a higher cell proliferation rate and activity compared to the other methods.
4294730|The capacity of two Trichoplusia ni (TN-368 and BTI-Tn-5b1-4) and a Spodoptera frugiperda (IPLB-SF-21A) cell lines to glycosylate recombinant, baculovirus-encoded, secreted, placental alkaline phosphatase was compared. The alkaline phosphatase from serum-containing, cell culture medium was purified by phosphate affinity column chromatography. The N-linked oligosaccharides were released from the purified protein with PNGase F and analyzed by fluorophore-assisted carbohydrate electrophoresis. The majority of oligosaccharide structures produced by the three cell lines contained two or three mannose residues, with and without core fucosylation, but there were structures containing up to seven mannose residues. The oligosaccharides that were qualitatively or quantitatively different between the cell lines were sequenced with glycosidase digestions. The S. frugiperda cells produced more fucosylated oligosaccharides than either of the T. ni cell lines. The smallest oligosaccharide produced by S. frugiperda cells was branched trimannose. In contrast, both T. ni cell lines produced predominantly dimannose and linear trimannose structures devoid of a 1-3-linked mannose.
20869601|Evolution of unresponsiveness to homeostasis-promoting signals from the microenvironment is a hallmark of malignant tumor cells. In Dunning R3327 model rat prostate tumors that are comprised of distinct stromal and epithelial compartments, progression from non-malignant, androgen-responsive tumors to malignancy is characterized by loss of compartmentation coincident with a loss of resident epithelial cell FGFR2IIIb that receives instructive signals from stromal FGF7 and FGF10. Restoration of FGFR2IIIb to malignant tumor cells restores responsiveness to stromal cells, restores distinct stromal and epithelial compartments, and retards malignant progression. Cultured stromal cells from two-compartment tumors are comprised of smooth muscle -actin-positive cells that express predominantly FGFR3 and fibroblast-like cells devoid of -actin and FGFR3. Here, we show that it is primarily the smooth muscle cell-like -actin-expressing stromal cells that survive, morphologically differentiate, and delay tumor incidence and size in the presence of malignant cells in which FGFR2IIIb has been restored. Expression of FGFR3 by transfection in the fibroblast-like stromal cells conferred ability to respond similar to the smooth muscle cell-like stromal cells in which FGFR3 is normally resident. These results highlight the importance of the two-way communication back and forth between stroma and epithelium that is mediated by signaling within the FGFR family during progression to malignancy.
4295471| Induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP) by drugs is one of major concerns for drug-drug interactions. Thus, the assessment of CYP induction by novel compounds is a vital component in the drug discovery and development processes. Primary human hepatocytes are the preferred in vitro model for predicting CYP induction in vivo. However, their use is hampered by the erratic supply of human tissue and donor-to-donor variability. Although cryopreserved hepatocytes have been recommended for short-term applications in suspension, their use in studies on induction of enzyme activity has been limited because of poor attachment and response to enzyme inducers. In this study, we report culture conditions that allowed the attachment of cryopreserved human hepatocytes and responsiveness to CYP inducers. We evaluated the inducibility of CYP1A1/2 and CYP3A4 enzymes in cryopreserved hepatocytes from three human donors. Cryopreserved human hepatocytes were cultured in serum-free medium for 4 d. They exhibited normal morphology and measurable viability as evaluated by the reduction of tetrazolium salts (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl) -2H-tetrazolium, inner salt) by cellular dehydrogenases. Treatment with -naphthoflavone (10 M) for 3 d increased ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity (CYP1A1/2) by 6- to 11-fold over untreated cultures and increased CYP1A2 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression by three- to eightfold. Similarly, treatment of cryopreserved human hepatocytes with rifampicin (25 M) for 3 d increased testosterone 6-hydroxylase activity (CYP3A4) by five- to eightfold over untreated cultures and increased CYP3A4 mRNA expression by four- to eightfold. The results suggest that cryopreserved human hepatocytes can be a suitable in vitro model for evaluating xenobiotics as inducers of CYP1A1/2 and CYP3A4 enzymes. 
4294194|Isolated type II pneumocytes grown in serum on tissue culture-treated polycarbonate filters form monolayers with characteristic bioelectric properties, and change morphologically with time in culture to resemble type I cells. Concurrently, the cells express type I cell surface epitopes, making this a potentially useful in vitro model with which to study regulation of alveolar epithelial cell function and differentiation. To define specific soluble growth factors and matrix substances that may regulate these processes, it would be preferable to culture isolated pneumocytes de novo under completely defined, serum-free conditions. In this study, we developed a completely defined serum-free medium that is capable of supporting alveolar epithelial cells in primary culture, allowing the formation of monolayers with characteristic bioelectric and phenotypic properties. Freshly isolated rat type II cells were resuspended in completely defined serum-free medium and plated de novo on polycarbonate filters. Plating efficiency, bioelectric properties, morphology, and binding of a type I cell-specific monoclonal antibody were determined as functions of time. Plating efficiency plateaus at about 14% by Day 3 in culture. Transepithelial resistance rises to high levels, peaking at
4295229|One key to the in vitro mass production of baculoviruses is the development of insect cell lines capable of producing high levels of extracellular virus (ECV) and/or occlusion bodies (OBs). For this study, 34 newly established cell lines from 10 lepidopteran species were screened for their ability to produce ECV and OBs from a variety of baculoviruses. The selected baculoviruses included: the alfalfa looper virus (AcMNPV); the celery looper virus (AfMNPV); the velvetbean caterpillar virus (AgMNPV), the bollworm virus (HzSNPV), the diamondback moth virus (PxMNPV), and the beet armyworm virus (SeMNPV). ECV titers were determined using TCID
40602780|The adipogenesis effect of fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) has been demonstrated in many studies. The aim of this study is to render a novel method which can continuously induce hypodermal adipose-derived stem cell (ADSC) differentiation and maturation in vivo and in vitro using FGF10. We constructed a recombinant pcDNA3.0-FGF10-MSC which can continuously express FGF10 by transfected FGF10 into a human mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) clone, and we cultured ADSCs from human subcutaneous resected adipose tissue. An in vitro and in vivo coculture system of pcDNA3.0FGF10-MSC and ADSCs was then established. We observed the characteristics of ADSCs, monitored the adipogenesis-related transcription factor CAAT/enhancer binding protein-, peroxisome proliferatoractivated receptor-, and measured the adipose tissue layer of carrier animals. The results showed that FGF10 secreted from pcDNA30-FGF10-MSC could induce ADSC differentiation into mature adipocytes consistently. The study demonstrated that FGF10 can promote the adipogenesis effect in situ, and the autotransplantation of a carrier continuously secreting FGF10 may be utilized for increasing local subcutaneous adipose tissue in cosmetology.
40602788|High-throughput flow cytometry of adherent cells is difficult because the creation of single cell suspensions can damage cells and yield artificial results. We describe a protocol to increase the single cell suspension yield of adherent human cells without injury. Doxorubicin, a cytotoxic agent, was administered to adherent human pancreatic carcinoma cell lines (Panc-1 and AsPC-1) to produce alterations in the cell cycle and intracellular protein expression. The cells in 96-well plates were disassociated using a collagenase and trypsin mixture. Fluorescence-activated high-throughput flow cytometry evaluated cellular viability as well as surface and intracellular protein expression. Cell cycle analysis was performed using 7-aminoactinomycin D and intracellular protein characterization was performed using a fluorescein-labeled monoclonal antibody against activated caspase-3. The collagenase-trypsin-based protocol increased single cell events from 31.9  0.5% using trypsin alone (standard) to a range of 62.1% to 85.5% without adversely affecting viability. High-throughput flow cytometry demonstrated that the addition of collagenase to the disassociation solution not only permitted significantly higher rates of single cell creation, but it did not negatively affect the doxorubicin-induced protein expression. This protocol allows for expedient and effective disassociation of adherent human cells in order to investigate alterations in specific cellular enzymes and pathways.
4294939|Studies of brain cell function and physiology are hampered by the limited availability of immortal human brain-derived cell lines, as a result of the technical difficulties encountered in establishing immortal human cells in culture. In this study, we demonstrate the application of recombinant DNA vectors expressing SV40 T antigen for the development of immortal human cell cultures, with morphological, growth, and functional properties of astrocytes. Primary human astrocytes were transfected with the SV40 T antigen expression vectors, pSV3neo or p735.6, and cultures were established with an extended lifespan. One of these cultures gave rise to an immortal cell line, designated A735. All the human SV40-derived lines retained morphological features and growth properties of type 1 astrocytes. Immunohistochemical studies and Western blot analysis of the intermediate filament proteins and glutamine synthetase demonstrated a differentiated but immature astrocyte phenotype. Transport of y-amino butyric acid and glutamate were examined and found to be by a glial-specific mechanism, consistent with the cell lines' retaining aspects of normal glial function. We conclude that methods based on the use of SV40 T antigen can successfully immortalize human astrocytes, retaining key astrocyte functions, but T antigen-induced proliferation appeared to interfere with expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein. We believe A735 is the first documented nontumor-derived human glial cell line which is immortal.
4295486|Human proximal tubular (PT) epithelial cells were isolated from urine and monoclonally cultured as monolayers for 1 wk, after which they were subcultured between two layers of collagen gel, designated a "collagen gel sandwich." Under these culture conditions, PT cells formed three-dimensional tubular structures exhibiting distinct polarized cell morphology. Scanning and transmission electron microscopic studies showed that they bore numerous microvilli at the apical surface and that they closely contacted the collagen gel at the basal surface. These studies indicate that PT cells exfoliated in urine still exhibit the potential to proliferate and form organized structures mimicking in vivo tubules. Because of the current lack of useful culture systems for human tubular epithelial cells originating from kidney tissue, we suggest that this unique culture system using voided PT cells in urine could open up new avenues to study not only the mechanisms of morphogenesis but also the physiology of human PT cells.
40205915|Manufacturers of vaccines and other biologicals are under increasing pressure from regulatory agencies to develop production methods that are completely animalcomponent-free. In order to comply with this demand, alternative cell culture substrates to those now on the market, primarily collagen or gelatin, must be found. In this paper, we have tested a number of possible substitutes including recombinant collagen, a 100-kDa recombinant gelatin fragment and a peptide derived from a cell-binding region of type I collagen. The small 15-amino acid peptide did not support attachment of human fbroblasts in monolayer culture. The 100-kDa gelatin fragment supported cell attachment in monolayer culture, but was significantly less active than intact porcine gelatin. Recombinant type I collagen was as successful in promoting cell attachment as native collagen, and both were more effective than porcine gelatin. Based on these data, dextran microspheres were treated with the same attachment proteins--porcine gelatin, native collagen, or recombinant collagen. The same trends were observed as in monolayer culture. Concentrations of the recombinant collagen (as well as native collagen) supported cell attachment on dextran microspheres at concentrations as low as 0.01 g/cm. Treatment of the dextran with a low level of polyethylenimine, a cationic moiety, further enhanced attachment when used in conjunction with the low concentration of recombinant collagen. Where there was increased cell attachment, increased proliferation followed. We are confident, based on these findings, that a fully recombinant substitute could replace gelatin in current microcarrier preparations without losing the cell growth benefits provided by the native protein.
4295646|In this study, we have documented by morphological analysis, immunocytochemistry, and electrophysiology, the development of a culture system that promotes the growth and long-term survival of dissociated adult rat spinal cord neurons. This system comprises a patternable, nonbiological, cell growth-promoting organosilane substrate coated on a glass surface and an empirically derived novel serum-free medium, supplemented with specific growth factors (acidic fibroblast growth factor, heparin sulfate, neurotrophin-3, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, glial-derived neurotrophic factor, cardiotrophin-1, and vitronectin). Neurons were characterized by immunoreactivity for neurofilament 150, neuron-specific enolase, Islet-1 antibodies, electrophysiology, and the cultures were maintained for 4-6 wk. This culture system could be a useful tool for the study of adult mammalian spinal neurons in a functional in vitro system.
20869569|Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs), like other stem cells, have unique properties: prolonged proliferation, self-renewal, generation of differentiated progeny, and maintenance of developmental potential. Long-term cultivation of normal SSCs into stable cell lines, and maintaining SSCs in an undifferentiated state capable of self-renewal, is a major challenge. Here, we compare the effect of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) expression on mouse SSCs isolated from testicular tissue cultured under different conditions. We found that human amniotic epithelial cells (hAECs) with high LIF expression (LIF high ) feeder cells allowed mouse SSCs to maintain a high level of AP activity when cultured long term. Expression of some important stem cell markers was higher in mouse SSCs cultured on hAECs (LIF high ) compared to those cultured on hAECs (LIF low ). Taken together, these results suggest that LIF expression could be a crucial component for feeder cells to maintain mouse SSCs in an undifferentiated, proliferative state capable of self-renewal.
20460120|The aim of this study was to evaluate some bioassays that are different in principle: cell counting, colony forming assay, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT), sulforhodamine B (SRB), crystal violet, and alamarBlue, with respect to their ability to measure cisplatin-induced cell death of in vitro--cultivated squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). Cisplatin was applied in concentrations of 1.0, 5.0, 10.0, 50.0, and 100 M. The cells were incubated for 1 h, and the cell survival was measured 5 d after treatment. We found the colorimetric assays and cell counting to be comparable. The colony forming assay indicated a higher degree of cell kill compared with the other techniques. Measurement of cell survival after treatment with cisplatin can be done by use of any of the above tested assays. However, the majority of SCCHN cell lines available do not form colonies easily, or at all. Therefore, comparing the chemosensitivity between such cell lines is limited to alternative assays. In this respect, any of the tested colorimetric assays can be used. However, they seem to underestimate cell kill. Cell counting is also an alternative. This technique, however, is time consuming and operator dependent, as in the case of manual counting, or relatively expensive when counting is performed electronically, compared with the colorimetric assays.
4294481|MCF-7 human breast cancer cells express E-cadherin and show, at least in some circumstances, E-cadherin-dependent cell-cell adhesion (Bracke et al., 1993).The MCF-7/AZ variant spontaneously displays E-cadherin-dependent fast aggregation; in the MCF-7/6 variant, E-cadherin appeared not to be spontaneously functional in the conditions of the fast aggregation assay, but function could be induced by incubation of the suspended cells in the presence of insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I) (Bracke et al, 1993). E-cadherin from MCF-7 cells was shown to contain sialic acid. Treatment with neuraminidase was shown to remove this sialic acid, as well as most of the sialic acid present at the cell surface. Applied to MCF-7/AZ, and MCF-7/6 cells, pretreatment with neuraminidase abolished spontaneous as well as IGF-I induced, E-cadherin-dependent fast cell-cell adhesion of cells in suspension, as measured in the fast aggregation assay. Treatment with neuraminidase did not, however, inhibit the possibly different, but equally E-cadherin-mediated, process of cell-cell adhesion of MCF-7 cells on a flat plastic substrate as assessed by determining the percentage of cells remaining isolated (without contact with other cells) 24 h after plating.
4295660| The mammalian intestinal epithelium has been found, based on in vivo experiments, to be resistant to insecticidal Cry toxins, which are derived from Bacillus thuringiensis and fatally damage insect midgut cells. Thus, the toxins are commonly used as a genetic resource in insect-resistant transgenic plants for feed. However, Cry toxins bind to the cellular brush border membrane vesicle (BBMV) of mammalian intestinal cells. In this study, we investigated the affinity of Cry1Ab toxin, a lepidopteran-specific Cry1-type toxin, to the cellular BBMV of two mammalian intestinal cells as well as the effect of the toxin on the membrane potential of three mammalian intestinal cells compared to its effects on the silkworm midgut cell. We found that Cry1Ab toxin did bind to the bovine and porcine BBMV, but far more weakly than it did to the silkworm midgut BBMV. Furthermore, although the silkworm midgut cells developed severe membrane potential changes within 1 h following the toxin treatment at a final concentration of 2 g/ml, no such membraneous changes were observed on the bovine, porcine, and human intestinal cells. The present in vitro results suggest that, although Cry1Ab toxin may bind weakly or nonspecifically to certain BBMV components in the mammalian intestinal cell, it does not damage the cell's membrane integrity, thus exerting no subsequent adverse effects on the cell. 
4294374|The ability of the collagen matrix form to support the formation of a basal lamina by cultured normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEK) was determined using transmission electron microscopy. The collagen matrix forms tested in this study were a) a dry type I collagen film and b) a type I collagen gel. NHEK were grown for 14 days on the following five different substrates: plain plastic culture dishes without the addition of collagen (PP); plain plastic culture dishes overlaid with a dry, aldehyde-crosslinked type I collagen film (DCF-P); plain plastic culture dishes overlaid with an aldehyde-cross-linked type I collagen gel (GEL-P); Millipore Millicell CM microporous membranes overlaid with a dry, aldehyde-cross-linked type I collagen film (DCF-CM); and Millipore Millicell CM microporous membranes overlaid with an aldehyde-crosslinked type I collagen gel (GEL-CM). NHEK maintained for 2 wk on PP and DCF-P were unable to secrete a basal lamina. NHEK grown for 2 wk on the GEL-P and GEL-CM substrates, however, secreted a contiguous basal lamina at the GEL-NHEK interface. To determine if the appearance of this basal lamina correlated with laminin synthesis, laminin was immunoprecipitated from cellular extracts, as well as media from the apical and basal chambers. NHEK grown on the GEL-P substrate synthesized more laminin than did NHEK grown on the other four alternative substrates. In addition, NHEK grown on GEL-CM were able to direct more laminin to the basal compartment than NHEK grown on DCF-CM substrates. Taken together, the data indicate that the matrix form of collagen can influence basal lamina deposition, laminin synthesis, and laminin trafficking in NHEK.
4295153|A rat cell line-nominated CC-62 derived from a combined hepatocellular and cholangiocellular carcinoma obtained by administration of 2-acetylaminofluorene to male Wistar rats, has been established. Using light and electron microscopy it was determined that morphologically the tumor consisted of a mixed population of hepatocytes and cholangiolar neoplastic cells, intermingled with small, undifferentiated oval-like cells. The CC-62 line has been maintained through 90 passages in culture adopting a paving stone arrangement. Doubling time at the 12th passage was 23 h. Immunostaining with a panel of antisera was performed to identify the cytological profiles of the cell line. There was no k-ras or p53 expression by immunohistochemistry, and molecular biology failed to detect mutations. Molecular analysis by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed transcripts for c-met but no expression of HGF messenger ribonucleic acid. Three cell lines cloned from CC-62 showed the same immunohistochemical and molecular pattern as the parental line. Cytogenetic analysis revealed a chromosome number ranging from 74 to 82 with a modal number of 79 but no clonal structural abnormalities were found. Deoxyribonucleic acid ploidy analysis showed an aneuploid peak. CC-62 caused tumors 1 mo after subcutaneous transplantation into nude mice, with morphological patterns of mucosecretory solid and spindle-shaped carcinoma. This cell line is the first established from a primary rat combined hepatocellular and cholangiocellular neoplasm. The resulting cells expressed biological and morphological markers of hepatocytes and cholangiolar cells. Therefore this cell line may contribute to a better understanding of the histogenesis of liver cancer.
4294425|An impurity of phenol red (PRI) has been shown to markedly alter the intracellular Na
41408868|The proliferation and differentiation of the small intestinal epithelium depends on the microenvironment surrounding the stem cells, such as intestinal subepithelial myofibroblasts. Although there have been many culture studies of intestinal epithelial-mesenchymal interaction, a culture which allows long-term observations has been difficult. This study investigated the influence of intestinal subepithelial myofibroblasts on the proliferation and differentiation of intestinal epithelial cells with a relatively long-term observation of 3 wk using a 3D co-culture system. Cultured rat intestinal subepithelial myofibroblasts, obtained from the duodenum, were embedded in collagen gel and cells from the rat intestinal epithelial cell line IEC-6 seeded onto it. Histologic sections of the cell-embedded gels were made and histochemical and immunohistochemical examinations were carried out in conjunction with expression analysis of the pancreatic duodenal homeobox 1 (pdx-1) transcription factor in IEC-6 cells. The IEC-6 cells showed increased proliferation and displayed characteristic endocrine features when co-cultured with rat intestinal subepithelial myofibroblasts, arranging themselves into multilayer structures and becoming cuboidal, with abundant cytoplasm and oval nuclei. Some IEC-6 cells were immunohistochemically positive for chromogranin A and glicentin. They also expressed the pdx-1 transcription factor at both the mRNA and protein levels. The number and percentage of chromogranin A-positive cells increased with culture time, whereas no increase was observed in cells cultured without rat intestinal subepithelial myofibroblasts. The present study using a long-term 3D co-culture model has obtained evidence of the participation of intestinal subepithelial myofibroblasts in enteroendocrine differentiation, supported by the expression of pdx-1 and glicentin production.
4295008| At present, establishment of a cell line from bivalve molluscs has been unsuccessful, and in vitro work is limited to primary cell cultures. We sought to improve attachment and spreading of cells of the eastern oyster, Crassostrea virginica, to aid primary cultures and to assist development of a bivalve cell line. Our objectives were to examine the effects of substrate on ventricle cell viability, attachment, and spreading by testing of collagen I, collagen IV, fibronectin, laminin, poly-D-lysine, and two types of uncoated tissue culture plates (Falcon and Corning). Experiments were conducted by incubating cells with the various substrates for 24 h and 5 d. An assay with a tetrazolium compound (MTS) was used to estimate cell numbers based on metabolic activity. Although differences in MTS assay values for substrate effect on cell viability were detected at 24 h and at 5 d (P > 0.0001), these were attributed to variations in metabolic activity due to different levels of attachment and spreading among treatments. Differences among treatments were detected in attachment and spreading at 24 h and 5 d (for all, P > 0.0001). At 24 h, poly-D-lysine induced the highest levels of attachment and spreading; no other factor performed better than the uncoated Falcon substrate, and collagen I performed most poorly. At 5 d, poly-D-lysine and the uncoated Corning substrate induced significantly higher levels of attachment and spreading than did the uncoated Falcon substrate, and collagen I performed most poorly. From these results, poly-D-lysine best promoted cell attachment and spreading. Fibronectin (at 24 h) and laminin (at 5 d) warrant further study. Along with improvements in medium composition, future work should involve screening of other attachment factors and combinations of factors, including those of bivalve origin. 
4294773| Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) can influence proliferation and differentiation in vascular smooth muscle cells. Basic FGF promotes some features of the synthetic phenotype (proliferation) but is known to inhibit others (collagen synthesis). Whether bFGF availability influences smooth muscle cell phenotype independent of proliferation is not known. The purpose of this study was to determine if the effects of bFGF on extracellular matrix and contractile protein expression are dependent on changes in proliferation. Basic FGF availability was manipulated by adding bFGF to cultured cells or by inhibiting bFGF expression using antisense RNA, and adjusting culture conditions such that proliferation was held constant. Compared to cells cultured in serum alone, smooth muscle -actin and myosin heavy chain expression was markedly reduced by added bFGF, but was not influenced by antisense inhibition of bFGF expression. Under the same conditions, collagen synthesis was inhibited by added bFGF, and was stimulated by reduced bFGF expression. These consequences of altering bFGF availability were not associated with changes in FGF receptor expression. These findings demonstrate that alterations in bFGF availability can regulate smooth muscle cell phenotype independent of proliferation, which may be related to the regulation of smooth muscle cell phenotype in vivo. 
41417656|Studies on skeletal muscle cell specification and development have demonstrated in the past that calpains interact with various transcriptional factors in regulating the cellular function. It has therefore, been assumed that transcriptional factors like myogenin, MyoD, Myf5, and MRF4 that are active during the myogenic differentiation might be affected and degraded by calpains. Therefore, to examine the biochemical adaptations of myoblasts during myocyte formation and muscle development comprehensively, the current study was designed to identify the effect of calpeptin (calpain inhibitors) on protein expression during differentiation of C2C12 mouse myoblast. Cells were proliferated to near 80% confluence under Dulbecco's modified eagle medium and differentiated further in 2% HS with 50 M calpeptin. Incubated cells were collected at 0, 12, and 72 h and later the cell proteins were focused onto pH 4-7 IEF strip, followed by 12.5% SDS-PAGE. Obtained spots on the gels were compared and matched using commercial 2-DE analysis software and matched spots were identified by MALDI-ToF and/or Q-Tof systems. Conclusively, cell differentiation was observed to be active from 12 to 72 h however, calpeptin affected the differentiation process and cut down the rate of fusion by approximately 50%. Out of 41 proteins identified, 12 proteins were found to be upregulated where as 29 proteins were downregulated.
4295590|Selected morphological and physiological properties of the corpus allatum (CA)-corpus cardiacum (CC) complex from the two-spotted stinkbug, Perillus bioculatus (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae), were studied. The CAs play an important role in insect physiology because of their production of the juvenile hormones (JHs), i.e., key hormones involved in development and reproduction. We found that the P. bioculatus CA-CC complex is present in two distinct morphological forms, the more frequently observed complex containing one "fused" CA between two CCs and the more rarely observed complex having one CA laterally attached to each CC. These complexes were tested for their ability to synthesize JH-like compounds. We found that the primary lipophilic compound synthesized by the CA-CCs migrated differently from JH III (a JH found in numerous insect species) when subjected to thin-layer chromatography. Furthermore, the synthesis of this compound is stimulated by 2E,6E-farnesol, a known precursor for JH III. These data indicate that the P. bioculatus CA-CC product has chemical properties similar to that of other (as of yet unidentified) hemipteran JHs. In addition, we found that the synthesis of this product is sensitive to pH and buffer type; minimally or not affected by the absence of the CC; expressed at similar levels in days 5-30 postemergent adults; and inhibited or decreased in adults reared under low temperature-short day conditions.
4295665|To increase the efficiency of stable cell line establishment from primary ovarian cancer specimens, we simultaneously initiated cultures under multiple conditions, varying extracellular matrices and the inclusion of supplements (e.g., serum or serum albumin), while minimizing exposure to xenogeneic antigens (e.g., fetal calf serum). Primary cultures were initiated from 30 specimens; cell lines were established from 10 of these for a success rate of 33%. In some instances, multiple cell lines were established from the same specimen. Five lines were characterized extensively with respect to growth properties, antigen expression, and genomic alterations. Although these lines are all low-passage, marked heterogeneity was observed, even between lines derived from the same specimen. The culture approach outlined herein will facilitate generation of reagents useful for many aspects of ovarian cancer biology.
4294220|Primary cultures of Drosophila gastrula stage embryonic cells will divide and terminally differentiate into morphologically recognizable neurons and muscles. The phenotypically mixed nature of this primary culture system has made it difficult to effectively analyze various parameters of cell growth and differentiation for individual cell types. We report here a simple and economic method to separate early embryonic precursors for different cell types, using a shallow linear reorienting Ficoll gradient at unit gravity. The separated cells were collected into fractions, cultured, and analyzed for their growth and differentiation patterns. The larger and denser cells of the first fractions differentiated to yield pure neuronal cultures, as judged by morphologic, immunologic, and biochemical criteria. Cells in the last fractions differentiated into a predominantly muscle-enriched cell population, which also contained a very small percentage of neurons morphologically distinct from those in the pure neuronal fractions. Approximately 35% of the early gastrula stage embryonic cells differentiate into neuronal cells, and 65% of the non-neuronal lineage cells later develop into predominantly muscle population. The method is highly reproducible, can process
40928182|Stem cells isolated from dental pulp possess the capacity for self-renewal and the potential for multi-lineage differentiation. However, dental pulp stem cells have different characteristics in terms of their culture conditions. The success of stem cells culture is governed by its micro-environmental niche. Therefore, we studied the effects of culture niche on long-term expansion of dental pulp stem cells in terms of cell morphology, growth kinetics, senescence pattern, cell surface marker expression differentiation capacity, and seeding plating density of dental pulp stem cells in four different, widely used media composition Among the various basal media tested, -minimum essential media and knock outminimum essential media supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum were found to be the most optimal media composition in preserving the phenotypic characteristics and differentiation potential for prolonged periods as compared with DMEM-F12 and DMEM-LG. Plating density has been shown to affect overall yield. As a conclusion, the adoption of an appropriate culture system significantly improved cell yield, thus enabling the attainment of sufficient yields for therapeutic applications economizing in terms of cost of production and minimizing seeding cell density for maximum yield.
41512866|Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) derived from inner cell mass (ICM) of mammalian blastocyst are having indefinite proliferation and differentiation capability for any type of cell lineages. In the present study, ICMs of in vitroderived buffalo blastocysts were cultured into two different culture systems using buffalo fetal fibroblast as somatic cell support and Matrigel as synthetic support to obtain pluripotent buffalo embryonic stem cell (buESC) colonies. Pluripotency of the ESCs were characterised through pluripotency markers whereas, their differentiation capability was assessed by teratoma assay using immunocompromised mice. Cumulus ooccyte complexes from slaughter house-derived ovaries were subjected to in vitro maturation, in vitro fertilization and in vitro culture to generate blastocysts. Total 262 blastocysts were derived through IVEP with 11.83 % (31/262) hatching rate. To generate buESCs, 15 ICMs from hatched blastocysts were cultured on mitomycin-C-treated homologous fetal fibroblast feeder layer, whereas the leftover 16 ICMs were cultured on extra-cellular matrix (Matrigel). No significant differences were observed for primary ESCs colony formation between two culture systems. Primary colonies as well as passaged ESCs were characterised by alkaline phosphatase staining, karyotyping and expression of transcriptionbased stem cell markers, OCT-4 and cell surface antigens SSEA-4 and TRA-1-60. Batch of ESCs found positive for pluripotency markers and showing normal karyotype after fifteenth passage were inoculated into eight immuno-compromised mice through subcutaneous and intramuscular route. Subcutaneous route of inoculation was found to be better than intramuscular route. Developed teratomas were excised surgically and subjected to histological analysis. Histological findings revealed presence of all the three germinal layer derivatives in teratoma sections. Presence of germinal layer derivatives were further confirmed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for the presence of differentiation markers like nerve cell adhesion molecule, fetal liver kinase-1 and alpha-feto protein for ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm, respectively.
23279343|DM1 complicated with pregnancy is the cause of neonatal malformations and low-for-gestational-age neonates. With the use of the whole-embryo culture system, it has been demonstrated that high glucose causes embryo dysmorphogenesis. Previously, our group has found that spermidine or spermine addition reverts almost fully the severity and frequency of dysmorphogenesis, whereas the effect of arginine and putrescine it is only partial. A hypothesis for polyamine mechanism is the amelioration of oxidative stress caused by high glucose. The purpose of this work was to evaluate the effect of polyamines over the activity of scavenging enzymes and lipoperoxidation in whole-embryo rat in culture. Post-implantation (gestational day 10.5) rat embryos were cultured for 24 h in normal medium or hyperglycemic medium, alone or supplemented with L-arginine or polyamine. Embryos were recovered and visualized, and morphologic parameters were registered. Cultured embryos were homogenized, and superoxide dismutase and glutathione-reductase activities, as well as lipoperoxidation, were measured. The activity of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase were not affected by the treatment, but lipoperoxidation was increased in embryos cultured in hyperglycemic medium; spermidine or spermine supplementation restore lipoperoxidation to near-normal values, and putrescine and L-arginine reverts only partially the glucose effect. Taken together, these results pointed out that spermidine and spermine embryoprotection could be mediated by direct antioxidant activity. However, further studies are needed to support this hypothesis.
23353423|The role of progesterone (P 4 ) and prostaglandins (PGs) in bovine early embryonic development and embryomaternal crosstalk is almost unknown. Here, the in vitro steroidogenic (P 4 ) and prostanoid (PGE 2 and PGF 2 ) interactions between bovine embryos and luteal cells (LC) were evaluated. In two experiments, embryos (n=1.900) were either co-cultured with LC or cultured alone, from days 2 to 7 (day 0=in vitro insemination). LC were also cultured alone, and medium was used as a control, all groups being cultured either with or without oil overlay of culture medium. Oil overlay of culture medium significantly decreased the amount of P 4 , but not of PGE 2 and PGF 2 measured in culture medium. Embryos and LC had transcripts of genes coding for enzymes of the PGs (PTGS2, PGES, and PGFS) and P 4 (StAR, P450scc, and 3-HSD) synthesis pathways, and produced P 4 , PGF 2 , and PGE 2 into culture medium. Co-culture with LC exerted an embryotrophic effect, significantly increasing blastocyst yield and quality. This indicates a possible direct effect of LC in early embryo development. Embryos did not exert a luteotrophic effect upon LC. This may indicate that early embryos (until day 7) probably do not exert influence in LC main function. It is suggested that production of P 4 , PGE 2 , and PGF 2 by early embryos may be associated to autocrine signaling leading to events in development and to paracrine signaling in the endometrium leading to local uterine receptivity.
23481756|Mesenchymal stem cells have been increasingly introduced to have great potential in regenerative medicine, immunotherapy, and gene therapy due to their unique properties of self-renewal and differentiation into multiple cell lineages. Studies have shown that these properties may be limited and changed by senescence-associated growth arrest under different culture conditions. This study aimed to present the ability of some growth factors on human umbilical cord mesenchymal (hUCM) cells expansion and telomerase activity. To optimize hUCM cell growth, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) were utilized in culture media, and the ability of these growth factors on the expression of the telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) gene and cell cycle phases was investigated. TERT mRNA expression increased in the hUCM cells treated by EGF and FGF. So, the untreated hUCM cells expressed 30.497.15% of TERT, while EGF-treated cells expressed 51.8212.96% and FGF-treated cells expressed 33.7711.55% of TERT. Exposure of hUCM cells to EGF or FGF also promoted the progression of cells from G1 to S phase of the cell cycle and induced them to decrease the number of cells entering the G2/M phase. Our study showed that EGF and, to a lesser extent, FGF amplify the proliferation and expansion of hUCM cells.
23353421|Odontoblasts are a type of non-proliferating and terminally differentiated cells that play an important role in the pulpodentinal complex. Mouse dental papilla cells (mDPCs), which can differentiate into odontoblast-like cells in vitro, have a limited life span. We combined the traditional strategy of "Cre/LoxP-based reversible immortalization" with a tamoxifen-regulated Cre recombination system to generate a tamoxifen-mediated reversibly immortalized mouse dental papilla cell line, mDPCET. mDPCs were sequentially transduced with a floxed SV40 T antigen-TK (SV40Tag-TK) and an ERT2 Cre ERT2 -expressing plasmid. Clonal-isolated SV40Tag- and Cre-positive cells showed modified growth characteristics and a significantly extended life span. When mDPCET cells were treated with 4-hydroxytamoxifen, ERT2 Cre ERT2 translocated from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and caused the excision of SV40Tag-TK, which led to the reversion of mDPCETs. After the immortalization was reversed, the cells underwent replicative senescence and transitioned into a more differentiated state. Tamoxifen-mediated reversible immortalization, therefore, allows for the expansion of primary mDPCs, leads to the production of odontoblast-like cells that retain most odontoblast-specific properties, and can represent a safe and ready-to-use method due to its simple manipulation.
4295485|Inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) primers designed to anneal to microsatellites were used to obtain deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) fingerprint profiles to distinguish among 16 established insect cell lines derived from an assortment of lepidopteran, dipteran, and coleopteran species. Three different levels of cell line comparison were made: (1) between parents and their clones, (2) among cell lines derived from different tissues from the same species, and (3) among cell lines derived from different insect species. Of the 16 repeat oligonucleotide primers used in this study, nine primers generated several unique markers to distinguish between parental cell lines and their clones. Four of the 16 primers also generated DNA profiles with a number of unique bands, enabling the distinction among cell lines derived from specific tissues from the same species. In addition, ISSR-generated DNA profiles provided the greatest number of unique markers to distinguish easily among insect cell lines derived from different species.
4294647|We have constructed several plasmid expression vectors to express foreign genes in stably transformed insect cells. Unlike baculovirus-based expression vectors by which genes of interest are expressed transiently before lysis of the virus-infected cells, genes can be expressed continuously over many passages in a stable cell line. Furthermore, the function of a gene or genes expressed in a stable cell line from an insect-specific promoter that is constitutively expressed can be studied in the absence of virus infection and viral gene expression. In this study, we have expressed a novel, selectable marker gene, puromycin acetyltransferase, under the control of the Drosophila melanogaster hsp70 promoter or under the control of the AcMNPV ie-1 promoter which is active in Spodoptera frugiperda cells in the absence of virus infection. In addition, we have constructed expression vectors which coexpress two genes from separate promoters, the pac gene which confers resistance to puromycin and a baculovirus gene which inhibits apoptosis, derived from Orygia pseudotsugata nuclear polyhedrosis virus. Both genes were expressed in stable populations of S. frugiperda cells in the absence of continuous drug selection.
20616545|Experimentation with PBX1 knockout mice has shown that PBX1 is necessary for early embryogenesis. Despite broad insight into PBX1 function, little is known about the underlying target gene regulation. Utilizing the CreloxP system, we targeted a functionally important part of the homeodomain of PBX1 through homozygous deletion of exon-6 and flanking intronic regions leading to exon 7 skipping in embryonic stem (ES) cells. We induced in vitro differentiation of wild-type and PBX1 mutant ES cells by aggregation and retinoic acid (RA) treatment and compared their profiles of gene expression at the ninth day post-reattachment to adhesive media. Our results indicate that PBX1 interactions with HOX proteins and DNA are dispensable for RA-induced ability of ES to express neural genes and point to a possible involvement of PBX1 in the regulation of imprinted genes.
4294167|Primary cultures of immature rat Sertoli cells in plastic dishes are highly responsive to follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and its second messenger, cAMP, in metabolizing testosterone to estradiol, thus indicating the presence of an active, hormone-regulated aromatase cytochrome P450 (P450arom). However, in vivo studies indicated that P450arom is FSH-responsive only in very young animals, where the cells have not yet differentiated, but they lose this ability later on in development. Sertoli cells grown on Matrigel (a reconstituted basement membrane), laminin (a basement membrane component), or in bicameral chambers coated with Matrigel, assume structural and functional characteristics more similar to that of in vivo differentiated Sertoli cells. When the cells were cultured on laminin or Matrigel, the FSH- and cAMP-induced estradiol production was greatly reduced by 30 and 60%, respectively. When Sertoli cells were cultured in bicameral chambers coated with Matrigel, no induction of testosterone aromatization by FSH or cAMP was observed. However, FSH-induced cAMP formation was greater when the cells were cultured on basement membrane or in the chambers than on plastic dishes. These results suggest that culture conditions favoring the assumption by Sertoli cells of a phenotype closer that of the differentiated cells in vivo (tall columnar and highly polarized) suppress the induction of P450arom by FSH and cAMP. We then examined the mechanism(s) by which cell phenotype affects p450arom activity. Northern blot analyses of Sertoli cell RNA revealed one major band of 1.9 Kb and two minor bands of 3.3 and 5.2 Kb. However, there were no changes at the level of the expression of P450arom messenger RNA under the different culture conditions. No differences were found in P450arom enzymatic activity measured by the
4294643|We have examined the effect of alteration in cell shape on promoting differentiated morphology and physiology in cultured nonpigmented epithelial cells from the ciliary body. We have grown pure populations of nonpigmented cells on collagen gels released from the culture dish to create collagen rafts. Shortly after the gels were detached, the cells shrank in diameter and increased in height while they contracted the gel. Concurrently, the actin cytoskeleton reorganized to the cell cortex as found in vivo. After this differentiated morphology developed, large changes in intracellular Ca
40663810|In this report, we present the derivation and characterization of 15 hESC lines established at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium in collaboration with the Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Belgium, using surplus in vitro fertilization embryos and embryos carrying monogenie disorders donated for research. Four lines were derived from blastocyst-stage embryos presumed to be genetically normal, and 11 hESC lines were obtained from embryos shown to carry genetic mutations by preimplantation genetic diagnosis. All the lines express markers of pluripotency as determined by immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR, and formed teratomas when injected into SCID mice. All VUB hESC lines, except for VUB 17, are reported in the European hESC registry and are available upon request after signing a Material Transfer Agreement from the VUB (contact person: Prof. Dr. Karen Sermon; Karen.Sermon@uzbrussel.be).
24712902|Reconstructed myocardial tissue still does not have enough pulsatile contraction. It is well known that fetal and mature neonatal cardiomyocytes utilize glucose and lipid, respectively, as their energy substrates, and that cultured ones mainly use glucose in spite of their age comparable to neonate ones, probably due to insufficient supply of lipids from culture medium. In the present study, we compared 7 saturated, 6 monounsaturated, and 11 polyunsaturated fatty acid contents in cultured cardiomyocytes (Cul group) with those in fetal (Fet group, approximately 17 d after impregnation) and neonatal (Neo group, 9 d old) rats, where the age of the Cul cells were set nearly equal to the Neo ones. Saturated fatty acid contents in the Cul group were generally lower than those in the Fet group and were close to those in the Neo group, except for C12:0 of which content was highest in the Neo group. Monounsaturated fatty acid contents in the Cul group were generally lower than those in the Fet group but similar to or higher than those in the Neo group, except for C24:1n-9 of which content was again highest in the Neo group. In contrast, most of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) contents in the Cul group appeared lower than those in both the Fet and Neo groups, and differences in 5 of 10 detected PUFAs were significant between the Cul and Neo groups. The results suggest that PUFA contents in cultured cardiomyocytes might be insufficient to exert enough contractile ability. In conclusion, it could be necessary for cultured cardiomyocytes to uptake more lipid; PUFAs in particular.
20869534|The technique of interspecies somatic cell nuclear transfer, in which interspecies cloned embryos can be reconstructed by using domestic animal oocytes as nuclear recipients and endangered animal or human somatic cells as nuclear donors, can afford more opportunities in endangered animal rescue and human tissue transplantation, but the application of this technique is limited by extremely low efficiency which may be attributed to donor nucleus not fully reprogrammed by xenogenic cytoplasm. In this study, goat fetal fibroblasts (GFFs) were used as nuclear donors, in vitro-matured sheep oocytes were used as nuclear recipients, and a two-stage nuclear transfer procedure was performed to improve the developmental ability of goatsheep interspecies clone embryos. In the first stage nuclear transfer (FSNT), GFFs were injected into the ooplasm of enucleated sheep metaphase-II oocytes, then non-activated reconstructed embryos were cultured in vitro, so that the donor nucleus could be exposed to the ooplasm for a period of time. Subsequently, in the second stage nuclear transfer, FSNT-derived non-activated reconstructed embryo was centrifuged, and the donor nucleus was then transferred into another freshly enucleated sheep oocyte. Compared with the one-stage nuclear transfer, two-stage nuclear transfer could significantly enhance the blastocyst rate of goatsheep interspecies clone embryos, and this result indicated that longtime exposure to xenogenic ooplasm benefits the donor nucleus to be reprogrammed. The two-stage nuclear transfer procedure has two advantages, one is that the donor nucleus can be exposed to the ooplasm for a long time, the other is that the problem of oocyte aging can be solved.
40928179|Previous studies indicate that neural progenitor cells seeded in fibrin can differentiate into the glia cells and neurons. However, whether fibrin gel can induce differentiation of neural progenitor cells of spinal cord into motoneurons remains to be elucidated. In this study, we prepared a fibrin-based hybrid gel incorporated with laminin and fibronectin using rat fresh plasma as a cross-linking agent. The physical properties of this hybrid gel were examined with electron microscope, as well as its degradation and vascularization after subcutaneous transplantation with histological methods. Immunofluorescence stainings were used to study the proliferation and differentiation of the neural progenitor cells seeded in this 3D hybrid gel. The results indicate that such a hybrid gel possesses the unique physical characteristics, and the ability to promote both the proliferation and differentiation of the neural progenitor cells into neuron, including ChATpositive motoneuron. Thus, it is suggested that this hybrid gel might be suitable for a mimetic tissue transplant for central nerve system injury, such as injured spinal cord repair.
24712897|The ability of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to preserve cancer cells potentially constitutes the adverse effect of MSC-based cell therapy in the context of hematologic malignancy. In an effort to reverse this undesirable feature of MSCs, we manipulated human umbilical cord-derived MSCs (UC-MSCs) to express indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), an enzyme that induces immune suppression by inhibiting T cell proliferation and triggering apoptosis in immune cells. Cultures of human UC-MSCs were generated by plastic adherence method. Full-length cDNA of human IDO was cloned into adenovirus shuttle vector. Then, the recombinant virus harboring IDO gene was produced in 293 cells and used to infect UC-MSCs. Expression of IDO protein was detected within infected UC-MSCs, and accumulation of kynurenine was observed in the supernatant. Two human leukemia cell lines, Jurkat and HL-60, were cultured on the monolayer of native or infected UC-MSCs, respectively. It was observed that forced IDO expression abolished the anti-apoptotic effect of UC-MSCs on these leukemia cells and enhanced their proliferation inhibitory effect on activated human lymphocytes as well as leukemia cells. These results suggested that equipping MSCs with IDO could be one of the reasonable strategies to reverse their cancer-supportive effect unfavorable for clinical applications.
41318697|The Xenopus inner ear provides a useful model for studies of hearing and balance because it shares features with the mammalian inner ear, and because amphibians are capable of regenerating damaged mechanosensory hair cells. The structure and function of many proteins necessary for inner ear function have yet to be elucidated and require methods for analysis. To this end, we seek to characterize Xenopus inner ear genes outside of the animal model through heterologous expression in cell lines. As part of this effort, we aimed to optimize physical (electroporation), chemical (lipid-mediated; Lipofectamine 2000, Metafectene Pro), and biological (viral-mediated; BacMam virus Cellular Lights Tubulin-RFP) gene delivery methods in amphibian (Xenopus; A6) cells and mammalian (Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)) cells. We successfully introduced the commercially available pEGFP-N3, pmCherry-N1, pEYFP-Tubulin, and Cellular Lights Tubulin-RFP fluorescent constructs to cells and evaluated their transfection or transduction efficiencies using the three gene delivery methods. In addition, we analyzed the transfection efficiency of a novel construct synthesized in our laboratory by cloning the Xenopus inner ear calcium-activated potassium channel 1 subunit, then subcloning the subunit into the pmCherry-N1 vector. Every gene delivery method was significantly more effective in CHO cells. Although results for the A6 cell line were not statistically significant, both cell lines illustrate a trend towards more efficient gene delivery using viral-mediated methods; however the cost of viral transduction is also much higher. Our findings demonstrate the need to improve gene delivery methods for amphibian cells and underscore the necessity for a greater understanding of amphibian cell biology.
4295419| Given the utility of murine models and the physiological and pathological significance of the aortic endothelium, we developed a simplified, nonenzymatic method for isolation and culture of murine aortic endothelial cells (MAECs). Aortic explants were initially cultured on fibronectin-coated plastic. Murine aortic endothelial cells migrated from the explants and proliferated. This expansion allowed for cultures to be established from the aortas of one or three mice. Murine aortic endothelial cells were then purified from expanded cultures by fluorescence-activated cell sorting for the uptake of 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate-labeled acetylated low-density lipoprotein. The majority of the cells in expanded cultures were as positive as human umbilical vein endothelial cells labeled in the same way. The most positive half of the labeled MAEC population was placed back in culture, and the cells formed "cobblestone" monolayers at confluence. Smooth muscle -actin, which was present in aortic tissue and to a lesser extent in explant cultures before sorting, was not detected in selected MAECs. Western blotting and immunostaining also demonstrated the presence of the endothelial markers, platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1, factor VIII-related antigen, and Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin 1 binding. Murine aortic endothelial cells retained expected inflammatory functions: vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 protein was induced by bacterial endotoxin, and NO production was synergistically induced by the combination of endotoxin and interferon-. Our simple, efficient method will facilitate investigations of aortic endothelial cell function in vitro using murine models. 
20616589|Hepatocytes are routinely used to generate and identify drug metabolites and hepatic toxicity. Primary cultures of human hepatocytes are the model cell of choice for most of these pharmacological and toxicological studies. However, major problems are encountered with primary liver cell cultures: the dwindling availability of viable livers, hepatocytes having a limited life span, the loss of liver-specific functions in culture, and the donor to donor variability. These limitations have created a significant need for an in vitro hepatocyte system, which has both the potential for use in toxicological and pharmaceutical studies as well as clinical applications. Ectopic expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is one of the major strategies used to develop immortalized cells. Immortalization of primary cells using hTERT allows retention of the original cellular characteristics and functions and avoids some of the genetic and phenotypic instabilities associated with using known oncogenes. In the present study, we developed a cell line from human neonatal hepatocytes by transduction with a recombinant retrovirus expressing the hTERT gene. Induction of stable expression of hTERT in the neonatal cells led to immortalization of these cells. The cell line was cultured continuously for more than 25 passages, equivalent to >25 population doublings, whereas the parental cells senesced within five passages. Analysis of telomerase activity as measured by telomeric repeat amplification protocol assay indicated elevated levels of telomerase activity in immortalized cells compared to the parental cells. These immortalized human hepatocytes cells maintained a normal diploid karyotype as well as the gene expression profile similar to that of human normal neonatal hepatocytes. The data suggest that these immortalized cells preserved some of the biological characteristics of hepatic progenitor cells and might be useful as an in vitro model for pharmacological and toxicity studies.
41511621|Though mild hypothermia displays an optimistic alleviation of contractive failure in the ischemia/reperfusion myocardium, we still lacked answers to many questions about its potential mechanisms. Our hypothesis is that hypothermia (32C) induced in ischemia can ease mitochondrial injury resulting in improvement of myocardial contractility even under the condition of a normothermic reperfusion. Fifty newly born 1-2 d Sprague-Dawley rats were executed and the primary cardiomyocytes were obtained and cultivated in vitro. Myocytes were randomized into three groups and then subjected to ischemia either at 32C or 37C, both prior to under-going reperfusion at 37C. Contractility was presented as frequency and velocity. Ultrastructural alterations of cardio-myocytes and mitochondrion underwent semi-quantitative analysis with transmission electron microscopy and respiratory function of mitochondria was further assessed simultaneously. During cooling ischemia and following reperfusion, cardio-myocytes acquired a more immediate restoration to baseline level and had a significant difference as compared with those in normothermia (P<0.05). Furthermore, hypothermia preserved the ultrastructure of myocytes and mitochondrion after ischemia. However, measurement on Heart Injury Score and form factor revealed no differences after 2-h reperfusion either in hypothermia or normothermia. On the contrary, the surface area and respiratory function of mitochondrion in reperfusion differed significantly in both groups (P<0.05) which had an accordance with the variation on contractile performance. Hypothermia only induced in ischemia can bring contractility benefit even under a normothermia reperfusion in cultured cardiomyocytes
4295629|The wound healing response to injury can be affected by many factors such as cell migration and extracellular matrix elaboration. The objective of this study was to examine the serum- and age-dependent effects on cell migration, adhesion, and collagen expression by skin fibroblasts. Dermal fibroblasts were isolated and plated with and without serum for up to 7 d. Cell migration was determined by quantitative image analysis, adhesion was quantified using a centrifugation assay, and collagen expression was assessed by PCR and immunohistochemical staining. Both adult and fetal fibroblasts migrated significantly faster in serum-containing medium compared to serum-free medium. There was no significant difference in migration between the two cell types in either serum-containing or serum-free medium. There was no significant difference in adhesion in the presence of serum, although there was a greater fraction of adherent fetal skin fibroblasts than adult fibroblasts in serum-free medium. Moreover, the adherent fraction of fetal fibroblasts in serum-free medium was not significantly different from that in serum-containing medium, suggesting that fetal skin fibroblasts possess serum-independent adhesion properties. Collagen mRNA expression was significantly up-regulated in serum-free compared to serum-containing medium for both cell types. With respect to collagen immunohistochemistry, both dermal fibroblast populations exhibited greater type I collagen compared to type III collagen staining. Quantitative assessment of collagen staining indicated significantly enhanced type I collagen secretion in the presence of serum by fetal skin fibroblasts. These findings suggest that intrinsic cellular characteristics may govern the observed differences in adult and fetal wound healing.
20460115|A new cell line, designated IOZCAS-Ha-I, was initiated from the fat body of larvae of Helicoverpa armigera (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) in TNM-FH medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum. Spherical cells were predominant among the various cell types. The cell line showed a typical lepidopteran chromosome pattern ranging from 58 to 239 chromosomes in the majority of the cells. It was confirmed to have originated from the H. armigera by the DNA amplification--fingerprinting polymerase chain reaction (DAF-PCR) technique. The new cell line was only slightly susceptible to the multiple nucleocapsid nuclear polyhedrosis viruses (NPV) from H. armigera.
4295238|Until now researchers have used a monolayer of cultured cells to investigate cell motility toward an injured cell. However, we suspect that, when using this method, adjacent cells move to the free space due to relief of contact inhibition. The current study was designed to investigate the cell motility nearby an injured cell in varying cell connectivity. A lowpower laser beam was used to damage one cell selectively with the silver coating beads. After injury, we observed the cell motility in three different cell types: (1) those immediately adjacent to the injured cell, (2) those removed from the injured cell by interposition of another cell, and (3) those removed from the injured cell by free space. The cells that are in direct contact with the injured cell moved toward the injured cell within 1.5-3.0 h. Indirectly connected cells and cells with no contact, on the other hand, showed no significant movement toward the injured cell. This suggests that the cell motility toward the cell injury is not only due to relief of contact inhibition but might also be caused by cell-to-cell signaling via cell connection. The current method will provide a tool to create a cell injury without damaging adjacent cells.
41417655|The aims of this study were to analyze the spontaneous differentiation of human embryonic stem cells in vitro and in vivo and to investigate the influence of in vitro partial differentiation on in vivo teratoma formation in immunodeficient mice. Standardized methods are needed for long-term cultivation of undifferentiated stem cells and the multilineage cells that spontaneously differentiate from them. Accordingly, SA002 human embryonic stem cells were cultured on irradiated mouse embryonic fibroblasts cells, on irradiated human foreskin fibroblasts, or were cultured feeder-free using matrigel. Expression of marker protein transcripts was analyzed in undifferentiated and differentiated stem cells using real-time PCR, and both types of stem cells were transplanted subcutaneously into immunodeficient NOD. Cg-Prkdc scid 112rg tmlWjl SzJ mice to test for teratoma formation. Teratoma histology and expression profiles were subsequently characterized. Cells cultured using different conditions and morphologically undifferentiated cells had comparable marker expression profiles, showing high expression levels of markers for pluripotency and low-to-moderate expression levels of germ layer markers. Cells showing spontaneous differentiation that were cultured in feeder-free conditions in the absence of basic fibroblast growth factor demonstrated slight upregulation of sex determining region Y-box 17, connexin 32, and albumin expression at early time points, as well as expression of octamer-binding transcription factor 4, proteoglycan epitopes on podocalyxin (Trafalgar), and alkaline phosphatase. At later time points, expression of hepatocyte nuclear factor-3-beta, and hepatocyte nuclear factor-4-alpha and alpha fetoprotein was upregulated, whereas beta-3-tubulin, chemokine receptor, nestin, sex-determining region Y-box 17, and connexin 32 were downregulated. Expression of pluripotency markers remained high, and hematopoetic markers were not expressed. SA002 cells that showed spontaneous partial differentiation in vitro had a low teratoma formation capacity in vivo. Cells that were partially differentiated led to slower growing teratomas with more uniform histology.
23353413|Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have the ability to differentiate into all the three lineages and are an ideal starting material to obtain cells of desired lineage for regenerative medicine. Continued efforts are needed to evolve more robust protocols to obtain cells of desired lineages and in larger numbers. Also, it has now been realized that rather than transplanting fully committed cells differentiated in vitro, it may be ideal to transplant committed progenitors which retain the intrinsic ability to proliferate and also differentiate better into multiple lineages based on the in vivo cues. For cardiac regeneration, the desired progenitor is a multipotent cardiovascular progenitor which has the ability to regenerate cardiomyocytes, endothelial cells, and also smooth muscle cells. The present study was undertaken to carefully compare three widely used protocols to differentiate hESCs into cardiac progenitors, viz., spontaneous differentiation, differentiation by END-2-conditioned medium, and directed differentiation using growth factors followed by quantitative PCR to study the relative expression of early cardiovascular markers. hESC differentiation mimicked the early embryonic development, and the transition into mesoendoderm, mesoderm, early cardiac progenitors, and cardiac cells associated with spontaneous beating was clearly evident in all the three groups. However, compared to spontaneous and END-2-associated differentiation, directed differentiation led to several-fold higher expression of cardiac transcripts (>75-fold Nkx2.5 and >150-fold Tbx5) in response to the stage-specific addition of well-established cardiogenic inducers and inhibitors of specific signaling pathways. We propose to use tripotent cardiovascular progenitors derived by directed differentiation for further preclinical studies.
4294571|Study of the deep articular cartilage and adjacent calcified cartilage has been limited by the lack of an in vitro culture system which mimics this region of the cartilage. In this paper we describe a method to generate mineralized cartilagenous tissue in culture using chondrocytes obtained from the deep zone of bovine articular cartilage. The cells were plated on Millipore
4294270|This report demonstrates that the plasmids, pBLCAT2 and pBLCAT3, which are used widely for the preparation of promoter reporter gene constructs, exhibit cryptic promoter activity when expressed in embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells and their differentiated cells. The promoterless plasmid pBLGAT3 is used widely because it has two multiple cloning sites. We demonstrate that the activity of the cryptic promoter present in pBLCAT3 is increased dramatically by an enhancerlike region of the murine k-FGF gene. However, the basal cryptic promoter activity and the enhanced cryptic promoter activity can be silenced effectively by the insertion of three tandemly arranged polyadenylation sequences. To characterize the influence of the cryptic promoter in pBLCAT3, we tested its effects on two promoters. Our findings suggest that the cryptic promoter increases by several fold the expression of the reporter gene in pBLCAT2, which contains the thymidine kinase promoter. In contrast, the cryptic promoter present in pBLCAT3 does not seem to influence the expression of the k-FGF promoter. Last, we observed cryptic promoter activity when pBLCAT3 was expressed transiently in EC-differentiated cells. Together, our findings argue that transcription silencing sequences should be used when examining weak promoters in these plasmids, especially in combination with enhancers.
4294413|Endothelial cells are intimately involved in a variety of biological processes such as inflammatory disorders, wound healing, and tumor invasion. The finding of endothelial heterogeneity in various tissues has led to major efforts to isolate and culture microvascular endothelial cells in human and animal tissue. In this report we have used phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE)-labeled liposomes to fluorescently label the sheep lung microvasculature in situ. Using normotensive perfusion pressure, the PE-labeled liposomes did not extravasate into extravascular lung tissue. Mechanical and enzymatic digestion of the lung tissue demonstrated that the PE-labeled liposomes provided a stable label of the vascular lining cells during ex vivo processing. After digestion, the overwhelming majority of the fluorescent label appeared in cellular aggregates. Approximately 80% of these cells demonstrated an in vitro phenotype consistent with microvascular endothelium. A novel monoclonal antibody selective for sheep endothelial cells was developed to confirm the presence of lung endothelium in the fluorescently labeled cellular aggregates. We conclude that in situ fluorescence labeling of vascular lining cells provides an anatomic marker for relevant vascular lining cells and an opportunity to study these cells in vitro.
4295398|An elevation of the intracellular levels of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) induces terminal differentiation in neuroblastoma (NB) cells in culture; however, genetic alterations during differentiation have not been fully identified. To investigate this, we used Mouse Genome U74A microarray containing ~6000 functionally characterized genes to measure changes in gene expression in murine NB cells 30 min and 4, 24, and 72 h after treatment with cAMP-stimulating agents. Based on the time of increase in differentiated functions and their status (reversible versus irreversible) after treatment with cAMP-stimulating agents, the induction of differentiation in NB cells was divided into three distinct phases: initiation (about 4 h after treatment when no increase in differentiated functions is detectable), promotion (about 24 h after treatment when an increase in differentiated functions occurs, but they are reversible upon the removal of cAMP), and maintenance (about 72 h after treatment when differentiated functions are maximally expressed, but they are irreversible upon the removal of cAMP). Results showed that alterations in expression of genes regulating cell growth, proliferation, apoptosis, and necrosis occurred during cAMP-induced differentiation of NB cells. Genes that were upregulated during the initiation, promotion, or maintenance phase were called initiators, promoters, or maintainers of differentiation. Genes that were downregulated during the initiation, promotion, or maintenance phase were called suppressors of initiation, promotion, or maintenance phase. Genes regulating growth may act as initiators, promoters, maintainers, or suppressors of these phases. Genes regulating cell proliferation may primarily act as suppressors of promotion. Genes regulating cell cycle may behave as suppressors of initiation or promotion, whereas those regulating apoptosis and necrosis may act as initiators or suppressors of initiation or promotion. The fact that genetic signals for differentiation occurred 30 min after treatment with cAMP, whereas cell-cycle genes were downregulated at a later time, suggests that decision for NB cells to differentiate is made earlier and not at the cell-cycle stage, as commonly believed.
41318693|Chicken epithelial oviduct cells (COCs) are part of important supportive tissues in chicken reproductive organs responsible for secretion of the majority of chicken egg protein. In chickens, the biological process of adipocyte differentiation has been extensively studied in vitro using a number of cell types including a preadipocyte precursor cell line, a number of other undifFerentiated cell lines, and chicken embryonic fibroblasts. On the contrary, adipogenic differentiation in epithelial cells has not yet been achieved. In our study, we induced COCs to differentiate into adipocytes using chicken serum at concentrations of 5% and 10%. After a 24-h culture period at 37C in a humidified 5% CO atmosphere, oviduct cell morphology changed dramatically through formation of lipid droplets, observed by Oil Red O staining. Also, chicken serum strongly induced 3T3-L1 preadipocyte cell differentiation into adipocyte. In addition, mRNA expression levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (aP2), and CCAATenhancer-binding protein alpha were significantly increased 48 h after induction. These results suggest that COCs can be induced to differentiate into adipocyte-like cells. Moreover, through this study, we confirmed that chicken serum is an effective adipocyte differentiation-inducing agent. Our findings may provide a unique model for studying and applying chicken transdifferentiation and adipocyte differentiation.
24596454|Cloning mammals by somatic cell nuclear transfer entails the replacement of oocyte chromosomes with the nucleus of a somatic cell. A major step in this technique is to efficiently produce large batches of enucleated oocytes, a process that requires considerable micromanipulation skills and expensive equipments. Here, a simple, fast, and efficient method of manual oocyte enucleation was introduced that can be adopted in every laboratory with the minimum equipments. Common laboratory glass pipettes were pulled on the flame of a burner and then used for manual bisection or enucleation of sheep and goat zona-free oocytes by passing them through the discontinuous cutting border of culture medium and mineral oil. The described techniques showed a certain efficiency to conveniently bisect or enucleate large batches of sheep, and goat oocytes being pretreated with demecolcine. The method may be straightforward for simple manipulation of oocytes of other species and for development of automated cloning methods as well.
4294268|When primary cultures of hepatocytes are exposed to media containing fetal bovine serum (FBS) there is a rapid decrease in levels of tissue-specific mRNAs such as albumin mRNA. We used Northern blot analysis to examine mRNA levels in cultured hepatocytes, and characterized the factor in FBS that significantly reduces the steady state albumin mRNA level. Neonatal bovine serum or serum derived from platelet-poor calf plasma proved as potent as did FBS, but commercial bovine serum albumin did not exhibit this inhibitory activity. Inhibitory activity of FBS was not removed by moderate heat treatment, dialysis, or extraction with organic solvents. However, incubation of FBS with a highly anionic detergent such as 0.1% sodium dodecyl sulfate or N-lauroyl sarcosine, followed by extensive dialysis, resulted in sera that did not inhibit expression of albumin mRNA. These sera supported cell attachment and seemed non-toxic toward the cells. Ammonium sulfate fractionation of FBS showed the activity was present in the 45 to 70% fraction, and trypsin digestion destroyed the inhibitory activity. Gel exclusion chromatography gave a molecular weight of 60 000 to 70 000. Fractionation of serum proteins by DEAE-Sephacel or Cibacron blue-agarose showed enrichment for albumin in the most active fractions. Interestingly, metabolic labeling of secreted and cellular proteins with
4295502|Engineered muscle may eventually be used as a treatment option for patients suffering from loss of muscle function. The metabolic and contractile function of engineered muscle has not been well described; therefore, the purpose of this experiment was to study glucose transporter content and glucose uptake in engineered skeletal muscle constructs called myooids. Glucose uptake by way of 2-deoxyglucose and GLUT-1 and GLUT-4 transporter protein content was measured in basal and insulin-stimulated myooids that were engineered from soleus muscles of female Sprague-Dawley rats. There was a significant increase in the basal 2-deoxyglucose uptake of myooids compared with adult control (fivefold), contraction-stimulated (3.4-fold), and insulin-stimulated (threefold) soleus muscles (P = 0.0001, 0.0001, and 0.0001, respectively). In addition, there was a significant increase in the insulin-stimulated 2-deoxyglucose uptake of myooids compared with adult control soleus muscles in basal conditions (6.5-fold) and adult contraction-stimulated (4.5-fold) and insulin-stimulated (3.9-fold) soleus muscles (P = 0.0001, 0.0001, and 0.0001, respectively). There was a significant 30% increase in insulin-stimulated compared with basal 2-deoxyglucose uptake in the myooids. The myooid GLUT-1 protein content was 820% of the adult control soleus muscle, whereas the GLUT-4 protein content was 130% of the control soleus muscle. Myooid GLUT-1 protein content was 6.3-fold greater than GLUT-4 protein content, suggesting that the glucose transport of the engineered myooids is similar in several respects to that observed in both fetal and denervated skeletal muscle tissue.
20869524|Interactions between epithelium and mesenchyme are important for organ and tissue development. In this study, in order to mimic interactions between epithelium and mesenchyme during native tooth development, we constructed three-dimensional culture systems in vitro using a collagen membrane. Two types of collagen membrane-based in vitro culture systems were constructed in which dental epithelial and dental follicle cell lines were cultured. One co-culture method involved inoculation of one cell line into one side of the collagen membrane, and the other cell line into the opposite side of the membrane (sandwich co-culture). As a control, the second method involved culture of one of the cell lines on a culture dish and the second cell line on a collagen membrane, facing away from the first cell line (separate co-culture). The HAT-7 cells were also grown as a monolayer culture on collagen. Ameloblast differentiation in these cultures was investigated by analysis of the mRNA and/or protein expression of ameloblastin and amelogenin. Our results suggest that interaction of epithelial and mesenchymal cells via the extracellular matrix is important for tooth differentiation in vitro. Our culture system should be a useful method for investigation of epithelialmesenchymal interactions.
4294344| The secondary culture of non-transformed parenchymal hepatocytes has not been possible. STO feeder cell-dependent secondary cultures of fetal pig hepatocytes were established by colony isolation from primary cultures of 26-d fetal livers. The liver cells had the typical polygonal morphology of parenchymal hepatocytes. They also spontaneously differentiated to form small biliary canaliculi between individual cells or progressed further to large multicellular duct-like structures or cells undergoing gross lipid accumulation and secretion. The secondary hepatocyte cultures expressed alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), albumin, and -fibrinogen mRNA, and conditioned medium from the cells contained elevated levels of transferrin and albumin. STO feeder cell co-culture may be useful for the sustainable culture of hepatocytes from other species. 
4295116| Here, we describe assay systems that utilize serum-free defined media to evaluate capillary morphogenesis during human endothelial cell (EC) invasion of three-dimensional collagen matrices. ECs invade these matrices over a 1-3-d period to form capillary tubes. Blocking antibodies to the 2l integrin interfere with invasion and morphogenesis while other integrin blocking antibodies do not. Interestingly, we observed increased invasion of ECs toward a population of underlying ECs undergoing morphogenesis. In addition, we have developed assays on microscope slides that display the invasion process horizontally, thereby enhancing our ability to image these events. Thus far, we have observed intracellular vacuoles that appear to regulate the formation of capillary lumens, and extensive cell processes that facilitate the interconnection of ECs during morphogenic events. These assays should enable further investigation of the morphologic steps and molecular events controlling human capillary tube formation in three-dimensional extracellular matrices. 
4295254| The epithelial ovarian carcinomas arise in the ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) which is the mesothelial covering of the ovary. Studies of human OSE have been hampered by the small amounts and limited lifespan of this epithelium in culture. OSE cells expressing SV40 large T antigen (Tag) or the HPV genes E6 and E7 have increased growth potentials but lack some of the normal characteristics of OSE. In this study, we used conditional SV40 Tag expression to produce OSE cells with increased proliferative potentials but relatively normal phenotypes. Primary OSE cultures from three women, one of whom had a BRCA1 mutation, were infected with a temperature-sensitive Tag construct (tsTag), and from these, 28 monoclonal and four polyclonal lines were isolated. The effects of temperature changes were examined in two monoclonal and two polyclonal lines. At the permissive temperature (34 C), these cell lines underwent 52-71 population doublings (PD) compared to 15-20 PD for normal OSE. Nuclear SV40-Tag and p53 expression, demonstrated by immunofluorescence, showed that tsTag was uniformly present and biologically active in all lines. At 34 C, culture morphologies ranged from epithelial to mesenchymal. The mean percentage of cells expressing the epithelial differentiation marker, keratin, varied between lines from 20 to 97%. Collagen type III, a mesenchymal marker expressed by OSE in response to explantation into culture, was present in 24-43% of cells. At 39 C, tsTag was inactivated by 2 d while nuclear p53 staining diminished to control levels over 2 wk. Over 3 d, the cells assumed more epithelial morphologies, keratin expression reached 85-100% in all lines and collagen expression increased significantly in two lines. The cultures with the BRCA1 mutation expressed the most keratin and the least collagen III at both temperatures. As indicated by -galactosidase staining at pH 6.0, changes leading to senescence were initiated at 39 C by 6 h and were present in all cells after 24 h. However, the cells underwent 1-3 population doublings over up to 1 wk before growth arrest and widespread cell death, thus providing an experimental system where large numbers of OSE cells with different genetic backgrounds and growth potentials can be studied without the concurrent influence of Tag. 
4294292| Brain microvessel endothelial cells (BMEC) exhibit the tendency to migrate through 3.0-m pore semipermeable inserts and establish monolayers on both apical and basal filter surfaces. This can potentially lead to complications in accurately assessing a wide variety of physiologic parameters uniquely associated with these cells. To avoid this problem, we have explored growing BMEC on Transwell filters coated with hydrated collagen gels. BMEC seeded on such gels grow as a monolayer until confluency, but do not invade the subendothelial collagen matrix or the underlying support filter. Furthermore, BMEC grown in this manner exhibit biochemical, morphologic, and electrophysiologic properties reflective of the endothelial cells that comprise the blood-brain barrier in vivo. Although the collagen gel acts as an impenetrable barrier to BMEC, and thus ensures the growth of only a single layer of cells, it nevertheless can be infiltrated by monocytes that have been stimulated by a chemotaxin to undergo diapedesis. Thus, growing BMEC on collagen gel-coated Transwells has broad applications for the in vitro study of both blood-brain barrier physiology as well as the mechanisms underlying central nervous system inflammation. 
20869520|The present study aims to evaluate the hepatoprotective and antioxidant effects of Hibiscus sabdariffa extract on the carbon tetrachloride (CCl)-induced hepatocyte damage in fish and provide evidence as to whether it can be potentially used as a medicine for liver diseases in aquaculture. H. sabdariffa extract (100, 200, and 400 g/mL) was added to the carp primary hepatocyte culture before (pre-treatment), after (post-treatment), and both before and after (pre- and post-treatment) the incubation of the hepatocytes with CCl. CCl at 8 mM in the culture medium produced significantly elevated levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), glutamate oxalate transaminase (GOT), glutamate pyruvate transaminase (GPT), and malondialdehyde (MDA) and significantly reduced levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px). Pre-treatment and pre- and post-treatment of the hepatocytes with H. sabdariffa extract significantly reduced the elevated levels of LDH, GOT, GPT, and MDA and increased the reduced activities of SOD and GSH-Px in a dose-dependent manner; post-treatment did not show any protective effect. The results suggest that H. sabdariffa extract can be potentially used for preventing rather than curing liver diseases in fish.
4295117|The 75-kDa low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75
4295110| Skeletal muscle hypertrophy is promoted in vivo by administration of -adrenergic receptor (AR) agonists. Chicken skeletal muscle cells were treated with 1 M isoproterenol, a strong AR agonist, between days 7 and 10 in culture. AR population increased by approximately 40% during this treatment; however, the ability of the cells to synthesize cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) was diminished by twofold. Neither the basal concentration of cAMP nor the quantity of myosin heavy chain (MHC) was affected by the 3-d exposure to isoproterenol. To understand further the relationship between intracellular cAMP levels, AR population, and muscle protein accumulation, intracellular cAMP levels were artificially elevated by treatment with 0-10 M forskolin for 3 d. The basal concentration of cAMP in forskolin-treated cells increased up to sevenfold in a dose-dependent manner. Increasing concentrations of forskolin also led to an increase in AR population, with a maximum increase of approximately 40-60% at 10 M forskolin. A maximum increase of 40-50% in the quantity of MHC was observed at 0.2 M forskolin, but higher concentrations of forskolin reduced the quantity of MHC back to control levels. At 0.2 M forskolin, intracellular levels of cAMP were higher by approximately 35%, and the AR population was higher by approximately 30%. Neither the number of muscle nuclei fused into myotubes nor the percentage of nuclei in myotubes was affected by forskolin at any of the concentrations studied. 
4294102| Tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) and various interferons (IFN) have potent cytostatic or cytotoxic effects on a variety of human tumor-derived cell lines. Their effects on normal cells are more controversial. We have examined the effects of TNF and IFN- on the proliferation of WI-38 cells in a serum-free, growth factor-supplemented medium and in serum-containing medium. These cells respond to the combination of epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), and dexamethasone by DNA synthesis at a rate and extent equivalent to serum-stimulated cells. TNF has no effect on this growth factor-stimulated proliferation. However, it is stimulatory in serum-containing medium. IFN- inhibits DNA synthesis 60 to 70% in both young and senescent cells. TNF and IFN- together have a synergistic effect and completely inhibit growth factor-stimulated DNA synthesis in young cells. No synergism was observed with senescent cells. TNF stimulated an increase in the number of EGF specific binding sites two- to threefold in 24 h in both young and senescent cells. This seems to result from a proportional increase in a very high affinity binding site. IFN- has little or no effect on EGF binding either alone or in combination with TNF. 
40802389|Side populations of glioblastoma cells are resistant to chemotherapy basically due to ABCG2-mediated efflux of small-molecule drugs. The herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase/ganciclovir suicide gene therapy system is one of the best-characterized strategies for malignant tumors including glioblastoma. Since this system involves a small-molecule drug ganciclovir, we wonder if glioblastoma side population cells are able to "pump out" ganciclovir and thus resistant to this suicide gene therapy.By 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium assay, we found that side populations are more resistant to this system than non-side populations. By flow cytometry and competition assay, we found that ganciclovir is a substrate for ABCG2.
4295363| Female murine mammary tumor virus (MMTV)/new transgenic mice, expressing a wild-type rat neu oncogene driven by an MMTV promoter, develop focal mammary adenocarcinomas that are pathologically very similar to human breast tumors. Two new cell lines were established from a mammary tumor that arose in a female MMTV/neu transgenic mouse. One of these lines, mammary carcinoma from Neu transgenic mouse A (MCNeuA), has an epithelial morphology, is cytokeratin positive, and expresses high levels of the neu transgene. Karyotyping and comparative genomic hybridization analyses demonstrated genomic alterations in the MCNeuA cell line. The other line, N202Fb3, has a fibroblast morphology, is cytokeratin negative, and expresses the neu transgene at a very low level. This cell line also expresses smooth muscle -actin, suggesting that it is a myofibroblast line. The MCNeuA cell line is tumorigenic when injected into syngeneic MMTV/neu transgenic mice, with an in vivo doubling time of about 14 d. The rationale for establishing this tumor cell line was to provide a tumor transplantation system for rapidly assessing immunotherapeutic interventions before testing in the more cumbersome model of spontaneous tumor development in the MMTV/neu transgenic mice. Mice immunized with a Neu extracellular domain protein vaccine were protected against a subsequent inoculation of MCNeuA cells, indicating that this cell line will be useful for evaluating cancer vaccine strategies. This tumor cell line may also prove useful in studying the biological properties of the neu oncogene and its role in the malignant process. In addition, the tumor-derived fibroblast line may be useful for studying tumor-stromal cell interactions. 
4295084|Vitiligo is an enigmatic pigmentary disorder of the skin. Factors potentially involved in the progressive loss of mela-nocytes from the basal layer of the epidermis include genetically determined aberrancies of the vitiligo melanocyte. It follows that analysis of melanocytes cultured from vitiligo donors can contribute to a further understanding of the etio-pathomechanism. A setback for vitiligo research has been the limited availability of vitiligo-derived melanocytes. To overcome this limitation, we have generated a vitiligo melanocyte cell line according to a protocol established previously for the immortalization of normal human melanocytes. Vitiligo melanocytes Ma9308P4 were transfected with HPV16 E6 and E7 genes using the retroviral construct LXSN16E6E7. Successful transformants were selected using geneticin and subsequently cloned to ensure genetic homogeneity. The resulting cell line PIG3V has undergone more than 100 cell population doublings since its establishment as a confluent primary culture, whereas untransfected melanocytes derived from adult skin senesce after a maximum of 50 population doublings. Cells immortalized by this transfection procedure retain lineage-specific characteristics and proliferate significantly faster than parental cells. In this study, the phenotype of PIG3V resembled melanocytes rather than melanoma cells in culture. Tyrosinase was processed properly and mela-nosomes remained pigmented. Importantly, ultrastructural characterization of PIG3V cells revealed dilated endoplasmic reticulum profiles characteristic of vitiligo melanocytes. An explanation for this dilation may be found in the retention of proteins with molecular weight of 37.5, 47.5, and 56.5 kDa, as determined by gel electrophoresis of microsomal proteins isolated from radiolabeled cells.
4295311|Accumulating data implicate mycoplasma contamination as the single biggest problem in the culture of continuous cell lines. Mycoplasma infection can affect virtually every parameter and functional activity of the eukaryotic cells. A successfull alternative to discarding infected cultures is to attempt to eliminate the contaminants by treatment with specific and efficient antimycoplasma antibiotics. The addition of antibiotics to the culture medium during a limited period of time (1-3 wk) is a simple, inexpensive, and very practical approach for decontaminating continuous cell lines. Here, we examined the effectiveness of several antibiotic treatment protocols that we have employed routinely in our cell lines bank. On an aggregate, 673 cultures from 236 chronically mycoplasma-positive cell lines were exposed to one of the following five antibiotic regimens: mycoplasma removal agent (quinolone; a 1-wk treatment), enrofloxacin (quinolone; 1 wk), sparfloxacin (quinolone; 1 wk), ciprofloxacin (quinolone; 2 wk), and BM-Cyclin (alternating tiamulin and minocycline; 3 wk). The mycoplasma infection was permanently (as determined by three solid mycoplasma detection assays) eliminated by the various antibiotics in 66-85% of the cultures treated. Mycoplasma resistance was seen in 7-21%, and loss of the culture as a result of cytotoxically caused cell death occurred in 3-11% of the cultures treated. Overall, 223 of the 236 mycoplasma-positive cell lines could be cured in a first round of antibiotic treatment with at least one regimen. Taken together, 95% of the mycoplasma-infected cell lines were permanently cleansed of the contaminants by antibiotic treatment, which validates this approach as an efficient and technically simple mycoplasma eradication method.
4294256|A B-cell line was established from the liver of an 11-yr-old boy with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD). The cells were morphologically heterogenous, CD10 (CALLA) negative, and expressed several B-cell antigens, including CD23, in a manner reminiscent of lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) reported in the literature. However, the cells also showed expression of the CD77 antigen, carried a 14q32+ chromosomal anomaly, and showed IgM-kappa immunoglobulin isotype restriction immediately after their outgrowth in culture. These latter properties are typically associated with Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines rather than LCLs. Aberrant expression of the L60 antigen on these B-cells was found as additional evidence of altered growth regulation in these cells. EBV infection was demonstrated by the abundant expression of EBNA-2 and LMP viral antigens in culture. The cell line described should be useful in planning in vitro experiments designed to understand the factors that modulate the growth of PTLD in vivo.
4294375|Normal and neoplastic growth of epithelial cells depends on mutual interactions between epithelial and stromal cells. As a tool for the study of the underlying molecular mechanisms, we have developed temperature-sensitive, nontransformed cell lines derived from rat uterine epithelium and stroma by transfecting primary cultures with a temperature-sensitive mutant of the SV40 large T antigen. The epithelial and stromal cell lines obtained shared relevant morphological characteristics with the primary cells from which they were derived. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that the epithelial cell lines expressed the intermediate filament cytokeratin, whereas the stromal lines expressed the intermediate filament vimentin. Alkaline phosphatase activity was present in all cell lines examined. All cell lines were anchorage dependent and did not form foci. One epithelial cell line expressed oxytocin mRNA, a gene product recently shown to be highly expressed in vivo in the uterine epithelium at term. If grown on Matrigel, this cell line formed domelike structures, a further characteristic of its differentiated phenotype. In an attempt to reconstitute an endometrium in vitro, epithelial cells were seeded on top of a layer of stromal cells. Paraffin cross sections showed that this in vitro system consisted of a bilayer structure. Four to five cuboidal epithelial cells were typically anchored atop one stromal cell, forming an endometriumlike tissue. The present in vitro system should provide a useful model for further studies on endometrial functions and epithelial/stromal cell interactions at a molecular level.
4294588|Human umbilical cord vein endothelial cells can be induced to undergo morphogenesis (tube formation) by phorbol ester (TPA) when cultured on or in three-dimensional collagen gels. Induction of morphogenesis by TPA is accompanied by increased activity of the collagenase gene transcription factors, ETS1 and AP1, and the elaboration of collagenase by the endothelial cells. In the present study, we used endothelial cell elongation as a measure of morphogenesis and showed that oxidized low density lipoprotein (oxLDL) inhibited endothelial cell migration in monolayer cultures and TPA-induced morphogenesis in collagen gels in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, the inhibition was positively correlated with the extent of LDL oxidation. In contrast, native LDL stimulated cell migration and TPA-induced morphogenesis under the same culture conditions. However, in the absence of TPA, LDL showed no effect on EC morphogenesis. Further studies showed that inhibition of TPA-induced endothelial cell morphogenesis by oxLDL is correlated with suppression of the protein kinase C (PKC) and ETS1/AP1 activities. The results indicated that the inhibition of endothelial cell morphogenesis by oxLDL is probably mediated through inhibition of the TPA-activated PKC pathway and its subsequent suppression of the ETS1/AP1 activity. The results also indicated that EC migration can be mediated through PKC-dependent and independent pathways and only the former pathway can induce EC morphogenesis as well.
4294900|The lethal effects of crude venom prepared from the ectoparasitic wasp Nasonia vitripennis were examined with cultured cells from six insect and two vertebrate species. Venom caused cells from Sarcophaga peregrina (NIH SaPe4), Drosophila melanogaster (CRL 1963), Trichoplusia ni (TN-368 and BTI-TN-5B1-4), Spodoptera frugiperda (SF-21AE), and Lymantria dispar (IPL-Ldfbc1) to round up, swell, and eventually die. Despite similar sensitivities and overlapping LC
23353408|The present study was designed to investigate whether gonadotropins [follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH)] and buffalo follicular fluid (bFF) supplementation in maturation medium influences the transcript abundance of germ cell marker genes [maternal antigen that embryos require (MATER), Zygote arrest 1 (ZAR1), growth differentiation factor 9 (GDF9), and bone morphogenetic protein 15 (BMP15)] mRNA in buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) oocytes. Buffalo ovaries were collected from local abattoir, oocytes were aspirated from antral follicles (58 mm) and matured in vitro using two different maturation regimens, viz, group A: gonadotropin (FSH and LH) and group B: non-gonadotropin-supplemented maturation medium containing 20% buffalo follicular fluid (bFF). mRNA was isolated from immature (330) and in vitro matured oocytes from both the groups (A, 320; B, 340), and reverse transcribed using Moloney murine leukemia virus reverse transcriptase. Expression levels of MATER, ZAR1, GDF9, and BMP15 mRNA transcripts were analyzed in oocytes of both maturation groups as well as immature oocytes using real-time PCR. QPCR results showed that GDF9 and BMP15 transcripts were significantly (p<0.05) influenced with gonadotropins and bFF supplementation during in vitro maturation of buffalo oocyte; however, MATER and ZAR1 transcripts were not influenced with gonadotropins and bFF supplementation in vitro. These results indicated that the expression levels of MATER, ZAR1, GDF9, and BMP15 mRNA were varied differentially during in vitro maturation of buffalo oocyte and were found to be gonadotropins (FSH and LH) or bFF dependent for GDF9 and BMP15.
40205798|Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) is a key transcription factor for adipocyte differentiation. Preadipocyte differentiation into adipocytes from precursors in blood vessels is an important issue related to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; however, it has been poorly studied because of lack of experimental models. Our aim was to evaluate the potential of primary outgrowths derived from rat aortic rings as a model for studying the preadipocyte differentiation from aortic precursors induced by thiazolidinediones, which are exogenous ligands for PPAR. Cell outgrowths derived from rat aortic rings were cultured and incubated with rosiglitazone at 1-1,000 nM; presence of lipid droplets was evaluated by oil red O staining. Rosiglitazone at 100 nM exerted a clear adipogenic effect inferred from the cells filled with fine and medium size lipidic droplets; this effect was extreme at 1,000 nM with cells showing lipidic macrodroplets. These results showed that cultures derived from aortic rings are a useful model for studying arterial preadipocyte differentiation.
4294043|Monolayers of human proximal tubule (HPT) cells, when grown on permeable supports and mounted in Ussing chambers, spontaneously display a transepithelial potential difference (PD), short-circuit current (Isc), and transepithelial specific resistance (R
4295350|Squirrel monkeys are the most commonly used New World primates in biomedical research, but in vitro studies are restricted by the limited number of cell lines available from this species. We report here the development and characterization of a continuous, kidney epithelial cell line (SQMK-FP cells) derived from a newborn squirrel monkey. Karyotype was consistent with Bolivian squirrel monkey (submetacentric chromosome pair 15 and acrocentric chromosome pair 16). All cells examined were hyperdiploid with chromosome numbers ranging from 52 to 57. Ultrastructural analysis of SQMK-FP cells revealed the presence of cell junctions with radiating filaments, indicating desmosomes and numerous surface projections containing longitudinally oriented filaments typical of tubular epithelium. Biochemically, SQMK-FP cells exhibit glucocorticoid resistance typical of the squirrel monkey. Glucocorticoid receptor (GR) binding is low in SQMK-FP cells because of high expression of the FK506-binding immunophilin FKBP51 that inhibits GR binding. SQMK-FP cells constitute a tubular epithelial cell line that has biochemical properties characteristic of squirrel monkeys and represents an alternate cell model to B-lymphoblast SML cells to study the biology of the squirrel monkey in vitro.
23279452|B lymphoblastoid cell lines (B-LCLs) are generally established from B lymphocytes by infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). As their genomic structure is stable in culture, B-LCLs are a valuable resource for many types of analysis. The efficiency of establishing B-LCLs from freshly obtained blood samples from healthy individuals is almost 100 %; however, for blood samples stored inappropriately after collection or held in long-term storage as peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in liquid nitrogen, the efficiency of B-LCL establishment can be considerably lower. To date, we have established more than 550 B-LCLs from 685 PBMC samples that have been stored in liquid nitrogen for over 20 yr. The PBMCs were prepared from blood samples donated by individuals belonging to native minority ethnic groups in outlying regions of South America and elsewhere. The establishment of B-LCLs from this material is difficult, and failure results in the waste of valuable and rare samples. We sought to improve our success rate for establishing B-LCLs from these difficult and irreplaceable samples by a detailed examination of each step of the process. The analysis showed that two parameters were particularly critical to the success rate: the density of the PBMCs plated after EBV infection and the EBV titer. These observations shed light on cases where establishment of B-LCLs was hard due to the small number of PBMCs or damage to the cells.
40663757|Endothelial cells (ECs) from different vascular beds not only display common characteristics but are also quite heterogeneous in terms of expression and secretion of neuro-angiogenic factors, which may help explain some of their distinct physiological roles. We investigated by RTPCR the gene expression, by PC12 bioassay the neurotropic activity, and by ELISAs the levels of NGF and FGF-2 using conditioned medium collected from cultures of ECs derived from myocardial and cerebral capillaries. While NGF was expressed and released by both cell types, FGF-2 was expressed and released solely by the brain but not heart ECs. Oxygen-glucose deprivation (ischemic) insult blocked NGF secretion from heart and brain ECs and inhibited by 70% the secretion of FGF-2 from brain ECs. We propose that the differential expression of NGF and FGF-2 in heart and brain EC cultures reflect heterogeneity on demand of the microcapillary components and the surrounding microenvironment for a proper tissue-specific homeostasis.
4295364| Endothelial cell lines have been established from cells that were isolated from porcine yolk sacs from day 18 and day 22 embryos and propagated in vitro under various growth conditions. After expansion in vitro, the general properties of the cells proved similar for the different media used. The endothelial cells expressed cell surface receptors for acetylated low-density lipoprotein and also expressed cell surface-associated angiotensin-converting enzyme. The cells showed a characteristically high level of binding for Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin I and Dolichos biflorus agglutinin but did not bind significant amounts of Ulex europaeus lectin I. The cells expressed low but serologically detectable levels of Class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens but failed to bind antibodies directed against Class II MHC antigens. 51 integrins were weakly expressed, whereas vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (CD 106) and v3 integrins were not detected. Three-dimensional tube formation was readily observed in cultures grown on Matrigel and occurred even in uncoated plastic dishes in the absence of Matrigel. In contrast to most of the adult porcine endothelial cells, yolk sac-derived endothelial cells did not possess serologically detectable receptors for porcine growth hormone (GH), an observation consistent with the finding that GH did not increase the proliferative rate of these cells. Electron microscopic examination demonstrated the presence of Weibel-Palade bodies, tight endothelial cell junctions, and typical rough endoplasmic reticulum. Exposure of the cells to either concanavalin-A-stimulated porcine splenocyte culture supernatants or to human tumor necrosis factor  did not cause upregulation of VCAM-1 or Class II MHC antigens. Addition of porcine interferon- led to an increase in the level of expression of Class I MHC. Yolk sac endothelial cells from day 22 embryos showed a low but detectable level of expression of Class II MHC antigens, whereas the endothelial cells from day 18 embryos showed no expression of Class II antigens after interferon- stimulation. The cells maintained competence to develop vascular structures in vitro and could do so after coinjection with murine tumor cells into adult, immunocompromised mice. 
4295036|Cyclosporin A is routinely used in transplant therapy following allogeneic or xenogeneic tissue transplantation to prevent rejection. This immunosuppressive drug is also neurotoxic; however, its mechanisms of action for neurotoxicity are poorly understood. Undifferentiated and cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)-induced differentiated neuroblastoma (NB) cells were used as an experimental model to study the toxicity of cyclosporin A. Results showed that cyclosporin A promoted the outgrowth of neurites and inhibited the growth of undifferentiated NB cells. When cyclosporin A was added simultaneously with RO20-1724, an inhibitor of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase, or with prostaglandin E
41408865|An in vitro study is a powerful method for elucidating gene functions in cellular and developmental events. However, until date, no reliable in vitro transformation, cloning, or knockdown system has been reported for Drosophila cells, with the exception of S2 and Kc cells. In this study, we demonstrated that the piggyBac vector stably integrates donor DNA into ovarian somatic sheets derived from follicle stem cells. The transformed ovarian somatic sheet cells were easily cloned with a new piggyBac selection vector carrying enhanced green fluorescent protein and dihydrofolate reductase genes, egfp, and dhfr, respectively, in culture media containing methotrexate, an inhibitor of DNA synthesis. Donor egfp continued to be expressed at a high level in long-term culture. Furthermore, the translation of donor egfp was inhibited by treatment with double-stranded RNA derived from the target gene. The transfection and cloning methods mediated by the piggyBac vector would thus be useful for future analyses of gene functions in OSS cells and possibly be applicable to other Drosophila cell lines.
4295202| Conditions were developed to cryopreserve cells from pronase-dissociated atria and ventricles of eastern oysters (Crassostrea virginica). The effect of three concentrations (5, 10, 15%) of the cryoprotectants (dimethyl sulfoxide, glycerol, and propylene glycol), three thawing temperatures (25, 45, 75 C), and three cooling rates (slow, medium, fast) were compared. Cells were frozen at -80 C and plunged in liquid nitrogen. Thawed cells were seeded in 96-well plates and primary cultures were evaluated after 3 d by measuring the metabolic activity using a tetrazolium compound, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl) -2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, and by comparing the relative spreading of cells between treatments. The best conditions for freezing and thawing of cells for each cryoprotectant were selected and a final study was performed to compare cryoprotectants. For this final study, we measured the number of cells and their viability 3 d after thawing, in addition to determining cell metabolic activity and cell spreading. Primary cultures of cells frozen without cryoprotectant and of nonfrozen cells were used as controls in all studies. Atrial cells were best cryopreserved with glycerol at a concentration of 10%, a medium cooling rate, and thawing at 45 C. After thawing, atrial cells showed 53  5% of the metabolic activity, 84  5% of the number, and 92  2% of the viability of nonfrozen cells. For ventricular cells, 10% glycerol, a medium cooling rate, and thawing at 25 C yielded the best results. The thawed ventricular cells showed 83  5% of the metabolic activity, 91  5% of the number, and 96  2% of the viability of nonfrozen cells. 
24596459|One of the most important developmental modifications of the nervous system is Schwann cell myelination of axons. Schwann cells ensheath axons to create myelin segments to provide protection to the axon as well as increase the conduction of action potentials. In vitro neuronal systems provide a unique modality to study a variety of factors influencing myelination as well as diseases associated with myelin sheath degradation. This work details the development of a patterned in vitro myelinating dorsal root ganglion culture. This defined system utilized a serum-free medium in combination with a patterned substrate, utilizing the cytophobic and cytophilic molecules (poly)ethylene glycol (PEG) and N-1[3 (trimethoxysilyl) propyl] diethylenetriamine (DETA), respectively. Directional outgrowth of the neurites and subsequent myelination was controlled by surface modifications, and conformity to the pattern was measured over the duration of the experiments. The myelinated segments and nodal proteins were visualized and quantified using confocal microscopy. This tissue-engineered system provides a highly controlled, reproducible model for studying Schwann cell interactions with sensory neurons, as well as the myelination process, and its effect on neuronal plasticity and peripheral nerve regeneration. It is also compatible for use in bio-hybrid constructs to reproduce the stretch reflex arc on a chip because the media combination used is the same that we have used previously for motoneurons, muscle, and for neuromuscular junction (NMJ) formation. This work could have application for the study of demyelinating diseases such as diabetes induced peripheral neuropathy and could rapidly translate to a role in the discovery of drugs promoting enhanced peripheral nervous system (PNS) remyelination.
4295524|Mosquito densonucleosis viruses (MDVs) have the potential for use as biocontrol agents. To facilitate densovirus production, the Aedes albopictus mosquito cell line C6/36 was adapted to two commercially available serum-free protein-free media (SFPFM), Sf-900 II and Drosophila-SFM. Cells adapted more slowly to growth in Sf-900 II medium, but once adapted, they grew more rapidly and appeared healthier than cells growing in Drosophila-SFM. Cells that were adapted to growth in each of these SFPFM were tested for their ability to be transfected and infected with MDVs. The Sf-900 II-adapted cell line survived transfection and showed infection rates comparable with cells growing in L15 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Cells adapted to Drosophila-SFM were less infectable and did not survive transfection. Cells adapted to each of these SFPFM were adapted to growth in spinner flasks. Cells in Sf-900 II grew substantially better in spinner flasks than cells in Drosophila-SFM media. Cells grown in Sf-900 II could be frozen and, when thawed, could support the production of densonucleosis viruses in spinner flasks.
4294661|The study of in vitro cell transformation is valuable for understanding the multistep carcinogenesis of human cells. The difficulty in inducing neoplastic transformation of human cells by treatment with chemical or physical agents alone is due to the difficulty in immortalizing normal human cells. Thus, the immortalization step is critical for in vitro neoplastic transformation of human cells. We transfected a mutant p53 gene (
4294052|We have used enzymatic and immunomagnetic techniques for the physical separation of the basal and luminal epithelium of the human mammary gland. Immediately after tissue dissociation and cell sorting, we have examined the steadystate CK composition of these cells individually by direct two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of intermediate filament extracts. Our results demonstrate that cytokeratins typical of simple and stratified epithelial cells are simultaneously expressed by both mammary epithelial subclasses in vivo. Moreover, the entire spectrum of cytokeratins seen in vivo is also maintained in short-term cultures of human mammary epithelium. A comparison of the data obtained by direct cytokeratin analysis with published indirect immunolocalization studies is presented. The ability to isolate purified epithelial subsets from normal human breast tissue by a simple immunomagnetic procedure demonstrated here can facilitate the development of relevant model systems for studying the regulatory components in growth, differentiation and malignant transformation of the human breast.
4295578|We established an in vitro hepatocyte primary culture system from Oreochromis niloticus, a tropical fish species of great economical importance, and evaluated its ability to express albumin, a liver-specific protein, consistently for a period of 3 wk. Serum requirements for fish hepatocyte cultures were assessed. A one-step in situ perfusion of tilapia liver retrogradely followed by collagenase liver dissociation and subsequent washing produced nearly 90% homogenous viable hepatocytes, as shown by trypan blue exclusion test. Mixed primary monolayer and aggregate hepatocyte cultures achieved by 10% fetal calf serum medium supplements expressed consistent levels of albumin. The results of light and electron microscopy showed that the hepatocytes did not significantly proliferate (P < 0.05) but remained viable for at least 3 wk. The results of this study show that in vitro cultures of mixed primary hepatocyte monolayers and aggregates established from Nile tilapia may be useful models for studying transient cellular stress induction.
4295326|A cell line from Trichoplusia ni (TN-CL1) infected with the Autographa californica multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV-HPP) and a cell line from Helicoverpa zea (BCIRL-HZ-AM1) infected with the Helicoverpa zea single nucleopolyhedrovirus (HzSNPV/BrCL2) were subjected to ultraviolet-B (UV-B) irradiation at a predetermined level of exposure that would inactivate greater than 95% of the virus suspended in the liquid. The working hypothesis was that the homologous insect cells would utilize their inherent deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair mechanism(s) to prevent, repair, or at least mitigate the damaging effects of UV-B light on viral DNA synthesis. We attempted to determine this by using infected cells that were subjected to UV-B irradiation at different postinoculation periods under two experimental conditions of exposure: (1) shielded, and (2) nonshielded. Of the two cell lines infected with their respective homologous viruses, the virus from TN-CL1 cells was the least sensitive to UV-B light because the extracellular virus (ECV) and occlusion body (OB) levels of virus-infected TN-CL1 cells were higher than those of the virus-infected BCIRL-HZ-AM1 cells. Production of ECV and OB from both cell lines was lower in the exposed, nonshielded treatment than in the exposed, shielded treatment. However, AcMNPV-HPP was produced in enough quantity to indicate that TN-CL1 might impart a level of protection to the virus against UV light.
20869590|The present in vitro experiment was designed to test whether 48 h of pretreatment with glucocorticoids, cortisol, or dexamethasone (DEX), would affect basal and corticotrophin (ACTH) stimulated (24 h) cortisol secretion from primary cultures of pig adrenocortical cells. Cells were divided into six groups: control pretreatment with or without ACTH challenge, cortisol pretreatment with or without ACTH challenge, and DEX pretreatment with or without ACTH. The culture medium and cells were collected at the end of treatment. Cortisol concentration in medium was measured by radioimmunoassay, and protein content of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and key regulatory factors for steroidogenesis, including melanocortin type 2 receptor (MC2R), steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and cholesterol side-chain cleavage cytochrome P450 (P450scc), were detected by Western blot analysis. The results showed that glucocorticoid pretreatment did not affect cortisol secretion under basal condition without ACTH challenge, but significantly enhanced ACTH-stimulated cortisol secretion. Furthermore, the protein content of GR, MC2R, StAR, and P450scc was all increased in groups pretreated with glucocorticoids. These results indicate that adrenocortical cells pretreated with glucocorticoids display higher steroidogenic capacity under ACTH challenge, through the upregulation of GR and other steroidogenic regulatory factors.
40205792|Mitochondria are the bioenergetic and metabolic centers in eukaryotic cells and play a central role in apoptosis. Mitochondrial distribution is controlled by the microtubular cytoskeleton. The perinuclear aggregation of mitochondria is one of the characteristics associated with some types of cell death. Control of mitochondrial aggregation particularly related to cell death events is poorly understood. Previously, we identified ubiquitously expressed transcript (UXT) as a potential component of mitochondrial associated LRPPRC, a multidomain organizer that potentially integrates mitochondria and the microtubular cytoskeleton with chromosome remodeling. Here we show that when overexpressed in mammalian cells, green fluorescent protein-tagged UXT (GFP-UXT) exhibits four types of distribution patterns that are proportional to the protein level, and increase with time. UXT initially was dispersed in the extranuclear cytosol, then appeared in punctate cytosolic dots, then an intense perinuclear aggregation that eventually invaded and disrupted the nucleus. The punctate cytosolic aggregates of GFP-UXT coincided with aggregates of mitochondria and LRPPRC. We con elude that increasing concentrations of UXT contributes to progressive aggregation of mitochondria and cell death potentially through association of UXT with LRPPRC.
4294736|Several methods for isolation and cultivation of human corneal endothelial cells have been described during the last few decades. In contrast to the situation in vivo, the cultured cells show mitogenic activity but often lose their typical morphological appearance. In this paper, we describe a technique to isolate and cultivate morphologically unchanged endothelium from the human cornea. This method revealed different characteristics of endothelial cells according to their position within the human cornea. Endothelial cells isolated from the central part have a morphology similar to that of cells in vivo (i.e., they are densely packed and show no mitogenic activity). In contrast, endothelial cells derived from the peripheral part of the cornea are characterized by mitogenic activity but their cell-to-cell attachment seems to be less tight than in vivo. The significance of these two different endothelial cell types for wound healing in the human cornea is discussed.
4294444|When multiple types of cells from normal and diseased human skin are required, techniques to isolate cells from small skin biopsies would facilitate experimental studies. The purpose of this investigation was to develop a method for the isolation and propagation of three major cell types (keratinocytes, microvascular endothelial cells, and fibroblasts) from a 4-mm punch biopsy of human skin. To isolate and propagate keratinocytes from a punch biopsy, the epidermis was separated from the dermis by treatment with dispase. Keratinocytes were dissociated from the epidermis by trypsin and plated on a collagen-coated tissue culture petri dish. A combination of two commercial media (Serum-Free Medium and Medium 154) provided optimal growth conditions. To isolate and propagate microvascular endothelial cells from the dermis, cells were released following dispase incubation and plated on a gelatin-coated tissue culture dish. Supplementation of a standard growth medium with a medium conditioned by mouse 3T3 cells was required for the establishment and growth of these cells. Epithelioid endothelial cells were separated from spindle-shaped endothelial cells and from dendritic cells by selective attachment to Ulex europeus agglutinin I-coated paramagnetic beads. To establish fibroblasts, dermal explants depleted of keratinocytes and endothelial cells were attached to plastic by centrifugation, and fibroblasts were obtained by explant culture and grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) containing fetal bovine serum (FBS). Using these isolation methods and growth conditions, two confluent T-75 flasks of keratinocytes, one confluent T-25 flask of purified endothelial cells, and one confluent T-25 flask of fibroblasts could be routinely obtained from a 4-mm punch biopsy of human skin. This method should prove useful in studies of human skin where three cell types must be grown in sufficient quantities for molecular and biochemical analysis.
23279453|Embryo-derived cell lines are important in vitro models for investigating the molecular mechanisms directing embryonic tissue lineage segregation and maintenance. The bovine trophectoderm-derived CT-1 cell line has been widely used to identify regulatory mechanisms of interferon tau gene expression, and it possesses potential as a model for characterizing the gene regulatory network controlling trophoblast lineage differentiation and development. This functional potential, however, is severely limited as CT-1 cells are very recalcitrant to standard transfection methods. The focus of this study was to test the cationic lipitoid reagent as an effective transfection reagent for DNA plasmid delivery. Optimization of liptoid-based transfection of plasmid DNA resulted in 9% transfection efficiency averaged across entire CT-1 colonies, with many subregions of CT-1 colonies achieving transfection rates of 15%. These rates are a substantial improvement over near-zero efficiencies achieved using other standard transfection techniques. CT-1 cells were also successfully adapted to substrate-free culture for over 20 passages, eliminating the need to culture CT-1 colonies on feeder cells or matrix-coated cultureware. Together, these results increase the utility of the CT-1 cell line as an in vitro bovine trophoblast model and provide insight into overcoming DNA delivery difficulties in other cell lines not amenable to genetic manipulation.
4295594|The immortalized human breast epithelial cell line MCF-10F is an important tool for studies on experimental tumor-igenesis induced by drugs, transfected Ha-ras oncogene, and hormones. Considering that many relevant data have thus far been established only for MCF-10F cells cultivated on glass, and that there are data showing different cell death ratios for tumorigenic cells obtained from benzo[a]pyrene (BP)-transformed MCF-10F cells cultivated on plastic compared with glass, nuclear parameters estimated by image analysis and cell death ratios were compared for cells grown on plastic and glass substrates differing in chamber surface sizes and working culture medium volumes. It was concluded that for slides with a growth size equal to
4294741|Two regions of programmed cell death that occur in the mesoderm of developing chick wing buds were studied in vitro. The opaque patch (OP) and posterior necrotic zone (PNZ) were examined for the presence of internucleosomal DNA degradation and for rescue by protein synthesis inhibition, two defining characteristics of apoptosis. Agarose gel electrophoresis showed that DNA from OP and PNZ tissue was cleaved into nucleosome size pieces and this cleavage was prevented by inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide. Both regions showed rescue with cycloheximide as determined by the chromium release assay and examination of electron micrographs. Also, the permanence of basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) rescue in the OP and PNZ was examined using the chromium release assay. While rescue in the OP was found to be permanent, rescue in the PNZ only delayed death while FGF-2 was present in the culture medium. This research shows that death in the OP and PNZ exhibits internucleosomal DNA fragmentation and is prevented by inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide, biochemically characterizing this death as apoptosis. It also suggests that in vitro FGF-2 rescue is permanent in the OP but is merely a delay of cell death in the PNZ.
4295441|The main form of fibronectin (FN) encountered by tumor cells in vivo is cellular FN (cFN), which differs structurally and functionally from the commonly used plasma FN (pFN). We compared the effects of cFN and pFN on the ovarian carcinoma lines OVCAR-3 and SKOV-3 and on cultures of normal ovarian surface epithelium, which is the precursor of the epithelial ovarian carcinomas. Ovarian surface epithelial cells and SKOV-3 cells attached and spread faster on cFN than on pFN. On cFN, SKOV-3 migration was enhanced compared with pFN or plastic. In a matrigel transfilter Assay, cFN strongly inhibited SKOV-3 invasion, whereas pFN did not. In contrast to SKOV-3, OVCAR-3 cells adhered faster on FN than on plastic but did not discriminate between cFN and pFN, and they did not migrate or invade matrigel either with or without FN. In both carcinoma lines, proliferation was unaffected by either FN. The results show profound differences in the responses to cFN and pFN by two invasive ovarian carcinoma lines. Because cFN is the main type that cancer cells encounter in vivo, extrapolations from culture data to in vivo events should preferably be based on studies using this form of FN.
4295433|Under a strong magnetic field, the diamagnetic properties of biological cells modulate the behavior of the cells themselves, under conditions of both floating and adherence. The morphological effects of strong static magnetic fields on adherent cells are less well understood than the effects of magnetic fields on red blood cells. In the present study, a high-intensity magnetic field of 14 T affected the morphology of smooth muscle cell assemblies, and the shapes of the cell colonies extended along the direction of the magnetic flux. The phenomenon was most notable under magnetic fields of more than 10 T, where an ellipsoidal pattern of smooth muscle cell colonies was clearly observed. The ellipticity of the cell colony pattern with a 14-T magnetic field was 1.3, whereas that with a field of 0-8 T was close to a circle at about 1.0. The evidence that smooth muscle cells detect high-density magnetic flux and thus change their cell orientation was shown as a visible pattern of cellular colonies. The speculated mechanism is a diamagnetic torque force acting on cytoskeleton fibers, which are dynamically polymerizing-depolymerizing during cell division and cell migration.
4294280|Although estrogens have been shown to stimulate a variety of morphologic and biochemical changes in the uterus in vivo, no clear consistent demonstration of similar responses in vitro have been made; thus, a defined organ culture system using the immature mouse uterus was established to study the possibility of demonstrating estrogenic responses in vitro. Uterine tissue from immature outbred mice (17 to 24 days of age) were cut crosswise in
40205813|A novel three-dimensional (3D) skeletal muscle model composed of C2C12 mouse myoblasts is described. This model was generated by cultivating myoblasts in suspension using the rotary cell culture system (RCCS), a unique culture environment. Single-cell suspensions of myoblasts were seeded at 510/ml in growth medium without exogenous support structures or substrates. Cell aggregation occurred in both RCCS and suspension control (SC) conditions within 12 h but occurred more rapidly in the SC at all time intervals examined. RCCS-cultured myoblasts fused and differentiated into a 3D construct without serum deprivation or alterations. Syncitia were quantified at 3 and 6+ d in stained thin sections. A significantly greater number of syncitia was found at 6+ d in the RCCS cultures compared to the SC. The majority of syncitia were localized to the periphery of the cell constructs for all treatments. The expression of sarcomeric myosin heavy chain (MHC) was localized at or near the periphery of the 3D construct. The majority of MHC was associated with the large cells (syncitia) of the 6+-d aggregates. These results show, for the first time, that myoblasts form syncitia and express MHC in the presence of growth factors and without the use of exogenous supports or substrates. This model test system is useful for investigating initial cell binding, myoblast fusion and syncitia formation, and differentiation processes.
4294347|Intercellular adhesion molecule-1, a member of the immunoglobulin supergene family, is the ligand for the integrin lymphocyte function associated antigen-1. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and lymphocyte function associated antigen-1 binding interactions mediate leukocyte adherence and migration. Previous work has shown that the adherence of lymphocyte function associated antigen-1 is directed to the first immunoglobulinlike domain of the endothelial cell surface protein intracellular adhesion molecule-1. We have constructed a truncated intercellular adhesion molecule-1 gene encoding the first 185 amino acids from the amino terminus and overexpressed it in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein was purified from insoluble inclusion bodies and refolded into an active conformation by a denaturation/renaturation cycle. The identity of the protein was confirmed by microsequencing and by Western blot analysis using a polyclonal antibody to ICAM-1. We have demonstrated that this soluble region of the otherwise membrane-bound ligand is an inhibitor of Molt or HL-60 cell adhesion to cytokine-stimulated endothelial cells.
4295244| We studied the sensitivity of tumor cells to the induction of apoptosis by iron deprivation. Iron deprivation was achieved by the employment of a defined iron-deficient culture medium. Mouse 38C13 cells and human Raji cells die within 48 and 96 h of incubation in iron-deficient medium, respectively. On the contrary, mouse EL4 cells and human HeLa cells are completely resistant to the induction of death under the same experimental arrangement. Deoxyribonucleic acid fragmentation analysis by agarose gel electrophoresis as well as flow cytometric analysis after propidium iodide staining detected in 38C13 and Raji cells, but not in EL4 and HeLa cells, changes characteristic to apoptosis. The 38C13 cells, sensitive to iron deprivation, also displayed a similar degree of sensitivity to apoptosis induction by thiol deprivation (achieved by 2-mercaptoethanol withdrawal from the culture medium) as well as by rotenone (50 nM), hydroxyurea (50 M), methotrexate (20 nM), and doxorubicin (100 nM). Raji cells shared with 38C13 cells a sensitivity to rotenone, methotrexate, doxorubicin, and, to a certain degree, to hydroxyurea. However, Raji cells were completely resistant to thiol deprivation. EL4 and HeLa cells, resistant to iron deprivation, also displayed a greater degree of resistance to most of the other apoptotic stimuli than did their sensitive counterparts. We conclude that some tumor cells in vitro are sensitive to apoptosis induction by iron deprivation, while other tumor cells are resistant. All the tumors found to be sensitive to iron deprivation in this study (four cell lines) are of hematopoietic origin. The mechanism of resistance to apoptosis induction by iron deprivation differs from the mechanism of resistance to thiol deprivation. 
40802387|Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is a typical morphogen to regulate epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during embryonic development. Shh is also an indirect angiogenic agent upregulating other angiogenic factors, including angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1). Recent studies revealed that angiogenesis induced by Shh is characterized by distinct largediameter vessels with less branching. Ang-1 promotes blood vessel maturation, and angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) counteracts Ang-1 activity and regulates vascular branching. Thus, we hypothesized that Shh-induced angiogenesis is affected by expression of Ang-1 and Ang-2, and we investigated the regulatory system of angiopoietins by Shh in vitro. Shh enhanced Ang-1 expression but did not enhance vascular endothelial growth factor in fibroblasts.The upregulation of Ang-1 expression by Shh was significantly decreased by fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), a potent angiogenic factor. Furthermore, FGF-2 increased the expression of Ang-2 in endothelial cells. These findings suggest that Shh and FGF-2 regulate the expression balance of vascular morphogens Ang-1 and Ang-2 and are involved in angiogenesis.
24596448|Many of CNS diseases can lead to a great quantity of release of glutamate and the extreme glutamate induces neuronal cell damage and death. Here, we wanted to investigate the effects of Cymbopogon citratus essential oil and Ferula assa-foetida extracts treatment on glutamate-induced cell damage in a primary culture of rat cerebellar granule neurons. Cerebellums were collected from 7-d rat brains and cerebellar granule neurons were obtained after 8-d culture. CGN cells were treated with C. citratus essential oil and F. assa-foetida extracts at concentration of 100 g/ml before, after, and during exposure to 30 M glutamate. The cellular viability was evaluated by 3-(4, 5-dimethytthiazol-2-y1)-2, 5diphenyltetrazoliumbromide (MTT) staining. The flow cytometry assay was used to examine cell cycle and apoptosis. MTT assay showed a glutamate-induced reduction in cellular viability while treatment with C. citratus essential oil and F. assa-foetida extracts before, during, and after exposure to glutamate was increased. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that F. assa-foetida extracts treatment significantly (p<0.001) attenuated glutamate-induced apoptotic/necrotic cell death and the necrotic rate was decreased by C. citratus essential oil treatment compared to glutamate group, significantly (p<0.001). The results show that C. citratus essential oil and F. assa-foetida extracts display neuroprotective effects in glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. These extracts exert antiapoptotic activity in cerebellar granule neurons due to cell cycle arrest in G0G1 phase, which explain the beneficial effects of C. citratus essential oil and F. assa-foetida extracts as therapies for neurologic disorders.
4295397| Components of fetal calf serum (FCS) are known to contribute to growth and maintenance of cultured cells. Fetal calf serum supplementation of media also may contribute to the cytotoxicity of other substances to cells grown in vitro. Semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) enzyme, present in FCS, metabolizes primary amines and contributes to amine cytotoxicity in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). In cell culture experiments, the media used may greatly affect enzymic activities such as SSAO. In these studies, the SSAO activity in FCS, cultured rat aortic VSMC, and rat plasma was determined in the presence and absence of various culture media. Semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase activity in FCS (5-20 l) was significantly enhanced (~1.5- to 2-fold) in the presence of various culture media, with Dulbecco modified Eagle medium (DMEM), causing the greatest enhancement. Dulbecco modified Eagle medium enhanced the SSAO activity of cultured VSMC in two of the four passages but reduced activity in two passages. Activity in rat plasma was reduced by ~25% in the presence of DMEM. The concentrations of various media components, such as glucose, sodium pyruvate, pyridoxine-HCl, and L-glutamine, were not correlated with enhancement. This study identifies an important enhancement effect of culture media on the FCS enzyme, SSAO, although the media components responsible for the enhancement are yet to be identified. 
20616562|In this study, the levels of TNF- and its soluble receptors sTNF-Rp55 and sTNF-Rp75 were analyzed in cocultures of human colon carcinoma cell spheroids prepared from different grades of tumors with normal human colon epithelium, myofibroblast, and endothelial cell monolayers. Additionally, the influence of exogenously added rhTGF-1 (2 ng/ml) on the TNF- and sTNF-Rs levels was tested. Direct interactions of colon carcinoma spheroids with normal cells caused decreases in TNF- levels and normal cell-dependent changes in sTNF-Rs amounts as compared to normal cells cultured alone. The addition of rhTGF-1 to the cocultures caused a significant increase in TNF- levels with a simultaneous decrease in the amounts of both sTNF-Rs. During direct interactions of colon carcinoma cells with normal tissue, paracrine effects are very important. We showed that TGF-1 acts synergistically with TNF- and significantly limits sTNF-Rs shedding. Therefore, TNF-Rs bound to cellular membranes, but not their soluble forms, play an important role in tumor/normal cell interactions. TGF-1 and sTNF-Rs, in turn, may be valuable factors in colon cancer development and metastasis.
4295453|Previously our laboratory, and others, described an in vitro model for the study of fibroblast wound repopulation. The so-called punch-wounded, fibroblast-populated collagen lattice has been used extensively in tissue repair research. We now identify certain shortcomings with this model, which have led to its enhancement by the introduction of a provisional matrix fabricated in situ from fibrinogen and a-thrombin. In the previous model, fibroblasts repopulate the wound defect (WD) as a monolayer of cells and on reaching confluence, a process reminiscent of fibroplasia fills the wound space. The enhanced model, with fibrin acting as a provisional matrix, allowed fibroblasts to repopulate the WD as a three-dimensional network of cells that were morphologically different from cells migrating over the collagen substratum of the previous model. Fibroblast repopulation of the fibrin matrix was typically around double the rate of repopulation of the empty wound space. We propose this model as an enhanced, yet sufficiently reproducible, model for the study of fibroblast responses to tissue damage. It can be further enhanced by the addition of other cell types and matrix components.
40205914|Glycogen storage disease type II (GSDII) or Pompe disease is an inherited disease of glycogen metabolism caused by a lack of functional lysosomal acid -glucosidase (GAA). Affected individuals store glycogen in lysosomes resulting in fatal hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and respiratory failure in the most severe form. We investigated for the first time the use of lentiviral vectors to correct the GSDII phenotype in human and murine GAA-deficient cells. Fibroblasts from infantile and adult GSDII patients were efficiently transduced by a GAA-expressing lentiviral vector placed under the control of the strong MND promoter, leading to a complete restoration of enzymatic activity. We also developed a muscle-specific lentiviral vector based on the synthetic C5-12 promoter and tested it on deficient myogenic satellite cells derived from a GSDII mouse model. GAA was expressed as a correctly processed protein allowing a complete enzymatic and metabolic correction in myoblasts and differentiated myotubes, as well as a significant mannose-6-phosphate (M6P)-dependent secretion reuptake by naive cells. Transduced cells showed lysosomal glycogen clearance, as demonstrated by electron microscopy. These results form the basis for a therapeutic approach of GSDII using lentiviral vectormediated gene transfer into muscle stem cells.
4295598|Microgravity induces inflammatory responses and modulates immune functions that may increase oxidative stress. Exposure to a microgravity environment induces adverse neurological effects; however, there is little research exploring the etiology of these effects resulting from exposure to such an environment. It is also known that spaceflight is associated with increase in oxidative stress; however, this phenomenon has not been reproduced in land-based simulated microgravity models. In this study, an attempt has been made to show the induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in mice brain, using ground-based microgravity simulator. Increased ROS was observed in brain stem and frontal cortex with concomitant decrease in glutathione, on exposing mice to simulated microgravity for 7 d. Oxidative stress-induced activation of nuclear factor-kappaB was observed in all the regions of the brain. Moreover, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase was phosphorylated equally in all regions of the brain exposed to simulated microgravity. These results suggest that exposure of brain to simulated microgravity can induce expression of certain transcription factors, and these have been earlier argued to be oxidative stress dependent.
4295420|Optical measurements from epithelial cells grown on clear solid surfaces (e.g., coverslips, petri dishes) are often compared with other measurements (e.g., short-circuit current; I
24596444|Muscle-invasive bladder cancer is prone to metastasis without a standard organ preference. The current cell lines used to study bladder cancer have primarily been derived from individuals in Western populations, and no human bladder cancer cell line has been established from the Chinese population. A bladder cancer cell line was derived from a female Chinese patient with muscle-invasive bladder cancer, and these cells were then xenografted into the bladders of three nude mice. Five weeks later, these mice were killed to observe local invasion and distant metastasis. The metastatic tumors were also removed and analyzed to assess the metastatic mechanism. This bladder cancer cell line, named T921, was successfully established, as evidenced by karyotype and immunohistochemistry analyses. Multi-organ metastases were observed in all three of the nude mice 5 wk after the orthotopic transfer of the cell line. In addition, epithelialmesenchymal transition (EMT)-related genes were involved in the tumor metastases. The T921 bladder cancer cell line was successfully established, and EMT was observed to play a role in bladder cancer metastasis.
4295024|We assessed the potential role of all-trans-retinoic acid on the developing chick pancreas, specifically with regard to the proportions of insulin cells. The endodermal component of the dorsal pancreatic bud of 5-d-old chick embryos was cultured on Matrigel. Retinoic acid (10
40928185|We examined the morphological, phenotypic, and functional characteristics of human amniotic fluid mesenchymal stem cells (AF-MSCs) differentiated towards a Schwann cell lineage. Initially, we induced human AFMSCs into nestin-positive AF-MSCs. And then, these nestin-positive AF-MSCs were induced into floating neurospheres. After that, neurospheres were induced to differentiate into Schwann-like cells using glia growth factors. In comparison with AF-MSCs, nestin-positive AF-MSCs significantly increased the ratio of neurosphere formation and the percentage of nestin expression in the neurosphere. Differentiated AF-MSCs showed morphological changes similar to those found in Schwann cells. Expression of the Schwann cell markers was determined by immunocytochemical staining and western blotting. Furthermore, differentiated AF-MSCs could promote neurite outgrowth in co-culture with dorsal root ganglia neurons. These results suggest that conversion of human nestin-positive AF-MSCs into cells with Schwann-like cell characteristics is possible and that these cells may have the potential for future cellular therapy for peripheral neurological disorders.
4295144| The aim of this study was to develop immortalized cell lines from porcine uterus. Endometrial cells including luminal epithelium (LE), glandular epithelium (GE), stroma (ST), and myometrium (MYO) were enzymatically isolated from the uterus of a day 12 pregnant gilt. Primary cultures were immortalized by transduction with a retroviral vector containing the E6 and E7 open reading frames of human papillomavirus type 16 (LXSN-16E6E7) packaged by the amphotropic fibroblast line PA-317. Cells having integrated the vector were selected by resistance to the neomycin analog G418 (0.4-1.5 mg/ml). Surviving cells were maintained in complete culture medium containing G418 (0.1 mg/ml) and subcultured for 1 yr. Expression of the E7 protein was confirmed in all cell lines by Western blotting. Phase contrast microscopy revealed that LE and GE cells exhibited cobblestone morphology, whereas ST and MYO cells exhibited spindle-shaped morphology. The epithelial origin of LE and GE was confirmed by positive immunostaining for cytokeratin. Stromal and MYO cells were vimentin-positive, but cytokeratin-negative. The MYO cell lines were positive for smooth muscle -actin staining, whereas LE, GE, and ST cell lines were negative for -actin. Western blotting indicated that all cell lines expressed both estrogen and progesterone receptors, but only GE cells secreted uteroferrin (UF). Collectively, these porcine uterine cell lines provide an in vitro model for studying cell type-specific actions of hormones and cytokines, signal transduction pathways, cell-cell interactions, and gene expression. 
40663809|Human embryonic stem cells are pluripotent cells capable of extensive self-renewal and differentiation to all cells of the embryo proper. Here, we describe the derivation and characterization of three Sydney IVF human embryonic stem cell lines not already reported elsewhere, designated SIVFOOl, SIVF002, and SIVF014. The cell lines display typical compact colony morphology of embryonic stem cells, have stable growth rates over more than 40 passages and are cytogenetically normal. Furthermore, the cell lines express pluripotency markers including Nanog, Oct4, SSEA3 and Tra-1-81, and are capable of generating teratoma cells derived from each of the three germ layers in immunodeficient mice. These experiments show that the cell lines constitute pluripotent stem cell lines.
4294772|To study invasion of lung cancer in vitro a novel three-dimensional coculture assay consisting of living human tissues has been developed. Multicellular spheroids initiated from a new large-cell lung carcinoma cell line (GaL23), found to be invasive in immunodeficient mice, were confronted with precultured bronchial fragments derived from mucosal biopsies obtained during routine fiberoptic bronchoscopy. The bronchial fragments consist of a stromal core with scattered fibroblasts covered by a continuous surface epithelium resting on a basal lamina. During the first 2 wk of confrontation, a gradual retraction of the bronchial epithelium with subsequent adhesion of the tumor cells to the underlying basal lamina occurred. The following week, a limited invasion of tumor cells into the bronchial stroma was seen. To facilitate the entrance of tumor cells through the mucosal surface, the surface epithelium was removed prior to coculture by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) buffer treatment. Upon confrontation, GaL23 cells then rapidly attached to and migrated on the exposed basal lamina and an increasing number of tumor cells was seen in the stroma during the first week of culture. This model offers opportunities for studying mechanisms of lung cancer adhesion, migration, and invasion using human bronchial mucosa as the natural target tissue.
4294492|Lung cell culture may be useful as an in vitro alternative to study the susceptibility of the lung to various toxic agents. Lungs from female Wistar rats were enzymatically digested by recirculating perfusion through the pulmonary artery with a sequence of solutions containing deoxyribonuclease, chymopapain, pronase, collagenase, and elastase. Lung tissue was microdissected and resuspended and the cells obtained were washed by centrifugation. By this isolation method,
4294509| Epidermal cell proliferation and differentiation were investigated in vitro after exposure to the anionic surfactant sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Human skin organ cultures were exposed topically to various concentrations of SDS for 22 h, after which the irritant was removed. Cell proliferation was measured immunohistochemically by incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) into the DNA of cells during S-phase, while the expression of transglutaminase and involucrin were used as markers of differentiation. Cell proliferation was moderately increased at concentrations of SDS that did not affect the histomorphology (0.1% and 0.2% SDS). A marked increase of cell proliferation was observed 22 to 44 h after removal of SDS at a concentration (0.4%) that induced slight cellular damage. Exposure of human skin organ cultures to a toxic concentration of SDS (1.0%) led to decreased cell proliferation. Transglutaminase and involucrin were expressed in the more basal layers of the epidermis after exposure to 0.4% or 1.0% SDS. Moreover, intra-epidermal sweat gland ducts were positive for transglutaminase at these irritant concentrations. These in vitro data demonstrate that SDS-induced alterations of epidermal cell kinetics, as described in vivo are at least partly due to local mechanisms and do not require the influx of infiltrate cells. However, we were unable to relate the altered cell kinetics to the release of interleukin-l or interleukin-6. Furthermore, supplementation of the culture medium with 12-hydroxyeicosantetraenoic acid did not affect epidermal cell proliferation. Rabbit skin cultures appeared more sensitive to SDS than human skin. At nontoxic doses, the irritant induced an increase of epidermal cell proliferation, similar to that observed in human skin discs. 
40663806|Here, we describe the derivation of a novel human embryonic stem cell (hESC) line, Endeavour-2 (E-2), propagated on human fetal fibroblasts (HFF) in a serum-replacement media. The inner cell mass (ICM) was manually dissected from the blastocyst without using immunodissection and, therefore, antibodies from animal sources. A total of 20 embryos were thawed and cultured, eight embryos were hatched, and five ICMs were obtained. They were transferred onto UFF used as feeder layer, and one colony representing the initial cell proliferation of a new hESC line, E-2, was obtained. The newly emerged hESC colony was passaged first by physical dissection and subsequently by enzymatic dissociation. E-2 has been in culture for over 6 months and has been shown to possess typical features of a pluripotent hESC line including expression of stem cell surface markers (SSEA4, TRA-160, and integrin alpha-6), intracellular alkaline phosphatase, and pluripotency gene markers, OCT4 and NANOG. This hESC line shows lineage-specific differentiation into various representative cell types expressing markers characteristic of the three somatic germ layers under both in vitro and in vivo conditions. E-2 line shows a normal karyotype (46 XX) and has been successfully cryopreserved and thawed several times using slow-freezing procedures. E-2 adds to the repertoire of existing hESC lines for research and development purposes in the field of regenerative medicine.
4294514| The microfilamentous actin component of the cytoskeleton is crucial to endothelial angiogenesis and vascular permeability. Differences in actin cytoskeletal profiles in cultured human endothelial cells were explored: when first isolated, both primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and primary human placental microvascular endothelial cells (HPMEC) expressed F-actin, but not -actin or -smooth muscle actin. A similar endothelial actin profile was observed in cryo-sections of freshly delivered term umbilical cord and placenta. In subsequent cell culture, although the actin cytoskeleton of HUVEC remained unchanged, the actin profiles of HPMEC altered after the second passage with the induction of -smooth muscle actin expression, which was intercellularly heterogeneous and increased to 20% at P4. This behavior occurred in HPMEC monolayers cultured on a variety of extracellular matrices. Comparisons with a spontaneously immortalized human microvascular cell-line, HGTEN 21, revealed that in prolonged passage, both -smooth muscle actin and -actin were expressed, whereas HPMEC at P4 showed a lower level of -actin expression. Therefore, in comparison with large vessels, microvascular cells are more likely to dedifferentiate. This may reflect the ability of microvascular cells to remodel according to changing requirements for new vessel formation. In conclusion, passage of human microvascular endothelial cells, but not of larger vessel endothelial cells, alters the expression of actin isoforms. This may be important in relation to comparisons of in vitro and in vivo vascular permeability; higher passage microvascular endothelial cells should thus be used with caution in such studies. 
4295204| The present study was performed in four renal cell lines to evaluate their capability to: (1) produce and express transforming growth factor a (TGF), its respective receptor, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr) and the small G protein, RhoA, and (2) exhibit morphogenetic properties when grown on Matri-cell substrates. The cell lines were derived from normal (Madin-Darby canine kidney cells), embryonic (SK-NEP-1 and 293 cells), and cancerous (human renal adenocarcinoma cells) kidneys. TGF messenger ribonucleic acid, evaluated by a nonradioactive in situ hybridization technique, was found to be expressed in all the cell lines. Large amounts of TGF peptide were observed in all four cell lines, while EGFr was highly expressed only in cancerous ACHN and embryonic-tumor SK-NEP-1 cells. RhoA peptide was found in appreciable amounts in SK-NEP-1 and 293 cells (compared to the other two cell lines). The morphogenetic properties of the four cell lines were assessed, by culturing them on Matri-cell dishes: SK-NEP-1 cells alone were found to grow in three-dimensional structures forming clusters and worm-like cellular aggregates. This feature was displayed by SK-NEP-1 cells but not by the other three cell lines, and may be connected with the contemporary presence of RhoA, EGFr, and TGF found in significant amounts only in the SK-NEP-1 cell line. 
4294766| In this study, we describe the karyotypic changes associated with the spontaneous acquisition of tumorigenicity in an immortalized tumor bronchial cell line. Neoplastic transformation of the NL20 human bronchial epithelial cell line occurred after 3 yr in culture, and was associated with loss of chromosome 18 together with acquisition of multiple copies of 9q21.234. The nontumorigenic NL20 cell line had been established by transfection of human bronchial epithelial cells with the SV40 T antigen, and had retained a relatively stable karyotype after the first 32 passages in vitro. However, when cells from p184 were inoculated into nude mice, a transplantable tumor was obtained that was derived from a minor clone present in this otherwise stable line. Subsequent passaging of the NL20 cells in vitro did not yield further tumors, and the minor clone from which the tumorigenic NL20T cell line derived was no longer evident in NL20 cells by Passage 205. Furthermore, the original tumorigenic NL20T cells lost the neoplastic phenotype after 25 passages in vitro and reverted to the nontumorigenic karyotype observed at pl89. In contrast to the loss of the tumorigenic phenotype and karyotype, which occurred with in vitro passaging of the original tumor, when the NL20T cells were passaged in other nude mice, they continued to give rise to tumors with sevenfold amplifications of 9q sequences and loss of chromosome 18, and cells from the secondary tumors (NL20T-A cells) have maintained a stable karyotype and remain tumorigenic even after 64 passages in vitro. A mixture of 10% tumorigenic NL20T-A and 90% nontumorigenic NL20 cells formed tumors in athymic nude mice when cultured in vitro on fibronectin, but not on plastic; cytogenetic analysis demonstrated that the tumors and cell cultures were composed of tumorigenic NL20T-A cells, whereas cytogenetic analysis of cells cultured on plastic were identical to the nontumorigenic NL20 cells. These data support the hypothesis that neoplastic transformation in our original cell line arose from in vivo selection of a small mutant clone, which had arisen in culture and was subsequently selected in vivo but was lost with in vitro culture. 
4294531|The presence of optimal nutritional elements in cell culture medium is very important in studies of cultured cells. For this reason, several researchers have experimented with adding or increasing the concentration of one or more amino acids to the medium they were using to determine "essential" amino acids and optimal concentrations. We studied how leaving out one amino acid at a time from Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium would affect epidermal growth factor-induced DNA synthesis in primary hepatocytes of the rat. Our "modified" DMEM contained only eight amino acids: arginine, cysteine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and valine. Proline was found to be an essential amino acid in normal DMEM but not in the modified DMEM, and some other amino acids reduced DNA synthesis in this medium. This study showed that perhaps no single amino acid such as proline can be called "essential," but rather an optimal balance of amino acids is required for each major function of each cell type cultured.
20869561|Examine the feasibility of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from the cardiac ventricular slices of newborn (PP) SpragueDawley rats to identify a better substitute for single cardiac myocytes prepared using enzymatic treatment. High resistance seals (>1 G) were obtained from cardiac ventricle tissues prepared without using enzymatic treatment. Thereafter, cell-attached and whole-cell patch-clamp techniques were used on thin cardiac slices (200 m thick) in 2009 in the Institute of Molecular Medicine of Peking University. An averaged sodium current (n=11 cells) was recorded in the cell-attached mode, and this displayed features similar to those previously reported for isolated rat ventricular myocytes. The outward potassium current, hyperpolarization-activated cation channel or I f channel (HCN channel), and action potential were recorded in the whole-cell mode (n=2 cells), and the identical properties were observed from the cardiac slices. The cell-attached mode is stable and reliable for recording the ion current. The resting potential for cardiac slices measured using current-clamp recording in the whole-cell mode was 50 to 70 mV. The resting potential of cardiac slices has properties similar to those of enzyme-prepared cardiomyocytes, with the exception that it is positive. We achieved whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from cardiac slices and affirmed the feasibility and values of both cell-attached and whole-cell recording modes using this technique. Nevertheless, there remain difficulties and limitations associated with the application of whole-cell patch-clamping to cardiac slices, due primarily to the existence of large amounts of connective tissue even in newborn rats.
4295608| An immortalized human prostate stromal cell line (PS30) was previously established using recombinant retrovirus encoding human papillomavirus 16 gene products. In this study, we further characterize this stromal cell line for its potential use in a stromal-epithelial coculture model for prostate cancer prevention. Using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and immunocytochemistry, we examined expression of androgen receptor (AR), vitamin D receptor (VDR), prostate-specific antigen (PSA), transforming growth factor- (TGF-), and insulin-like growth factors (IGF) families and their receptors, metalloproteinases (MMP) MMP-2 and MMP-9, as well as the cells' ability to respond to the synthetic androgen R1881. The PS30 stromal cells do not express PSA, confirming their stromal origin. They are positive for both AR messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and protein; however, they do not respond to growth stimulation by the synthetic androgen R1881. The PS30 cells express mRNA for VDR, TGF-s, IGFs and their receptors, as well as the MMPs. Moreover, they produce significant amounts of TGF-1, TGF-2, IGFBP-3, and MMP-2 proteins. Our observations confirm the use of PS30 for the study of stromal-epithelial interactions in the modulation of prostate carcinogenesis. 
4295158|Prototype computer software for a Cell Culture Laboratory Management System (CCLMS) has been developed to relieve cell culture specialists of the burden of manual recordkeeping. Conventional data archives in cell culture laboratories are prone to error and expensive to maintain. The reliance upon cell culture to provide models for biochemical and molecular biological research serves to magnify errors at great expense. The CCLMS prototype encapsulates a modular software application that manages the many aspects of cell culture laboratory recordkeeping. A transaction-based database stores detailed information on subcultures, freezes and thaws, prints waterproof labels for culture vessels, and provides for immediate historical trace-back of any cultured cell line. Linked database files store information specific to an individual culture flask while removing redundancy between similar groups of flasks. A frozen cell log maintains locations of all vials within any type of cryogenic storage unit, locates spaces for newly frozen cell lines, and generates alphabetical or numerical reports. Finally, modules for maintaining cell counts, user records, and culture vessel specifications to support a comprehensive automation process are incorporated within this software. The developed CCLMS prototype has been demonstrated to be an adaptable, reliable tool for improving training, efficiency, and historical rigor for two independent cell culture facilities.
23481705|Simulated microgravity (SM) has been implicated in affecting diverse cellular pathways. Although there is emerging evidence that SM can alter cellular functions, its effect in cancer metastasis has not been addressed. Here, we demonstrate that SM inhibits migration, gelatinolytic activity, and cell proliferation of an A549 human lung adenocarcinoma cell line in vitro. Expression of antigen MKI67 and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) was reduced in A549 cells stimulated by clinorotation when compared with the 1g control condition, while overexpression of each gene improves ability of proliferation and migration, respectively, under SM conditions. These findings suggest that SM reduced the metastatic potential of human lung adenocarcinoma cells by altering the expression of MKI67 and MMP2, thereby inhibiting cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, which may provide some clues to study cancer metastasis in the future.
4295155|Confluent high-density cell cultures of A6 cells derived from adult male Xenopus kidney exhibit spontaneous dome-formation at 1 g. To determine whether this morphogenetic property is altered by gravity, we used a three-dimensional (3D) clinostat to subject the cells to simulated microgravity, and a centrifuge to subject them to hypergravity. We used the generation orbit control method as the new rotation control system of the 3D-clinostat, not the random method. The growth of A6 cells was significantly enhanced by hypergravity, but significantly reduced by simulated microgravity. Dome formation by A6 cells at high confluence was inhibited under simulated microgravity conditions, whereas hypergravity promoted dome formation and induced tubule morphogenesis, compared to the control at 1 g. These results indicated that changes in gravity influence the morphogenetic properties of A6 cells, such as dome formation and tubule morphogenesis. When dome formation by A6 cells at high confluence was induced spontaneously in the control 1 g culture, the gene expression of the HGF family of pleiotropic factors, such as HGF-like protein (HLP) and growth factor-Livertine (GF-Livertine), an epithelial serine protease of channel activating protease 1 (CAP1), and Na
20616561|Selective knockdown of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) has been recently shown to increase life long accumulation of bone and its ability to increase osteoblast lifespan. In order to determine how loss of PTEN function affects osteoblast differentiation, we created cell lines with stable knockdown of PTEN expression using short hairpin RNA vectors and characterized several clones. The effect of deregulated PTEN in osteoblasts was studied in relationship to cell proliferation and differentiation. Downregulation of PTEN initially affected the cell's attachment and spreading on plastic but cells recovered after a brief period of time. When cell proliferation was determined using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assays, we noticed a small but significant increase in growth rates with PTEN reduction. The size of individual cells appeared larger when compared to control cells. Differentiation properties of these osteoblasts were increased as evidenced by higher expression of several of the bone markers tested (alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, osterix, bone morphogenetic protein 2, Cbfal, osteoprotegerin, and receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand) and their mineralization capacity in culture. As stabilization of beta-catenin is known to be responsible for growth deregulation with PTEN loss in other cell types, we investigated the activation of the canonical Wnt pathway in our cell lines. Immunofluorescence staining, protein expression in subcellular fractions for beta-catenin, and assays for activation of the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling were studied in the PTEN downregulated cells. There was an overall decrease in -catenin expression in cells with PTEN knockdown. The distribution of -catenin was more diffuse within the cell in the PTEN-reduced clones when compared to controls where they were mostly present in cell borders. Signaling through the canonical pathway was also reduced in the PTEN knockdown cells when compared to control. The results of this study suggest that while decreased PTEN augments cell proliferation and positively affects differentiation, there is a decrease in -catenin levels and activity in osteoblasts. Therefore, at least in osteoblasts, -catenin is not responsible for mediating the activation of osteoblast differentiation with reduction in PTEN function.
23481752|The present study was conducted to see the in vivo developmental potency of caprine parthenogenetic embryos generated in a modified way. The good quality caprine oocytes were matured in presence of cytochalasin B (CCB) and then activated by 7% ethanol followed by 2 mM 6-dimethyl amino purine (6-DMAP) and embryo development was recorded. Early stage parthenogenetic embryos (two to four cells) were surgically transferred in recipients (10). The pregnancy diagnosis was done by nonreturn to oestrus, ultrasonography (USG), and progesterone estimation. The levels of progesterone were above normal values (1 ng/ml) of pregnancy and fall below the level of pregnancy just before returned to oestrus. Progesterone profile revealed that out of ten recipients (G1G10), four goats (G1, G2, G3, and G5) returned to oestrus after 437.29 (MeanSE) d of embryo transfer and six goats (G4, G6, G7, G8, G9, and G10) did not return to cycle even after 70 d of embryo transfer. In three recipients (G4, G5, and G6), the USG on day 40 revealed that there was fluid filled uterine body with solid fetus-like structure. These might be dead fetus and had started resorption. The progesterone profile also corroborated the assumption of pregnancy in these animals. Authors believe that this may be the first report on in vivo diploid parthenogenetic embryo development in caprine species.
4295105|The MTW9/PL cell line was established by our laboratory in culture from the carcinogen-induced hormone-responsive MT-W9A rat mammary tumor of a Wistar-Furth (W/Fu) rat. This tumor formed estrogen, androgen, and progesterone responsive tumors in W/Fu rats (Sirbasku, D. A., Cancer Res. 38:1154-1165; 1978). It was later used to derive the MTW9/PL2 cell population which was also estrogen-responsive in vivo (Danielpour, D., et al., In Vitro Cell. Dev. Biol. 24:42-52; 1988). In the study presented here, we describe serum-supplemented culture conditions in which the MTW9/PL2 cells demonstrate
4294516| The changes in cell size and total protein were determined for G1-arrested, contact-inhibited CV-1 cells infected with Simian virus 40 (SV40). The assays used were the Biorad total protein assays (Bradford and DC protein assays) on a standard number of cells, total protein as assayed by fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) and SR101 by flow cytometry, orthoganol (90) light scatter by flow cytometry, and direct microscopic measurement with an ocular micrometer. Uninfected CV-1 cells and two cell lines with variations in DNA content (diploid vs. tetraploid) were used as controls for the studies presented. The results demonstrated a 40-60% increase in total protein at 32 to 42 h postinfection. These increases were similar to values obtained as control cells progress through the cell cycle. At later times postinfection (>42 h), total protein decreased due to cellular changes resulting from viral replication and cell death. 
4295554| Retinoic acid (RA), bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), and the 205 mutant polyoma middle T antigen affect the expression of a common ensemble of proteins in HL-60 human myeloblastic leukemia cells. Each of these agents is known to be able to prime HL-60 cells and accelerate subsequently induced myeloid or monocytic differentiation and GO cell cycle arrest, suggesting that they have equal or identical cellular targets relevant to the early stages of inducing cell differentiation and G0 arrest. As a test of this possibility, a survey of protein expression changes induced by RA, BrdU, or 205 transfection was performed. Retinoic acid induced numerous changes within h. Bromodeoxyuridine caused larger numbers of changes, whereas 205 caused a more limited number. Among the hundreds of affected proteins detected, there were comparable numbers of up- or downregulated proteins. A small number changed between undetectable and detectable expression. The affected proteins were not restricted to a single functional class and included transcription factors, receptors, signaling molecules, cytoskeletal molecules, and effectors of various cellular processes such as deoxyribonucleic acid replication, transcription, and translation. The intersect of the sets of proteins affected by RA, BrdU, and 205 was identified to determine if these agents regulated a common subset of proteins. This ensemble contained the commonly upregulated proteins AF6, ABP-280, ENC-1, ESE 1, MAP2B, NTF2, casein kinase, IRF1, SRPK2, Rb2, RhoGDI, P47phox, CD45, PKR, and SIIIp15. The commonly downregulated proteins were SHC, katanin, flotillin-2/ESA, EB 1, p43/EMAPIIprecursor, Jab1, FNK. The composition of the ensemble suggested three apparent themes for cellular processes that were affected early. The themes reflected the ultimate fate of the treated precursor cells as a mature myeloid cell, namely a cell whose hallmarks are (1) motility to migrate to a target and phagocytize it, (2) inducible oxidative metabolism to reduce the target with Superoxide from a respiratory burst, and (3) biosynthetic slow down consistent with conversion from cell proliferation to quiescence. Interestingly, RA appears to induce aspects of an interferon-like response of potential significance as part of a biosynthetic slow down leading to cell cycle arrest. In conclusion, three biologically disparate ways to prime cells to differentiate were used to filter out a small ensemble of commonly regulated proteins that group as either microtubule associated, oxidative metabolism machinery, or effectors of cellular responses to interferon. 
4294459|Cell suspensions of human keratinocytes seeded onto cell culture inserts may undergo terminal differentiation in the absence of fibroblasts. Among the parameters that control these morphogenic events, exposure to air and the composition of the culture medium were investigated. In the latter case, three media were considered DMEM:Ham's F12, MCDB 153, and keratinocyte SFM medium at equivalent calcium (1.5 mM) and fetal calf serum (5%) concentrations. Immunochemical methods and transmission electron microscopy show that cells cultured in DMEM:Ham's F12 medium, and then raised at the air-liquid interface, form a basal layer plus suprabasal cell layers corresponding to the stratum spinosum, stratum granulosum, and stratum corneum. The suprabasal keratinocyte layers show morphologies that resemble intact skin in which cells are connected by desmosomes and contain intermediate filaments and keratohyalin-filaggrin granules. When the cultures are kept submerged, the keratinocytes show occasional keratohyalin granules and are connected by fewer desmosomes. Additionally, no proper stratum corneum is formed. In keratinocyte SFM medium and MCDB 153, cultures raised at the air-liquid interface are not able to form an epithelium of normal architecture and do not express terminal differentiation markers. Differentiation is initiated, however, since desmosomes and bundles of keratin filaments appear; on the other hand, filaggrin is not expressed even after 28 d in culture. Membrane-bound transglutaminase is expressed throughout the entire suprabasal compartment in MCDB153 and DMEM:Ham's F12 media but never appears in keratinocyte SFM medium. These studies show the relative independence of epidermal differentiation program to the composition (including the calcium concentration) of the media contacting the dermis and filling the extracellular space. Conversely, differentiation appears to depend on elements of basal medium and/or components synthesized by keratinocytes under the influence of the culture medium.
40205864|The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is essential in controlling the production of many proinflammtory cytokines, and its specific inhibitor can effectively block their production for treating human diseases. To effectively identify highly specific p38 inhibitors in vivo, we developed an ex vivo mouse blood cell-based assay by flow cytometry to measure the intracellular p38 kinase activation. We first attempted to identify the individual blood cell population in which the p38 kinase pathway is highly expressed and activated. Based on CD11b, combined with Ly-6G cell surface expression, we identified two distinct subsets of non-neutrophilic myeloid cells,
4294222|A spontaneously immortalized, yet non-tumorigenic rat ovarian surface epithelial (ROSE 199) cell line, deposits large amounts of extracellular matrix (ECM) in response to crowding. The characteristics and components of ROSE 199-derived cell-free ECM were compared after three different preparative techniques: treatment with 20 mM ammonium hydroxide, with 1% sodium deoxycholate, or by repeated freeze-thaws. The ECMs were analyzed by histochemistry, immunofluorescence, electron microscopy, and Western immunoblotting. Components of ROSE 199 ECM included laminin, fibronectin, and collagen types I and III. Even though ROSE 199 is an epithelial cell line, striated collagen fibers formed a major part of its matrix. Thus, ROSE 199 matrix consists of both basement membrane and stromal matrix components. This matrix supported the adhesion, spreading, and growth of several cell types without altering their morphology or growth pattern, and enhanced the attachment of some cell types that spread on plastic only with difficulty. Immunofluorescence, electron microscopy, and dry weight determinations indicated that a greater proportion of matrix was retained in preparations obtained by ammonium hydroxide or freeze thaw techniques than after sodium deoxycholate treatment. Ammonium hydroxide and freeze-thaw treated matrices were also superior to sodium deoxycholate preparations as evidenced by enhanced initial cellular adhesion and spreading compared to cells plated on plastic. Residual nuclear material did not seem to affect the biological activity of this matrix. ROSE 199 extracellular matrix provides a novel, complex substratum for cell culture and for studies of matrix functions and synthesis.
40205822|The hemolymph-derived
4295582|Bovine inner cell masses (ICM) cultured on fibronectin give rise to extensive cellular outgrowths containing endoderm. Peptides with the Glu-Ile-Leu-Asp-Val (EILDV) and Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) sequences inhibit cell migration on fibronectin by binding to the fibronectin-recognition site in several integrins. To identify integrins involved in endodermal cell outgrowth on fibronectin and vitronectin, the effects of the EILDV and RGD peptides were evaluated in vitro. In experiment 1, ICM were cultured on fibronectin in medium containing 0.5 or 1.0 mg/ml EILDV or RGD (or both). Compared with 0 mg/ml, 0.5 mg/ml EILDV suppressed (P < 0.10) outgrowth area overall, and 1.0 mg/ml EILDV reduced (P < 0.05) outgrowth area after 72 h of culture. Compared with 0 mg/ml, 0.5 and 1.0 mg/ml RGD reduced (P < 0.05) outgrowth area after 72 h of culture. Plasminogen activator activity in conditioned medium increased (P < 0.05) in 0.5 mg/ml RGD but decreased (P < 0.10) in 1.0 mg/ml RGD compared with 0 mg/ml RGD. In experiment 2, bovine ICM were cultured on vitronectin in medium containing 0.5 or 1.0 mg/ml RGD. Neither concentration of RGD (P > 0.10) affected the extent of cellular outgrowth on vitronectin. Bovine endodermal cell migration on fibronectin can be modulated by the RGD and EILDV peptides. Despite inhibition, neither peptide completely prevented outgrowth on fibronectin. In contrast, cellular outgrowth on vitronectin was unaffected by RGD. The persistence of cellular outgrowth on fibronectin and the absence of inhibition by RGD for ICM cultured on vitronectin suggests that bovine endodermal cells can use alternative cellular adhesion systems, such as nonintegrin receptors, during outgrowth.
20869549|There are many compounds that can and have been used as cryoprotectants including disaccharides such as trehalose. Many organisms in nature use trehalose to help protect themselves at colder temperatures. Trehalose has also been used to a limited extent for the preservation of mammalian cells and tissues, but mainly as a supplement to other cryoprotectants like dimethyl sulfoxide. Recently, the use of trehalose as the primary cryoprotectant has gained much interest because of its low-potential cytotoxicity. Trehalose does not readily pass through mammalian cells membranes and research has shown that it is most effective when present on both sides of the cell membrane prior to preservation. Different strategies for introducing disaccharide sugars into cells have been investigated with limited success. In this study, two separate strategies are investigated for the introduction of disaccharide sugars into cells. Electroporation using an electric pulse to create temporary holes in the membrane so that molecules could pass through and a transport peptide (Chariot) that covalently binds to the molecule of interest and then moves it across the membrane. Both strategies have the potential to load disaccharide sugars into cells at concentrations that would provide ample protection during preservation. In preparation for cryopreservation studies, smooth muscle cells that are difficult to cryopreserve using conventional preservation protocols were used to evaluate and compare the translocation potential of these two strategies using -galactosidase. Assessment of each loading strategy was done by measuring viability and the presence of -galactosidase inside the cells. The results indicate that both methods appear feasible as potential delivery systems and that treatment cytotoxicity can be minimized. The next step is definition of the best loading strategy to introduce trehalose into cells followed by preservation by freezing.
4295610|Glycolipids should have potential effects as antitumor agents. However, very few studies have examined this property of digalactosyl diacylglycerol (DGDG) and sulfoquinovosyl diacylglycerol (SQDG) on colon cancer cells. Cell viability was determined every 24 h with sodium 2-(4-iodophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-(2, 4-disulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium dye reduction assay up to 72 h. Alkaline phosphatase activity was measured for assessing cell differentiation. Apoptosis was tested with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis. Growth of Caco-2 cells was inhibited apparently at 48 h after addition of SQDG and at 72 h with DGDG. Alkaline phosphatase activity of Caco-2 cells obviously increased in combination with DGDG or SQDG and sodium butyrate (NaBT) at 72 h, indicating that DGDG and SQDG enhanced cell differentiation induced with NaBT. An increased enrichment factor was found when the cell was treated in combination with DGDG or SQDG and NaBT. These results strongly suggest that DGDG and SQDG should be considered as the leading compounds of potentially useful colon cancer chemotherapy agents when NaBT is combined.
4295437| Oviductal functions have been studied mainly in primary epithelial cell culture and organ culture. However, secretory cells and ciliated cells coexist in the epithelium, and the small size of the oviduct limits the sources of both epithelial and stromal cells. To circumvent the limits, we attempted to establish clonal cell lines from an oviduct of a p53-deficient mouse. An oviduct was enzymatically digested and cultured in medium containing 10% fetal calf serum supplemented with estradiol-17. Morphologically distinct clones (10 epithelial and 4 fibroblastic clones) were established, and all clones expressed estrogen receptor  and progesterone receptor. Expression of a mouse oviduct-specific glycoprotein gene as a marker of secretory cells was limited in one clone and was stimulated by estrogens and suppressed by progesterone. Expression of helix factor hepatocyte nuclear factor/forkhead homologue-4 gene as a marker of ciliated cells was limited in two clones and was suppressed by estrogens. The two genes were never coexpressed in any clones. The results strongly suggest that the oviductal epithelium consists of two functionally determined populations. To our knowledge, this is the first establishment of functional clonal cell lines of the oviduct and makes it possible to study independently two oviductal functions, secretion and ciliogenesis. 
41512867|The current study was conducted to evaluate the functions of -calpain (CAPN1), calpastatin, HSPs (heat shock proteins), and caspases during myogenesis and cell death induced by sodium azide (NaN) hypoxia. The cell samples were divided into three groups: satellite cells formed at confluent monolayer (stage 1 ), stage 1 cells fusion into myotubes on d eight post-differentiation (stage 2), and stage 2 cells treated with 1 mM NaN for 24 h (stage 3). Real-time RT-PCR showed that stage 2 cells had increased CAPN1, calpastatin, caspase 7, and CARD9 (Caspase activation and recruitment domain 9) mRNA expressions compared to stage 1 cells (*P< 0.05). By Western blotting caspase 3, caspase 7, caspase 8, and caspase 9 protein levels increased in cells at stage 2 compared to cells at stage 1 (*P< 0.05). Real-time RT-PCR showed that stage 3 cells had increased CAPN1, calpastatin, caspase 7, HSP70 (70 kDA heat shock proteins), and HSP90 (90 kDA heat shock proteins-alpha) and decreased CARD9 mRNA expression compared to stage 2 cells (*P< 0.05). Stage 3 samples had increase caspase 7 and caspase 12 activities compared to stage 2 samples, and by Western blotting protein levels of both HSP70 and HSP90 expressions, increased significantly under hypoxia condition (*P < 0.05). Here, we conclude that CAPN1, calpastatin, caspase 3, caspase 7, caspase 8, and CARD9 have important roles for satellite cell myogenesis; and that caspase 7, 12, HSP70, and HSP90 are involved in the process of apoptotic cell death under hypoxia conditions and we speculate that these proteins may be involved in early postmortem proteolysis and meat tenderization.
4294993| Among the three major mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades-the extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) pathway, the c-JUN N-terminal/stress-activated protein kinase (JNK/SAPK) pathway, and the reactivating kinase (p38) pathway-retinoic acid selectively utilizes ERK but not JNK/SAPK or p38 when inducing myeloid differentiation of HL-60 human myeloblastic leukemia cells. Retinoic acid is known to activate ERK2. The present data show that the activation is selective for this MAPK pathway. JNK/SAPK or p38 are not activated by retinoic acid. Presumably because it activates relevant signaling pathways including MAPK, the polyoma middle T antigen, as well as certain transformation defective mutants thereof, is known to promote retinoic acid-induced differentiation, although the mechanism of action is not well understood. The present results show that consistent with the selective involvement of ERK2, ectopic expression of either the polyoma middle T antigen or its dl23 mutant, which is defective for PLC and PI-3 kinase activation, or the 205 mutant, which in addition is also weakened for activation of src-like kinases, caused no enhanced JNK/SAPK or p38 kinase activity that promoted the effects of retinoic acid. However, all three of these polyoma antigens are known to enhance ERK2 activation and promote differentiation induced by retinoic acid. Polyoma-activated MAPK signaling relevant to retinoic acid-induced differentiation is thus restricted to ERK2 and does not involve JNK/SAPK or p38. Taken together, the data indicate that among the three parallel MAPK pathways, retinoic acid-induced HL-60 myeloid differentiation selectively depends on activating ERK but not the other two MAPK pathways, JNK/SAPK or p38, with no apparent cross talk between pathways. Furthermore, the striking ability of polyoma middle T antigens to promote retinoic acid-induced differentiation appears to utilize ERK, but not JNK/SPK or p38 signaling. 
4294867| A fluorometric assay for determining endothelial cell numbers based on the endogenous enzyme acid phosphatase is described. In preliminary studies, three substrates-p-nitrophenyl phosphate, 4-methylumbelliferyl phosphate, and 2'-[2-benzthiazoyl]-6'-hydroxy-benthiazole phosphate (AttoPhos)-were compared with respect to their kinetic, optimum assay conditions, sensitivity, and detection limits. Only AttoPhos was found to have a high degree of sensitivity, reliability, and reproducibility for measuring both high and low cell numbers in the same plate. In subsequent experiments, assay conditions were validated for measuring endothelial cell density in response to basic fibroblast growth factor and fumagillin. Furthermore, the AttoPhos assay revealed a linear correlation between acid phosphatase activity and cell number in many cell types, including BALB/3T3, CH0-K1, A431, MCF7, 2008, SK-OV-3, T47-D, and OVCAR-3. This assay is potentially valuable for use in many in vitro systems in which the quantitation of cell density and proliferation is necessary. The practical advantages of AttoPhos assay for measuring endothelial cell numbers include (1) nonradioactivity, (2) simplicity, (3) economy, (4) speed of assessment of proliferation of large number of samples, and (5) amenability to high-throughput drug screening. 
4294855|A novel continuous cell line, designated BC3c, was established from a surgical biopsy of an invasive solid transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder derived from an 82-yr-old Caucasian female. BC3c cells were near-triploid bearing multiple structural and numerical chromosome anomalies. The epithelial origin of the cancer cells was indicated by the expression of cytokeratins 8 and 19 as well as by the absence of mesenchymal markers. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction-fragment length polymorphisms and single-strand conformation polymorphism mutation detection assays did not reveal any mutations in H-ras codon 12 and K-ras codons 12 and 13. In addition, no mutation in specific hot-spot codons of the p53 gene and no accumulation of the p53 protein were observed. BC3c cells grew rapidly in vitro, even in the absence of exogenous growth factors, because they were found to stimulate their growth in an autocrine manner. BC3c cells were found to express the epidermal growth factor-receptor (EGF-r) abundantly, but in contrast to other established bladder cancer cell lines, human recombinant epidermal growth factor inhibited the cells' proliferation in vitro. These features render the newly established bladder cancer cell line BC3c a useful tool for further experimentation.
40205929|The aim of this work was the establishment and characterization of porcine aortic endothelial cell cultures with prolonged lifespan. Endothelial cells where isolated from porcine thoracic aorta and established in primary culture; after sub cultivation, the cells showed typical morphology of endothelial phenotype with cobblestone appearance and growth in monolayer; they were positive against anti-CD31 and anti-CD54 immunostaining and Ac-LDL-Dil uptake. The cells were able to migrate in culture and showed a normal growth curve. The phenotype of our in vitro model of endothelial cells was stable through subcultivation; so, it should be a valuable tool for diverse studies of the endothelial response against physiological and pathological stimulus, particularly it could be useful to study interactions of endothelium with pathogenic bacteria causing diseases in pigs, as they are difficult to study in vivo.
4294513|The phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (160 nM) and the secondary bile acid, deoxycholic acid (50  M) stimulated DNA synthesis in quiescent primary epithelial cells from the normal mouse colon as measured by autoradiographic analysis of [
4294263|P19 embryonal carcinoma cells were differentiated via embryolike aggregates (embryoid bodies) into spontaneously beating myocytes. During the whole process of differentiation the functional expression of cardiac-specific receptors and ionic channels was characterized by measuring the chronotropic reactivity, action potentials, and ionic currents in response to various cardioactive drugs. Positive chronotropic effects obtained at different maximal effective concentrations of adrenoceptor-mediated agonists indicated differential adrenoceptor expression during the in vitro development of cardio-myocyte-like cells. No cardiac-specific response was obtained with the muscarinic cholinoceptor agonist carbachol. Single beating cells were enzymatically isolated and investigated by the patch-clamp technique. Pacemaker action potentials similar to those of embryonal cardiomyocytes exhibited amplitudes ranging from 50 to 85 mV. The action potentials were synchronous to the mechanical contractions and, comparable to the chronotropic effects, were modulated by BayK 8644, isradipine, and adrenaline. The functional expression of L-type Ca
20869566|Bone repair is a major concern in reconstructive surgery. Transplants containing osteogenically committed mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) provide an alternative source to the currently used autologous bone transplants which have limited supply and require additional surgery to the patient. A major drawback, however is the lack of a critical mass of cells needed for successful transplantation. The purpose of the present study was to test the effects of FGF2 and FGF9 on expansion and differentiation of MSCs in order to establish an optimal culture protocol resulting in sufficient committed osteogenic cells required for successful in vivo transplantation. Bone marrow-derived MSCs cultured in MEM medium supplemented with osteogenic supplements for up to three passages (control medium), were additionally treated with FGF2 and FGF9 in various combinations. Cultures were evaluated for viability, calcium deposition and in vivo osteogenic capacity by testing subcutaneous transplants in nude mice. FGF2 had a positive effect on the proliferative capacity of cultured MSCs compared to FGF9 and control medium treated cultures. Cultures treated with FGF2 followed by FGF9 showed an increased amount of extracted Alizarin red indicating greater osteogenic differentiation. Moreover, the osteogenic capacity of cultured cells transplanted in immunodeficient mice revealed that cells that were subjected to treatment with FGF2 in the first two passages and subsequently to FGF9 in the last passage only, were more successful in forming new bone. It is concluded that the protocol using FGF2 prior to FGF9 is beneficial to cell expansion and commitment, resulting in higher in vivo bone formation for successful bone tissue engineering.
4295129|Though one prominent theory of atherogenesis involves free-radical oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) within the vessel wall by one of the vascular cell types, the mechanism for cell-mediated LDL oxidation remains unclear[snl]. In these studies we examined the effects of media phenols, thiols, and metals on endothelial cell-mediated oxidation. We found that cell culture media such as Dulbecco modified Eagle medium and minimal essential medium are unable to support cell-mediated oxidation of LDL because they contain high concentrations of phenol red (PR) and tyrosine, both of which strongly inhibit cell-mediated oxidation. Ham's F-10, a commonly used medium for cell-mediated oxidation experiments, is also not entirely appropriate, as it contains both PR and cysteine. Cysteine is not critical for endothelial cell-mediated oxidation, but does increase oxidation of LDL in the absence of cells. Finally, of utmost importance to cell-mediated oxidation was the presence of either micromolar concentrations of Fe(II) or physiological concentrations of holo-ceruloplasmin, the protein which carries copper in plasma. An appropriate culture medium for use in cell-mediated oxidation experiments should thus contain either micromolar concentrations of Fe(II) or physiological concentrations of holo-ceruloplasmin, and should be prepared without PR, cysteine, or large concentrations of tyrosine, all of which are shown here to inhibit endothelial cell-mediated LDL oxidation. These results are consistent with a mechanism of cell-mediated oxidation involving Fenton-type chemistry and redox cycling of the metal.
4295039|The ascites of a 78-yr-old Japanese woman with cholangiocarcinoma was used for a primary culture. An established new cell line (designated TK from the Japanese description of cholangiocarcinoma; Tankan-gann) showed conspicuous tumor marker production. A high level of circulating serum tumor markers; carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9, 32,000 U/ ml; CA50, 6900 U/ml; and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), 300 ng/ml (on an average from
4294980|The effects were measured and compared of three nonselective cysteine cathepsin inhibitors (leupeptin, trans-Epoxy-succinyl-L-Leucylamido(4-guanidino)-butane (E-64), and
4294737|Argon ion laser irradiation of L929 cells transiently inhibits both entry into and passage through mitosis without affecting clonogenic survival. Anaphase mitotic figures virtually disappear from irradiated cell monolayers although prophase + metaphase mitotic figures can still be identified. The total number of mitotic figures does not change significantly and time-lapse video recording shows that cells do not enter mitosis following irradiation. This effect is dependent on light dose within the
23353398|Embryonic cells are very robust in surviving dissection and culturing protocols and easily adapt to their in vitro environment. Despite these advantages, research in the olfactory field on cultured embryonic olfactory neurons is sparse. In this study, two primary rat olfactory explant cultures of different embryonic d (E17 and E20) were established, comprising epithelium and bulb. The functionality of these neurons was tested by measuring intracellular calcium responses to cAMP-inducing agents forskolin (FSK) and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX) with fluorescence microscopy. For E17, the responsive cell fraction increased over time, from an initial 3% at the 1 d in vitro (DIV) to a maximum of 19% at 11 DIV. The response of E20 neurons fluctuated over time around a more or less stable 13%. A logistic regression analysis indicated a significant difference between both embryonic d in the response to FSK + IBMX. In addition, of these functional neurons, 23.3% of E17 and 54.3% of E20 cultures were responsive to the odorant isoamyl acetate.
4295057|A recombinant AcMNPV containing the green fluorescent protein (gfp) gene under the polyhedrin promoter (polh) was used to investigate the expression of the gfp gene as well as the production of recombinant extracellular virus in 14 continuous insect cell lines, including Heliothis virescens (BCIRL-HV-AM1), Helicoverpa zea (BCIRL-HZ-AM1), Anticarsia gemmatalis (BCIRL-AG-AM1), Trichoplusia ni (TN-CL1), Spodoptera frugiperda (IPLB-SF21), Spodoptera exigua (BCIRL/ AMCY-Se-E1 and BCIRL/AMCY-Se-E5), Bombyx mori (BMN), Sf9 (a clone of IPLB-SF21), and five cell line clones of BCIRL-HV-AM1. The susceptibility of the cell lines to the recombinant virus (AcMNPV.GFP) was ascertained by calculating the mean percentage number of green light-emitting cells as well as by TCID
4295368|Lingual epithelial cells, including those of the taste buds, are regularly replaced by proliferative stem cells. We found that integrin 
20616584|A new cell line from the neonate larvae of Aedes aegypti (L) mosquito was established and characterized. The cell line at the 50th passage (P) level consisted of three prominent cell types, i.e., epithelial-like cells (92%), fibroblast-like cells (7%), and giant cells (1%). Karyological analysis showed diploid (2n=6) number of chromosomes in >75% cells at P-50. The growth kinetics studied at 52nd passage level showed approximately tenfold increase in cell number over a 10-d study period. The species specificity studies using DNA amplification fingerprinting profile analysis using RAPD primers demonstrated 100% homology with the host profile showing the integrity of the cell line. Electron microscopy revealed the absence of mycoplasma or other adventitious agents. The cell line supported the multiplication of seven arboviruses, i.e., Chikungunya (CHIK), Japanese encephalitis, West Nile, dengue 2 (DEN-2), Chandipura, vesicular stomatitis, and Chittoor viruses. The cell line did not replicate Ganjam and Kaisodi viruses. CHIK virus yield in the new cell line was approximately 3log and 0.5log 50% tissue culture infective dose (TCID)/mL higher than Vero E6 and C6/36 cell lines, respectively. In the case of DEN-2 virus, it yielded 1log TCID/mL higher than Vero E6, but lesser than C6/36 cell line. Due to its high susceptibility to a broad spectrum of viruses, the new cell line may find application in virus isolation during epidemics and in antigen production.
41408880|Interleukin-1 (IL-1) induces the expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) implicated in cartilage and joint degradation in osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Polyoxypregnane glycoside (PPG), active compound was identified from Dregea volubilis extract by chemical analysis, shown to exert chondroprotective effects in cartilage explant models. However, no studies have been undertaken for the molecular investigation of whether PPG constituents protect the human articular chondrocyte (HAC). In the present studies, HAC was co-treated with IL-1 and PPG. The expression of MMPs, type II collagen, phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and NF-kB signaling pathway were determined by Western immunoblotting. PPG (6.25-25 M) decreased the IL-1-induced HA release from chondrocyte to culture medium. The mode of action of PPG was likely mediated through inhibiting expression of MMP-1, -3 and -13 in the medium, which was associated with the inhibition of mRNA expression. PPG had no effect on IL-1-induced phosphorylation of MAPK pathway. Conversely, PPG decreased phosphorylation of IkB kinase and IkB degradation. Taken together, these results indicate that PPG may inhibit cartilage degradation in OA and may also be used as nutritional supplement for maintaining joint integrity and function.
40802391|Colonies of rhesus monkey embryonic stem cells (rhESC; cell line R366.4) have been described before to show a spatially ordered process of epithelial-mesenchymal transition in vitro. In the present investigations, we have studied variables of culturing conditions which influence the reproducibility of the formation of crater-like ingression centers in the colonies. Critical parameters are found to be age and density of mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) feeder cell layers, the mode of mitotic inactivation of the MEFs (mitomycin C, or irradiation), and the mode of rhESC isolation during subculturing (enzymatic/mechanical cell cluster isolation; type of enzyme). The described culturing system appears to offer a reproducible in vitro model potentially useful for studies on cellular processes involved in gastrulation in the primate.
4295407|Antibacterial proteins are produced in the reproductive tracts of some insect species. The advent of a pupal ovarian cell line of the lepidopteran Galleria mellonella offered an opportunity for exploring the use of ovarian tissue culture to induce antimicrobial proteins in lieu of the larvae. The ovarian cell growth rates and cell yields were maximized by adjusting Grace's medium to pH 6.5, adding 15% (v/v) qualified heat-inactivated fetal calf serum, and lowering the sucrose concentration to 9.3 g/L. Five cell forms and biochemical profiles of the collective cell types were analyzed throughout the culture growth cycle. The final modified culture medium did not affect morphogenesis, whereas it increased the culture growth rate by 50% and the final cell yield threefold. The molting and immunoprotein-inducing hormone, 20-hydroxyecdysone, increased culture growth rate and altered the levels of cell types A and D. Neither 20-hydroxyecdysone nor the larval immunizing agents, apolipophorin-III or Bacillus subtilis, in combination or alone, induced antibacterial activity. The bacterium did induce immunity in both larval and adult stages.
4294297|Over-expression of transforming growth factor-alpha (
4295044| Heat shock proteins (HSPs) have been recognized as molecules that maintain cellular homeostasis during changes in the environment. Here we report that HSP90 functions not only in stress responses but also in certain aspects of cellular differentiation. We found that HSP90 showed remarkably high expression in undifferentiated human embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells, which were subsequently dramatically down-regulated during in vitro cellular differentiation, following retinoic acid (RA) treatment, at the protein level. Surprisingly, heat shock treatment also triggered the down-regulation of HSP90 within 48 h at the protein level. Furthermore, the heat treatment induced cellular differentiation into neural cells. This down-regulation of HSP90 by heat treatment was shifted to an up-regulation pattern after cellular differentiation in response to RA treatment. In order to clarify the functions of HSP90 in cellular differentiation, we conducted various experiments, including overexpression of HSP90 via gene transfer. We showed that the RA-induced differentiation of EC cells into a neural cell lineage was inhibited by overexpression of the HSP90 or - isoform via the gene transfer method. On the other hand, the overexpression of HSP90 alone impaired cellular differentiation into trophoectoderm. These results show that down-regulation of HSP90 is a physiologically critical event in the differentiation of human EC cells and that specific HSP90 isoforms may be involved in differentiation into specific cell lineages. 
20616539|A cell strain (IOZCAS-Spex-II-A) cloned from IOZCAS-Spex-II, a cell line established from the fat body of Spodoptera exigua (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) larva, was characterized, and its capability to produce S. exigua nucleopolyhedrovirus was high with infection rate exceeding 90% compared with its parental cell line IOZCAS-Spex-II that scored only 50%. Growth curve of budded virus (BV) in the strain was analyzed and the titer of BV reached the highest of 3.710 pfu/mL by 96 h after inoculation. Concentration of occlusion bodies (OBs) produced by the cloned cell strain (IOZCAS-Spex-II-A) was 7.110 OBs/mL, while the parental cell line produced 2.410 OBs/mL. The average yield of the virus was 176 OBs/cell of IOZCAS-Spex-II-A compared with 211 OBs/cell that of the parental cell line. Significant differences were observed in virus production, growth characters, cell shape, between the parental cell line, and its clone. The cell lines (IOZCAS-Spex-II and IOZCAS-Spex-II-A) were also susceptible to Autographa californica multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus infection. In addition, they were characterized with regard to their growth rates and DNA amplification fingerprinting technique employing polymerase chain reaction.
41318683|Inflammatory response is the first line of infection. Previous studies have suggested that Chlamydophila pneumoniae heat shock protein (CHSP) 60 is present in human atheromata, and it plays an important role on the chronic infection elicited by C. pneumoniae. Here, we demonstrated in vitro the impact of heat shock protein 10 (HSP10) of C. pneumoniae on THP-1 cells and the role of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) in the procedures of inflammatory response. The production of proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1 beta were induced by recombinant HSP10 dose-dependently, and the proinflammatory activity of HSP10 was greatly reduced by heating and deproteinization treatment. The expression of TLR4 and TLR2 on the cultured cells were determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence. Peritoneal macrophages isolated from wild-type (C3H/HeJ) and TLR4-deficient mice (C3H/HeJ) were respectively stimulated with endotoxin-free proteins. Cytokine responses after stimulation were significantly different, depending on the presence of TLR4. The effect on cytokine expression was blocked by anti-TLR2 or anti-TLR4 MAb partially or dramatically. Thus, HSP10 of C. pneumoniae which could elicit inflammatory reactions in human monocytes may contribute to the inflammatory processes in Chlamydophila infection, and the effects were mediated by TLR4 and, to a lesser extent, TLR2.
4295157|The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is the major stress response system. Several components of the HPA axis, such as corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and POMC peptides and their receptors are also present in the skin. In earlier studies, we showed that CRH inhibits cellular proliferation of immortalized human keratinocytes. We now examine further the functional activity of the HPA axis in the skin, by characterizing the actions of CRH on normal foreskin keratinocytes. The CRH receptor was detected as CRH-R1 antigen at 47 kDa in the cultured keratinocytes by Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry demonstrated its presence in the epidermal and follicular keratinocytes. CRH is also biologically active in cultured keratinocytes, where it inhibits proliferation and enhances the
4295634| We investigated the effect of exogenous wild-type p53 on the radiation-induced cells apoptosis and necrosis at different levels of linear energy transfer (LET) to evaluate its mechanisms. The human melanoma cell line A375, which bears wild-type p53 gene status, was used, as well as the transfectant A375 cells (A375/p53) with adenoviral vector containing the wild-type p53 gene. We exposed these cells to X-rays and to accelerated carbon-ion (C-) beams. Cellular sensitivities were determined by using clonogenic assay. Apoptotic and necrotic cell deaths were determined morphologically by dual staining (acridine orange and ethidium bromide) using fluorescence microscopy. We discovered that (1) there was no significant difference in survival fraction between A375 cells and A375/p53 cells irradiated by C-beams with greater than 32 KeV/m LET, (2) although apoptosis in the two kinds of cells increased in an LET-dependent manner, exogenous wild-type P53 induced cell apoptosis efficiently in A375/p53 relative to A375 cells with X-rays or high-LET irradiation, and (3) by high-LET irradiation, the number of necrosis in A375 cells increased significantly (P < 0.05) in comparison with A375/p53 cells. These results indicate that in high-LET irradiation apoptosis induction is p53 dependent partly and exogenous wild-type P53 plays an important role in modulating cell death type, although there was no significant difference in cellular radiosensitivities. Our observation in the study offers the potential application of high-LET radiation combined with p53 in the management of human patients with melanoma. 
40205797|The standard culture method for neural stem cells cannot prevent the attachment of neurospheres, which eventually result in differentiation. This study developed a new method for long-term neural stem cell cultivation. In the antiattachment group, neural stem cells were cultured in flasks coated with 1.5% agarose gel. As a control, cells were cultured in plastic flasks. The 5-bromine-deoxyuridine incorporation assay was used to determine the S-phase labeling index of both groups. The methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) colorimetric assay was used to determine the total cell vitality. After a 3-mo culture, the spontaneous differentiation of stem cells was studied using immunocytochemistry for neuroepithelial stem cell protein. We found that neural stem cells grew rapidly in the antiattachment flasks. There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups in terms of the S-phase labeling index or MTT assay. When cultured for 3 mo in vitro, many more cells differentiated in the control than in the antiattachment group (32.05 vs. 0.64%, P< 0.01). Moreover, the neural stem cells in the antiattachment group remained multipotent. Therefore, flasks coated with agarose gel are suitable for long-term neural stem cell culture.
4295100|The inability to stably introduce and express foreign genes has hampered basic research in molluscan species. We cultured cells from dissociated embryos of the Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas, and infected these primary cultures with pantropic retroviral vectors containing the envelope glycoprotein of vesicular stomatitis virus. Luciferase transgene expression mediated by different heterologous promoters was demonstrated for at least 9 d after infection of the cells. Surprisingly, the promoter reproducibly mediating the highest level of luciferase expression was the retroviral promoter (U3 region of long terminal repeat) from the Moloney murine leukemia virus. The infection efficiency using a low multiplicity of infection (0.05) was estimated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction to be between 0.1-0.5%. This system will facilitate studies of gene expression and regulation and should be widely applicable to other molluscan species.
4294227| The control of growth and differentiation of tracheal epithelial cells is poorly understood. Retinoic acid seems to be essential for the growth and secretory cell differentiation of hamster tracheal epithelial (HTE) cells in culture. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that one way by which retinoic acid (RA) stimulates growth is by decreasing transforming growth factor beta (TGF) expression or activity or both. HTE cells were very sensitive to TGF-induced growth inhibition. TGF1 was more potent than TGF2 with 50% inhibition of growth achieved at a concentration less than 0.1 ng/ml. A single TGF1 transcript of 2.4 kb was expressed in HTE cells, and the amount increased by fourfold as cell proliferation decreased and differentiation increased. No TGF2 mRNA could be detected in proliferating undifferentiated HTE cells, but two distinct mRNAs (5.1 and 3.5 kb) were observed to be induced in a transient fashion in RA-treated cells which correlated with the onset of differentiation. The amount of biologically active TGF in conditioned media from HTE cells at different stages of growth and differentiation in primary culture was determined by the mink lung epithelial cell growth inhibition assay and the use of neutralizing antibodies. These assays indicated a large increase in the total amount of TGF at the time the cells slowed their growth and started to differentiate. The activity was due primarily to TGF1. Interestingly, cells treated with RA had a major component of "preactivated" (non-latent) TGF1 compared to control cells. Addition of TGF1 neutralizing antibodies directly to HTE cultures delayed the onset of both growth arrest and differentiation. These results do not support the hypothesis that RA stimulates HTE cell growth by decreasing TGF; rather they suggest that endogenously produced TGF may play a role in the initiation of growth arrest which precedes differentiation. 
4294989|Organophosphate (OP) anticholinesterases were found to modulate metabolic activities of human neuroblastoma cells and hepatocytes, which was detectable by the Cytosensor[REGISTERED SIGN] microphysiometer. The nerve gas ethyl-S-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methylphosphorothiolate (VX), at
20172213| The release of chromaffin granular content from staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB)-treated and -untreated PC12 cells was studied by electron microscopy. The treatment of the cells with SEB at the concentration of 20 g/ml caused marked increase of the chromaffin granules that either bound to the plasma membrane by the characteristic rods, measuring 15 to 20 nm in length and showing a tubular structure, or budded off at the free cell surface, surrounded by a layer of rod-containing cytoplasm and enclosed by the plasma membrane. The binding between the granular and plasma membranes by the rods did not lead to membrane fusion and exocytosis of the granular content. Many of the bound granules showed vesiculation with loss of the electron-dense core material; at the same time, some of the binding rods contained intraluminal electron-dense material similar to the granular core material. These findings suggested that the electron-dense material (i.e., norepinephrine) of the bound granules was released extracellularly through channels within the rods. Although the granules were bound to the plasma membrane with equal frequency at the free and contiguous cell surfaces, the granular budding occurred only at the free cell surface, indicating that it occurred incidentally to some granules bound at the free cell surfaces. On the basis of the morphological observations, it is postulated that the electron-dense material of the bound granule is selectively released extracellularly through the rods, leaving the vesiculated granules behind in the cytoplasm. The same mode of release of the granular content was observed, though less frequently, in the untreated control cells. No morphological evidence that indicated that the granular content was released extracellularly by exocytosis was found in the treated and control cells. The present observations indicated that the SEB treatment of PC12 cells stimulated the binding of chromaffin granules to the plasma membrane by the rods and the budding of the bound granules at the free cell surface. 
4295472|A cell colony (IM95m) that produces hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and interleukin-8 (IL-8) was cloned from gastric cancer cells (IM95 cell line). In culture medium, the highest levels of HGF, VEGF, and IL-8 were about 1.1, 0.9, and 0.17 ng/ml culture medium at 3 d from 10
20460113|Fetal calf serum (FCS) is conventionally used for animal cell cultures due to its inherent growth-promoting activities. However animal welfare issues and stringent requirements for human transplantation studies demand a suitable alternative for FCS. With this view, we studied the effect of FCS, human AB serum (ABS), and human umbilical cord blood serum (UCBS) on murine islets of Langerhans and human bone marrow--derived mesenchymal-like cells (hBMCs). We found that there was no difference in morphology and functionality of mouse islets cultured in any of these three different serum supplements as indicated by insulin immunostaining. A comparative analysis of hBMCs maintained in each of these three different serum supplements demonstrated that UCBS supplemented media better supported proliferation of hBMCs. Moreover, a modification of adipogenic differentiation protocol using UCBS indicates that it can be used as a supplement to support differentiation of hBMCs into adipocytes. Our results demonstrate that UCBS not only is suitable for maintenance of murine pancreatic islets, but also supports attachment, propagation, and differentiation of hBMCs in vitro. We conclude that UCBS can serve as a better serum supplement for growth, maintenance, and differentiation of hBMCs, making it a more suitable supplement in cell systems that have therapeutic potential in human transplantation programs.
4294267|Transforming growth
4294591| The main purpose of this study was to examine, for the first time, the ability of recombinant adenovirus to mediate gene transfer into cardiac myocytes derived from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells differentiating in vitro. In addition, observations were made on the effect of adenovirus infection on cardiac myocyte differentiation and contractility in this in vitro system of cardiogenesis. ES cell cultures were infected at various times of differentiation with a recombinant adenovirus vector (AdCMVlacZ) containing the bacterial lacZ gene under the control of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. Expression of the lacZ reporter gene was determined by histochemical staining for P-galactosidase activity. LacZ expression was not detected in undifferentiated ES cells infected with AdCMVlacZ. In contrast, infection of differentiating ES cell cultures showed increasing transgene expression with continued time in culture. Expression in ES-cell-derived cardiac myocytes was demonstrated by codetection of -galactosidase activity and troponin T with indirect immunofluorescence. At 24 h postinfection, approximately 27% of the cardiac myocytes were -galactosidase positive, and lacZ gene expression appeared to be stable for up to 21 d postinfection. Adenovirus infection had no apparent effect on the onset, extent, or duration of spontaneously contracting ES-cell-derived cardiomyocytes, indicating that cardiac differentiation and contractile function were not significantly altered in the infected cultures. The demonstration of adenovirus-mediated gene transfer into ES-cell-derived cardiac myocytes will aid studies of gene expression with this in vitro model of cardiogenesis and may facilitate future studies involving the use of these myocytes for grafting experiments in vivo. 
23279366|Galectin-3, a structurally unique beta-galactoside-binding lectin, through the specific proteinprotein and proteincarbohydrate interactions participates in numerous biological processes, such as cell proliferation and apoptosis, adhesion and activation. Its expression and secretion by until now an unknown mechanism are modulated by diverse molecules and are dependent on different physiological and pathophysiological conditions. By autocrine and paracrine actions, galectin-3 modulates many immune reactions and affects various immune cells, particularly those of monocytemacrophage lineage. This is why galectin-3 has recently become an attractive therapeutic target. However, molecular mechanisms of its actions as well as regulatory mechanism of its expression and activation are still largely unknown. In this study, we show that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) provokes upregulation of galectin-3 expression on both gene and protein level in monocyte-like THP-1 cells, which can be inhibited by dexamethasone, but not with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs aspirin and indomethacin. Resting and LPS-challenged monocyte-like THP-1 cells do not have detectable amount of surface-bound galectin-3, but are able to bind exogenously added galectin-3 with the same capacity. Although galectin-3 is generally considered to be a pro-inflammatory molecule, here we show that the exogenously added galectin-3 does not affect interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p70 and TNF- production in resting and LPS-activated monocyte-like THP-1 cells nor influences its own gene expression level in those cells.
4295167|Developed at NASA, the rotary cell culture system (RCCS) allows the creation of unique microgravity environment of low shear force, high-mass transfer, and enables three-dimensional (3D) cell culture of dissimilar cell types. Recently we demonstrated that a simulated microgravity is conducive for maintaining long-term cultures of functional hepatocytes and promote 3D cell assembly. Using deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) microarray technology, it is now possible to measure the levels of thousands of different messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) in a single hybridization step. This technique is particularly powerful for comparing gene expression in the same tissue under different environmental conditions. The aim of this research was to analyze gene expression of hepatoblastoma cell line (HepG2) during early stage of 3D-cell assembly in simulated microgravity. For this, mRNA from HepG2 cultured in the RCCS was analyzed by deoxyribonucleic acid microarray. Analyses of HepG2 mRNA by using 6K glass DNA microarray revealed changes in expression of 95 genes (overexpression of 85 genes and downregulation of 10 genes). Our preliminary results indicated that simulated microgravity modifies the expression of several genes and that microarray technology may provide new understanding of the fundamental biological questions of how gravity affects the development and function of individual cells.
4294638|The ex vivo establishment, expansion, transduction, and reintroduction of autologous bone marrow stromal cells offers a potential efficacious system for somatic cell gene therapy. It is likely that any ex vivo system will require the use of large numbers of cells which express high levels of transgene products. We present a method for routine expansion of canine bone marrow stromal cells, established from initial 10-20 ml marrow aspirates, to greater than 10
4294840| Examination of estrogen-responsive processes in cell culture is used to investigate hormonal influence on cancer cell growth and gene expression. Most experimental studies have used breast cancer cell lines, in particular MCF7 cells, to investigate estrogen responsiveness. In this study we examined an ovarian cancer cell line, BG-1, which is highly estrogen-responsive in vitro. This observation, plus the fact that the cells are of ovarian rather than mammary gland origin, makes it an attractive alternative model. 17-Estradiol, epidermal growth factor, and insulin-like growth factor induced proliferation of BG-1 and MCF7 cells. Viability was dependent on these growth factors in BG-1 cells, but not in MCF7 cells. Therefore, we examined the differences between these two cell lines with respect to estrogen and growth factor receptors. BG-1 cells have twice as many estrogen receptors as MCF7 cells, and BG-1 cells have higher insulin-like growth factor-1 and epidermal growth factor receptor levels than MCF7 cells. This may also explain why BG-1 cells proliferate 56% more robustly in serum and show more serum dependence in culture. In both BG-1 and MCF7 cells, epidermal growth factor receptor number is low (<20 000/cell), while insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor level was highest in estrogen receptor positive cell lines. For example, insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor was higher in BG-1 and MCF7 cells than in estrogen receptor negative cells (HeLa > MDA-MB-435 > HBL100). In conclusion, BG-1 cells are an excellent model for understanding hormone responsiveness in ovarian tissue and an alternative for examining estrogen receptor-mediated and insulin-like growth factor-1/epidermal growth factor/estrogen cross-talk processes because of their sensitivity to these factors. 
23353406|Derivation of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines from chromosomally or genetically abnormal embryos obtained following preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) is of immense interest to study various kinds of genetic disorders. In this study, we have established a new hESC line RelicellhES4, isolated from an aneuploid embryo. Derivation of this cell line was achieved by isolation of the inner cell mass (ICM) by mechanical method. Karyotype analysis showed that the hESC line is euploid having 46 chromosomes, contrary to our expectations. The undifferentiated cells exhibited long-term proliferation capacity and expressed markers typical for hESC, such as OCT4, NANOG, and SSEA4. A comparative microarray study was carried out to analyze the transcription profile of RelicellhES4 along with three other normal hESC line generated earlier in our lab. RelicellhES4 manifested pluripotent differentiation potential both in vivo and in vitro. The cells were also induced to form neurons, cardiomyocytes, and pancreatic  islets. The generation of a normal hESC line from an abnormal embryo points to the fact that even such embryos can be considered for deriving new hESC lines instead of discarding them. The data represented here are the first detailed report on characterization and differentiation of an Indian hESC line generated from a PGD analyzed embryo.
4295503|The existence, origin, and bipotency of the hepatic stem cell (HeSC) have been investigated. However, the isolation and culture of HeSCs from adult liver tissue is not yet well established, and the mechanism by which HeSCs differentiate into mature cells remains unclear. On the other hand, the development of HeSC-isolating and -culturing methods and the in vitro clonal analysis of their mechanism of differentiation are required to enable clinical applications of regenerative medicine in the liver. For the purpose of providing HeSCs for these studies, we attempted to establish an HeSC line from a normal adult porcine liver using a unique culture system, a poly-D-lysine-coated culture dish with NAIR-1 medium (the PDL-NAIR-1 culture system). Moreover, we examined the differentiating capacity of HeSCs in vitro. We demonstrated that it was possible in the culture system that immature epithelial cells capable of proliferating grew selectively into aggregates and that two hepatic stem-like cell lines, PHeSC-Al and PHeSC-A2, were established. The results from our data suggest that these hepatic stem-like cell lines were capable of self-renewing and differentiating into hepatocytes or biliary epithelial cells and show that the PDI-NAIR-1 culture system offers the immense advantage of isolating and culturing HeSCs from a normal adult liver. Furthermore, because of the ability to use a clonal analysis in vitro, these cell lines are useful for the investigation of various mechanisms in which HeSCs seem to participate and their application in the study of regenerative medicine in the liver.
23353424|Adipose-derived stem cells are an attractive alternative as a source of stem cells that can easily be extracted from adipose tissue. Isolation, characterization, and multilineage differentiation of adipose-derived stem cells have been described for human and a number of other species. Here we aimed to isolate and characterize camel adipose-derived stromal cell frequency and growth characteristics and assess their adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic differentiation potential. Samples were obtained from five adult dromedary camels. Fat from abdominal deposits were obtained from each camel and adipose-derived stem cells were isolated by enzymatic digestion as previously reported elsewhere for adipose tissue. Cultures were kept until confluency and subsequently were subjected to differentiation protocols to evaluate adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic potential. The morphology of resultant camel adipose-derived stem cells appeared to be spindle-shaped fibroblastic morphology, and these cells retained their biological properties during in vitro expansion with no sign of abnormality in karyotype. Under inductive conditions, primary adipose-derived stem cells maintained their lineage differentiation potential into adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic lineages during subsequent passages. Our observation showed that like human lipoaspirate, camel adipose tissue also contain multi-potent cells and may represent an important stem cell source both for veterinary cell therapy and preclinical studies as well.
4294921|To develop serum-free (SF) medium for dihydrofolate reductase-deficient Chinese hamster ovary cells (DG44), a statistical optimization approach based on a Plackett-Burman design was adopted. DG44 cells which were normally maintained in 10% serum medium were gradually weaned to 0.5% serum medium to increase the probability of successful growth in SF medium. A basal medium was prepared by supplementing Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Ham's nutrient mixture F12 with hypoxanthine (10 mg/1) and thymidine (10 mg/1). Twenty-eight different supplements were selected as variables on the basis of their growth-promoting abilities. From statistical analysis, leucine, tryptophan, lysine, proline, histidine, hydrocortisone, ethanolamine, and phosphatidylcholine were identified as important components showing positive effects on cell growth. A new SF medium (SF-DG44) was formulated by supplementing the basal medium with these components. When the weaned cells were inoculated at
4295272| Changes in oligosaccharide structures of glycoconjugates have been observed, and are postulated to have key roles in embryonic development and differentiation. N-Acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) -1,4-galactosyltransferase (4GalT) AKI showed different expression patterns in time and space, and different enzymatic activity from the other known family members. The epidermis of mouse embryo included a high level of AKI activities, which transferred galactose (Gal) to endogenous glycoprotein (molecular weight 130 kDa) (GP130). The maximum activity was for 13.5-d postcoitum embryos. Specific antibody against AKI inhibited 81% of GlcNAc 4GalT activities, which indicates that AKI represents the major part of the embryonic epidermis enzymes. AKI shows 2.2 times higher galactosyltransferase activity toward Gal-acceptor glucose with -lactalbumin (-LA) than toward GlcNAc without -LA. AKI is also expressed in mouse melanoma and leukemia cell lines and in human basal cell carcinoma specimens. The GP130 Gal acceptor once galactosylated by AKI may be directly involved in epidermal differentiation and oncogenesis. 
40205936|Serum-free mouse embryo (SFME) cells are an epidermal growth factor (EGF)-dependent established line derived from brains of 16-d-old Balb/c mouse embryos. SFME cells grow indefinitely in serum-free medium without replicative senescence, chromosomal abnormalities, or malignant transformation. SFME cells express nestin, a neural stem cell marker, under serum-free conditions. Exposure to serum or transforming growth factor  (TGF-) leads to a marked increase in differentiation toward the astrocytic lineage with expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and other astrocyte markers. In this study, we show that treatment of SFME cells with bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP-4), another member of the TGF- family, led to differentiation toward a neuronal lineage under conditions of low mitogenic stimulation (0.5 ng/mL) by EGF and fibroblast growth factor. Maximum mitogenic stimulation with 50 ng/mL EGF blocked the BMP-4 effect on neuronal differentiation, but did not block TGF--induced expression of markers of the astrocytic lineage. BMP-4 treatment also enhanced the activity of the neuronspecific enolase (NSE) promoter in SFME-NSE-lacZ cells that carry the gene for bacterial -galactosidase under the control of the NSE promoter. Extended BMP-4 treatment caused SFME cells to express a neuronal phenotype synthesizing gamma-aminobutyric acid. These results indicate that SFME cells have the capacity to generate both neurons and astrocytes in vitro, which resemble the behavior of EGF-dependent multipotential stem cells in the central nervous system, and establish a relationship between effects of BMP-4 and degree of mitogenic stimulation by other peptide growth factors.
4294163|In an effort to establish a more chemically defined culture system to study the regulation of chondrogenic differentiation in vitro, two commercially available serum replacements, NuSerum and NuSerum IV, were tested on embryonic limb mesenchyme. Limb bud (LB) mesenchymal cells were isolated from Hamilton-Hamburger stage 23-24 chick embryos and plated at various densities (1, 5, 10, or
4295473| A strong tendency is currently emerging to remove not only serum but also any product of animal origin from animal cell culture media during production of recombinant proteins. This should facilitate downstream processing and improve biosafety. One way consists in the fortification of protein-free nutritive media with plant protein hydrolysates. To investigate the effects of plant peptones on mammalian cell cultivation and productivity, CHO 320 cells, a clone of CHO K1 cells genetically modified to secrete human interferon- (IFN-), were first adapted to cultivation in suspension in a protein-free medium. Both cell growth and IFN- secretion were found to be equivalent to those reached in serum-containing medium. Eight plant peptones, selected on the basis of their content in free amino acids and oligopeptides, as well as molecular weight distribution of oligopeptides, were tested for their ability to improve culture parameters. These were improved in the presence of three peptones, all having an important fraction of oligopeptides ranging from 1 to 10 kDa and a small proportion of peptides higher than 10 kDa. These peptones do not seem to add significantly to the nutritive potential to basal protein-free nutritive medium. Nevertheless, supplementation of an oligopeptide-enriched wheat peptone improved cell growth by up to 30% and IFN- production by up to 60% in shake-flask experiments. These results suggest that the use of plant peptones with potential growth factor-like or antiapoptotic bioactivities could improve mammalian cell cultivation in protein-free media while increasing the product biosafety. 
41318679|To determine whether PKH26 labeling affects the morphologies, phenotypes, proliferation, and secretion abilities of human umbilical mesenchymal stromal cells (HUMSCs) were investigated. Isolated HUMSCs were labeled with PKH26, and cell morphology was observed under microscope. Cell cycle, apoptotic cell death, expression of PKH26, and the proliferation rate were evaluated. Additionally, fluorescence intensity of PKH26 labeling at different passage times was quantified. There were no detectable differences in cell morphology, cell growth, and proliferation rate after PKH26 labeling. In addition, fluorescence intensity of PKH26 labeling was gradually reduced with increase of the passage times. The PKH26 labeling disappeared after passage six times. In summary, PKH26 labeling is a safe and effective way to label live HUMSCs.
4295442| Intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) are known to produce monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1). However, MCP-1 production, as with many other cytokines, can be regulated by a network of cytokines present in the environment of the IEC. Both IEC and inflammatory cells have been shown to produce transforming growth factor- (TGF-), and the regulatory effect of this cytokine on MCP-1 secretion by IEC has not been determined. Using the IEC-18 cell line, we have found that TGF- 1 alone induced the secretion of high levels of MCP-1. Treatment with TGF- 1 also enhanced the levels of MCP-1 messenger ribonucleic acid. However, costimulation of the cells with TGF- 1 and interleukin-1 (IL-1) resulted in significant, but less than additive, increases in MCP-1 secretion. Finally, the enhancing effect of TGF-1 on MCP-1 secretion was not due to IL-6. These results suggest that TGF- 1 from IEC or inflammatory cells may significantly enhance the secretion of MCP-1 by IEC and play an important role in inflamed mucosal tissues. 
4294427|Long-term primary cultures of epithelial cells from rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) liver have been established. Nearly homogenous (>97%) populations of hepatocytes were placed into primary culture and remained viable and proliferative for at least 70 d. In addition to hepatocytes, proliferative biliary cells persisted in the cultures for at least 30 d. Finally, a third type of epithelial cell, which we have termed a "spindle cell," consistently appeared and proliferated to confluence in these cultures. The confluent cultures of spindle cells were successfully subcultured and passaged. The initial behavior, growth, and optimization of serum and media requirements for these cells is described. All three cell types proliferated as measured by thymidine incorporation, autoradiography, proliferating cellular nuclear antigen analysis, and propidium iodine staining. Further efforts to characterize the cells included western blotting and immuno-histochemical staining with antibodies to cytokeratins previously reported in fish liver. From these data, it appears that all three cell populations are epithelial in nature. Furthermore, significant changes in actin organization, often indicative of transformation or pluripotent cells, were observed with increased time in primary culture.
4295461| The epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor  (TGF#03B2;) families of signaling molecules play a major role in growth and development of embryos. Abrogation of either signaling pathway results in defects in embryogenesis, including cleft palate. In the developing palate, both EGF and TGF#03B2; regulate cellular proliferation, extracellular matrix synthesis, and cellular differentiation but often in an opposing manner. Evidence from various adult cell types suggests the existence of cross talk between the EGF and TGF#03B2; signaling pathways, although it is unclear whether such cross talk exists in murine embryonic maxillary mesenchymal cells, from which the developing palate is derived. In this study, embryonic maxillary mesenchymal cells in culture were treated with EGF and TGF#03B2;, either singly or in combination, and the cells were subsequently examined for signaling interactions between these two pathways. Immunoblot analyses of nuclear extracts of embryonic maxillary mesenchymal cells revealed that TGF#03B2;-induced nuclear translocation of Smad 2 and Smad 3 proteins was not affected by EGF. Conversely, immunoblot analyses of whole-cell extracts of these cells indicated that EGF-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase proteins, ERK1 and ERK2, was not affected by TGF#03B2;. Expression of a transfected luciferase reporter gene driven by a promoter with Smad binding elements was induced by TGF#03B2; in these cells but was not affected by EGF. Last, TGF#03B2; was found to induce expression of the endogenous gelatinase B gene in embryonic maxillary mesenchymal cells; however, this effect was independent of any interaction of EGF. Collectively, data from this study suggest that the EGF and TGF#03B2; signal transduction pathways do not converge in murine embryonic maxillary mesenchymal cells. 
4294026|Invertebrate tissue culture is an underutilized resource in the study of insect-transmitted plant viruses. Since the establishment of leafhopper vector monolayers over 20 yr ago, these continuous cultures were used primarily to assay the infectivity of plant viruses that replicate in their insect vectors and to elucidate the viral determinants for transmission of wound tumor phytoreovirus and potato yellow dwarf rhabdovirus. Primary aphid cultures were used to study the uptake of viruses and viral accumulation. The biggest potential for use of insect cell culture in the future is in studying the molecular biology of propagative viruses. Although leafhopper cell lines do not support the same virus-vector specificity that is found in vivo, the cell lines have some advantage over the use of whole insects in the ease with which viral transcripts and mutant viruses can be uniformly introduced into cells. Existing leafhopper monolayer systems could facilitate studies on the influence of the vector's genetic background on viral replication. Cultures derived from salivary glands might be useful to study the insect receptors that recognize the viral capsid. Cell lines from planthoppers, thrips, and eriophid mite vectors would allow research on the biological and molecular characterization of poorly characterized plant viruses.
41318684|Selegiline, the irreversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), is currently used to treat Parkinson's disease. However, the mechanism of action of selegiline is complex and cannot be explained solely by its MAO-B inhibitory action. It stimulates gene expression, as well as expression of a number of mRNAs or proteins in nerve and glial cells. Direct neuroprotective and antiapoptotic actions of selegiline have previously been observed in vitro. Previous studies showed that selegiline can induce neuronal phenotype in cultured bone marrow stem cells and embryonic stem cells. Embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells are developmental pluripotene cells which can be differentiated into all cell types under the appropriate conditions. The present study was carried out to examine the effects of selegiline on undifferentiated P19 EC cells. The results showed that selegiline treatment had a dramatic effect on neuronal morphology. It induced the differentiation of EC cells into neuron-like cells in a concentration-dependent manner. The peak response was in a dose of selegiline significantly lower than required for MAO-B inhibition. The differentiated cells were immunoreactive for neuron-specific proteins, synaptophysin, and -III tubulin. Stem cell therapy has been considered as an ideal option for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Generation of neurons from stem cells could serve as a source for potential cell therapy. This study suggests the potential use of combined selegiline and stem cell therapy to improve deficits in neurodegenerative diseases.
4295243|A recording chamber for monitoring the electrophysiological properties of the isolated heart of adult Drosophila melanogaster has been developed. Spontaneously generated field potentials of constant amplitude can be recorded for 6-8 h (n = 14); in very few cases, records were maintained stable for over 10 h (n = 4), and in some cases below 6 h (n = 5). The chamber consists of the tip of a micropipette, which allows for monitoring the field potential generated by the spontaneously contracting heart. The method can produce accurate information about the heart rate and the amplitude of the cardiac action potential. The preparation can be used for pharmacological studies on the heart of D. melanogaster since it responds, with an increase in the heart rate, to unusually low concentrations of octopamine, 1 nM, a compound with cardioaccelerating properties for insect heart. The recording system can be easily modified for experiments on the heart of other insects. Finally, the isolated heart of D. melanogaster provides a simple method for identifying mutations that affect heart physiology.
20616600|Cardiac tissue-engineering research is focused on the development of functional three-dimensional (3D) heart muscle in vitro. These models allow the detailed study of critical events in organogenesis, such as the establishment of cell-cell communication and construction and modification of the extracellular matrix. We have previously described a model for 3D heart muscle, termed cardioids, formed by the spontaneous delamination of a cohesive monolayer of primary cells in the absence of any synthetic scaffolding material. In an earlier publication, we have shown that, upon electrical stimulation, cardioids generate a twitch force in the range of 200-300N, generate a specific force (twitch force normalized to total cross-sectional area) of 2-4 kN/m, and can be electrically paced at frequencies of up to 10 Hz without any notable fatigue. We have two objectives for the current study: model development and model optimization. Our model development efforts are focused on providing additional characterization of the cardioid model. In this study, we show for the first time that cardioids show a pattern of gene expression comparable to that of cells cultured in two dimensions on tissue culture plastic and normal mammalian heart muscle. Compared with primary cardiac cells cultured on tissue culture plastic, the expression of -myosin heavy chain (MHC), -MHC, SERCA2, and phospholamban was significantly higher in cardioids. Our second objective, model optimization, is focused on evaluating the effect of several cell culture variables on cardioid formation and function. Specifically, we looked at the effect of plating density (1.0-4.010 cells per cardioid), concentration of two adhesion proteins (laminin at 0.2-2.0g/cm and fibronectin at 1-10g/cm), myocyte purity (using preplating times of 15 and 60 min), and ascorbic acid stimulation (1-100l/ml). For our optimization studies, we utilized twitch force in response to electrical stimulation as our endpoint metric. Based on these studies, we found that cardioids formed with a plating density in the range 3-410 cells per cardioid generated the maximum twitch force, whereas increasing the surface adhesion protein (using either laminin or fibronectin) and increasing the myocyte purity both resulted in a decrease in twitch force. In addition, increasing the ascorbic acid concentration resulted in an increase in the baseline force of cardioids, which was recorded in the absence of electrical stimulation. Based on the model development studies, we have shown that cardioids do indeed exhibit a gene expression pattern similar to normal mammalian heart muscle. This provides further validity for the cardioid model. Based on the model optimization studies, we have identified specific cell culture regimes which support cardioid formation and function. These results are specific to the cardioid model; however, they may be translated and applied to other tissue-engineering models. Collectively, the work described in this study provides insight into the formation of functional 3D heart muscle and the effect of several cell culture variables on tissue formation and function.
4294821|Caprine uterine epithelial (UE) cells were cultured on Matrigel-coated filters. Transmission electron microscopy revealed polarized UE cells characterized by basally located nuclei, apical microvilli, convoluted lateral membranes, and junctional complexes. Domain-specific secretion of prostaglandins and radiolabeled proteins provide further evidence of functional epithelial cell polarity. Two experiments were conducted to evaluate factors controlling prostaglandin E
4294694|This study deals with the role of the mechanical properties of matrices in in vitro angiogenesis. The ability of rigid fibrinogen matrices with fibrin gels to promote capillarylike structures was compared. The role of the mechanical properties of the fibrin gels was assessed by varying concentration of the fibrin gels. When the concentration of fibrin gels was decreased from 2 mg/ml to 0.5 mg/ml, the capillarylike network increased. On rigid fibrinogen matrices, capillarylike structures were not formed. The extent of the capillarylike network formed on fibrin gels having the lowest concentration depended on the number of cells seeded. The dynamic analysis of capillarylike network formation permitted a direct visualization of a progressive stretching of the 0.5 mg/ml fibrin gels. This stretching was not observed when fibrin concentration increases. This analysis shows that 10 h after seeding, a prearrangement of cells into ringlike structures was observed. These ringlike structures grew in size. Between 16 and 24 h after seeding, the capillarylike structures were formed at the junction of two ringlike structures. Analysis of the
20616547|Alpha-lipoic acid has been shown to possess cancer-cell-killing activity via activation of the apoptosis pathway. In this study, the cytotoxic activities of alpha-lipoic and dihydro-alpha-lipoic acid were compared in HL-60 cells. The cell-killing activity of dihydro-alpha-lipoic acid was higher than that of alpha-lipoic acid. Both alpha-lipoic and dihydro-alpha-lipoic acid induced caspase-3 cleavage and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in treated cells. On the other hand, apparent necrotic or late-stage apoptotic cell populations could be detected in dihydro-alpha-lipoic acid cells but not in those treated with alpha-lipoic acid. Moreover, dihydro-alpha-lipoic acid, but not alpha-lipoic acid, induced marked mitochondrial permeability transition. Antioxidants could not prevent dihydro-alpha-lipoic- or alpha-lipoic-acid-induced cell death. In addition, dihydro-alpha-lipoic and alpha-lipoic acid did not up-regulate cellular reactive oxygen level. These results indicated that dihydro-alpha-lipoic acid exerts more potent cytotoxicity than alpha-lipoic acid through different cytotoxic actions.
4294391|In three-dimensional tissues in vivo, cells find themselves in a unique, heterogeneous microenvironment among various cellular and noncellular elements. Cells are greatly affected by and contribute to their physical and chemical microenvironments. However, live cells are currently studied predominantly in homogeneous monolayer cultures where newly established contacts might be fundamentally different from contacts in vivo. Several systems have been suggested to simulate the three-dimensional environment of real tissue. In this report, we describe a new system for studying cell behavior inside real tissues in vitro. By fluorescently labeling mouse tumor cells, then implanting them into cultured tissue blocks (histocultures), we have observed cellular location and followed their locomotion, within tissues in vitro for days. We discuss the potential of the described system for studying different aspects of cell behavior in a nativelike microenvironment.
40205908|Breast and ovarian cancer patients with germline mutations in BRCA1 respond more favorably to initial chemotherapy. We previously reported that cells from women carrying the BRCA1 185delAG founder mutation undergo an enhanced caspase-3-mediated apoptotic response. Here, we report on the transient and stable transfection of cDNA coding for the putative truncated protein product of the BRCA1 185delAG mutant gene into BRCA1 wild-type human ovarian surface epithelial cells and ovarian cancer cells, resulting in cells with a heterozygous background containing two BRCA1 wild-type alleles and the BRCA1 185delAG transcript. The BRCA1 185delAG truncation (BRAt) protein did not alter epithelial cell morphology or induce tumorigenesis. However, upon treatment with staurosporine, BRAt cells showed increased levels of active caspase-3 and increased cleavage of caspase-3 substrates, PARP and DFF45. Additionally, XIAP and cIAP-1 protein are at reduced levels in untreated BRAt cells as compared to control cells. BRAt also reduced levels of phosphorylated Akt and overexpression of activated Akt in BRAt cells restored caspase-3 activity to that seen in wild-type cells. Further, BRAt expression increased chemosensitivity in platinum- resistant ovarian cancer cells. Taken together, our data demonstrate that truncated proteins arising from BRCA1 185delAG mutation increase Akt-mediated apoptosis, suggesting a possible mechanism by which ovarian cancer patients with this germline BRCA1 mutation may respond better to initial chemotherapy.
4294968| A cell line has been derived from a human prostatic carcinoma xenograft, CWR22R. This represents one of very few available cell lines representative of this disease. The cell line is derived from a xenograft that was serially propagated in mice after castration-induced regression and relapse of the parental, androgen-dependent CWR22 xenograft. Flow cytometric and cytogenetic analysis showed that this cell line represents one hyper DNA-diploid stem line with two clonal, evolved cytogenetic sublines. The basic karyotype is close to that of the grandparent xenograft, CWR22, and is relatively simple with 50 chromosomes. In nude mice, the line forms tumors with morphology similar to that of the xenografts, and like the parental CWR22 and CWR22R xenografts, this cell line expresses prostate specific antigen. Growth is weakly stimulated by dihydroxytestosterone and lysates are immunoreactive with androgen receptor antibody by Western blot analysis. Growth is stimulated by epidermal growth factor but is not inhibited by transforming growth factor-l. 
20616592|Ex vivo expansion of skin epithelial stem cells has long attracted great interest because of the potential utilization in transplantation and gene therapy. The use of cultured stem or progenitor cells was limited by the lack of applicable culturing system with both satisfactory expansion efficacy and well suppressed differentiation ex vivo. The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways are responsible for cell growth and differentiation process. We investigated the function of p38 inhibitor SB203580 in the ex vivo expansion of skin epithelial progenitor cells by comparing media with or without addition of this inhibitor. Our results showed that the culturing medium with murine 3T3 feeder layers added with 10 M SB203580 was more effective in promoting clonal growth of human skin epithelial progenitors or stem cells than the conventional medium without SB203580. The clone initial day in cells treated with 10 M SB203580 came 2 d earlier with higher colony formation efficiency. The skin epithelial progenitor cells treated with 10 M SB203580 formed clones that were uniformly smaller in size, longer in sustained proliferation, shorter in clone doubling time, higher in S-phase cells percentage, and lower in levels of differentiation markers such as K10 along with higher levels of stem-cell-associated markers such as p63, K15, and ABCG2 than those cultured in the conventional medium. Collectively, these results indicate that the p38 MAPK pathways inhibitor SB203580 can be used as a culture medium additive that helps to achieve more effective ex vivo expansion of skin epithelial progenitor cells.
4295133|The potential for occupational exposure to the esters of acrylic acid (acrylates) is considerable, and, thus, requires a greater understanding of the their toxicity. Confluent (70-90%) cultures of normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEK), dermal fibroblasts (NHDF), or bronchial epithelium (NHBE) were exposed to the monofunctional ethyl acrylate (EA), the multifunctional tripropylene glycol diacrylate (TPGDA), or TPGDA monomer in a radiation curable lacquer (Lacquer A) at equimolar dosages in order to determine human in vitro cytotoxicity. Viability of the cells after 2-24-h exposure to the representative monofunctional or multifunctional acrylate or solvent control was used to calculate an index of acute cytotoxicity (50% inhibitory dose;
4295430|A novel, untransformed koala cell line (KC-1) was established by culturing koala conjunctival tissue in growth medium, which has permitted the study of the cell biology of this unique system. After the establishment of the KC-1 cell line, the cells were characterized by light microscopy, doubling time, and Western blot analysis. Light microscopy revealed that the cells have an epithelial morphology. Doubling times were significantly different (P < 0.015) depending on fetal calf serum (FCS) concentration (16.5 h in 10% FCS and 26.5 h in 2% FCS). Cells constricted while in suspension but were shown to attach to the coverslip (or flask) and flatten rapidly, less than 1 h after seeding. To confirm the epithelial nature of the cells, protein was extracted and Western blot analysis was performed. Subsequent probing with primary and secondary antibodies (monoclonal anticytokeratin clone C-11 IgG1 and anti-mouse IgG) revealed two bands at 45 and 52 kDa (compared against a protein molecular weight marker) that correspond to primary type I keratin and major type II keratin, respectively, expressed in simple epithelial cells. The koala cell line was adapted to grow continuously in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium containing 10% FCS for at least 30 passages. This unique cell line is an ideal tool for further investigation on koala cell biology and cytogenetics and for exploration of the pathophysiological mechanism of eye infections caused by different pathogens in koalas.
4294770|We are studying microenvironmental cues which contribute to neuroendocrine organ assembly and tissue-specific differentiation. As our in vitro model, we cultured rat adrenal medullary PC12 pheochromocytoma cells in a novel cell culture system, the NASA rotating wall vessel (RWV) bioreactors. This "simulated microgravity" environment in RWV bioreactors, characterized by randomizing gravitational vectors and minimizing shear stress, has been shown to favor macroscopic tissue assembly and to induce tissue-specific differentiation. We hypothesized that the unique culture conditions in the RWV bioreactors might enhance the in vitro formation of neuroendocrine organoids. To test our hypothesis, we evaluated the expression of several markers of neuroendocrine differentiation in cultures of PC 12 cells maintained for up to 20 d in the slow turning lateral vessel (STLV) type RWV. PC 12 cell differentiation was assessed by morphological, immunological, biochemical and molecular techniques. PC 12 cells, cultured under "simulated microgravity" conditions, formed macroscopic, tissue-like organoids several millimeters in diameter. Concomitantly, the expression of phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase (PNMT), but not of other catecholamine synthesizing enzymes, was enhanced. Increased PNMT expression, as verified on both the gene and protein level, was accompanied by an increase in the specific activity of the enzyme. Furthermore, after 20 d in culture in the STLV, we observed altered patterns of protein tyrosine phosphorylation and prolonged activation of c-fos, a member of the AP-1 nuclear transcription factor complex. We conclude that culture conditions in the RWV appear to selectively activate signal transduction pathways leading to enhanced neuroendocrine differentiation of PC 12 cells.
23481751|Successful derivations of specific neuronal and glial cells from embryonic stem cells have enormous potential for cell therapies and regenerative medicine. However, the low efficiency, the complexity of induction method, and the need for purification represent obstacles that make their application impractical. In this study, we found that PDGFR + cells derived from mouse embryonic stem cells (mESC) can serve as a useful source from which to induce cells that express -aminobutyric-acid (GABA)-releasing (GABAergic) neuronal markers. PDGFR + cells were induced from mESC on collagen IV-coated plates in mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) culture medium with limited exposure to retinoic acid, sorted by fluorescence-activated cell sorter and maintained in MSC culture medium containing Y-27632, a Rho-associated kinase inhibitor. We found that supplementation of vascular endothelial growth factor, fibroblast growth factor-basic, and sodium azide (NaN 3 ) to MSC culture medium effectively differentiated PDGFR + cells into cells that express GABAergic neuronal markers, such as Pax2, Dlx2, GAD67 NCAM, and tubulin-III, while markers for oligodendrocyte (Sox2) and astrocyte (Glast) were suppressed. Immunostaining for GABA showed the majority (865%) of the induced cells were GABA-positive. We also found that the PDGFR + cells retained such differentiation potential even after more than ten passages and cryopreservation. In summary, this study presents a simple and highly efficient method of inducing cells that express GABAergic neuronal markers from mESC. Together with its ease of maintenance in vitro, PDGFR + cells derived from mESC may serve as a useful source for such purpose.
23353395|So far, it has been difficult to generate embryonic stem (ES) cell from early stage preimplantation embryos of buffalo. These ES cells will be more helpful for efficient embryo cloning and generation of body cells as they are more primitive than inner cell mass (ICM)-derived ES cells. The present study was conducted to find the effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine, a pineal gland product), and citral (3,7-dimethyl-2,6-octadienal and a retinoic acid synthesis blocker) on establishment of primary ES cell colonies, the comparative size of the ES cell colonies, and expression of pluripotent genes during extended period of culture in buffalo. Zona-free eight-cell stage in vitro fertilization (IVF) embryos were cultured in ES cell medium supplemented with none (media I as control), LPS (media II), citral melatonin (media III), or melatonin (media IV). The multiplication of blastomere leading to ES cell colony formation and expression of pluripotent genes were assessed up to day 20 of culture. The primary colony formation, the comparative size of the ES cell colonies, and expression of pluripotent genes in these colonies were better in the medium supplemented with melatonin in all days of culture. Within melatonin supplementation, the colony size was comparatively larger on day 8 and day 12 of culture. Further, with this supplementation, the Oct-4 and Nanog expression was comparatively higher on all days of culture. The results indicated that supplementation of melatonin helped in the formation of better primary ES cell colony as well as in the maintenance of pluripotency. The results also indicated that primary colonies developed on day 8 to day 12 of culture may be better for passaging them for establishment of ES cell line from early stage preimplantation IVF embryos of in buffalo.
4294269|Normal human WI-38 fibroblast-like cells in culture undergo a process of senescence, one feature of which is a gradual decline in proliferative capacity. As these cells reach the end of their replicative life span they exhibit decreases in the fraction of cells able to synthesize DNA, in the number of doublings per passage (constant seeding density), and in the cell harvest and saturation densities. They also display increased average cell cycle times, largely at the expense of longer G
4295474| Mesenchymal-like cells in the stroma of breast cancer may arise as a consequence of plasticity within the epithelial compartment, also referred to as epithelial-mesenchymal transition, or by recruitment of genuine mesenchymal cells from the peritumoral stroma. Cells of both the epithelial compartment and the stromal compartment express  smooth muscle actin (-sm actin) as part of a myoepithelial or a myofibroblastic differentiation program, respectively. Moreover, because both epithelial- and mesenchymal-derived cells are nontumorigenic, other means of discrimination are warranted. Here, we describe the contraction of hydrated collagen gels as a rapid functional assay for the distinction between epithelial- and mesenchymal-derived stromal-like cells irrespective of the status of -sm actin expression. Three epithelial-derived cell lines and three genuine mesenchymal-derived breast cell lines were plated on top of hydrated collagen lattices. Reduction in gel height was measured every hour for 6 h and after 22 h using an x-y-z automated position table. Significantly, the epithelial-derived cells, irrespective of a high -sm actin expression, had a fivefold lower contractility (10.0% reduction in gel height) than their true mesenchymal counterparts (53.1% reduction in gel height). To test whether at all force generation could be induced in the nonmesenchymal cells by a-sm actin, transductions were performed to obtain a tetracycline-dependent expression. Expression under these conditions did not augment contractility. It is concluded that epithelial-derived mesenchymal-like cells are functionally defective within a connective tissue environment irrespective of an apparent contractile phenotype. 
4294697|The current study was designed to examine the effects of muscle and fat stem cell coculture on the secretion of insulinlike growth factor (IGF)-I and -II and IGF binding proteins (IGFBP) by these cells. Two sheep satellite cell strains with negligible or high potential for differentiation (10A and 0
23481708|Optimizing culture conditions is known to be crucial for the differentiation of urothelial cell cultures and the formation of the permeability barrier. However, so far, no data exist to confirm if airliquid (AL) and liquidliquid (LL) interfaces are physiologically relevant during urothelial differentiation and barrier formation. To reveal the influence of interfaces on the proliferation, differentiation, and barrier formation of the urothelial cells (UCs) in vitro, we cultured UCs under four different conditions, i.e., at the AL or LL interfaces with physiological calcium concentration and without serum or without physiological calcium concentration and with serum. For each of the four models, the urothelial integrity was tested by measuring the transepithelial resistance (TER), and the differentiation stage was examined by immunolabeling of differentiation-related markers and ultrastructural analysis. We found that the UCs at a LL interface, regardless of the presence or absence of calcium or serum, form the urothelium with more cell layers and achieve a higher TER than UCs at an AL interface. However, UCs grown at an AL interface with physiological concentration of calcium in medium form only one- to two-layered urothelium of UCs, which are larger and express more differentiation-related proteins uroplakins than UCs in other models. These results demonstrate that the interface itself can play a major, although so-far neglected, role in urothelial physiology, particularly in the formation of the urothelial permeability barrier in vitro and the regulatory mechanisms related with urothelial differentiation. In the study, the culturing of UCs in three successive steps is proposed.
40205843|N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) induces gastric cancer in animal models. We established an MNNG-induced mutant of the rat murine RGM-1 gastric epithelial cell line, which we named RGK-1, that could be used as an in vitro model of gastric cancer. This cell line showed signs of neoplasia and transformation, in that it lost contact inhibition and formed tumors in nude mice. The mutant cells also expressed parietal cell-specific H,K-adenosine triphosphatase (H,K-ATPase), which parent RGM-1 did not. The results suggested that parent RGM-1 cells were gastric progenitor cells. This mutant RGK-1 cell line will contribute to future investigation on gastric carcinogenesis and to the development of other pathophysiologic fields.
40602791|Normal and neoplastic human colon tissue obtained at surgery was used to establish conditions for organ culture. Optimal conditions included an atmosphere of 5% CO and 95% O; tissue partially submerged with mucosa at the gas interface; and serum-free medium with 1.5 mM Ca and a number of growth supplements. Histological, histochemical, and immunohistochemical features that distinguish normal and neoplastic tissue were preserved over a 2-d period. With normal tissue, this included the presence of elongated crypts with small, densely packed cells at the crypt base and mucincontaining goblet cells in the upper portion. Ki67 staining, for proliferating cells, was confined to the lower third of the crypt, while expression of extracellular calcium-sensing receptor was seen in the upper third and surface epithelium.E-cadherin and -catenin were expressed throughout the epithelium and confined to the cell surface. In tumor tissue, the same disorganized, abnormal glandular structures seen at time zero were present after 2 d. The majority of cells in these structures were mucin-poor, but occasional goblet cells were seen and mucin staining was present. Ki67 staining was seen throughout the abnormal epithelium and calcium-sensing receptor expression was weak and variable. E-cadherin was seen at the cell surface (similar to normal tissue), but in some places, there was diffuse cytoplasmic staining. Finally, intense cytoplasmic and nuclear -catenin staining was observed in cultured neoplastic tissue.
4294625|Growth patterns of a number of human tumor cell lines that form three-dimensional structures of various architectures when cultured without carrier beads in a NASA rotary cell culture system are described and illustrated. The culture system, which was designed to mimic microgravity, maintained cells in suspension under very low-shear stress throughout culture. Spheroid (particulate) production occurred within a few hours after culture was started, and spheroids increased in size by cell division and fusion of small spheroids, usually stabilizing at a spheroid diameter of about 0.5 mm. Architecture of spheroids varied with cell type. Cellular interactions that occurred in spheroids resulted in conformation and shape changes of cells, and some cell lines produced complex, epithelial-like architectures. Expression of the cell adhesion molecules, CD44 and E cadherin, was upregulated in the three-dimensional constructs. Coculture of fibroblast spheroids with PC3 prostate cancer cells induced tenascin expression by the fibroblasts underlying the adherent prostate epithelial cells. Invasion of the fibroblast spheroids by the malignant epithelium was also demonstrated.
4294642|A method is described for the three-dimensional (3-D) in vitro culture of nontransformed gastrointestinal epithelial cells from the human duodenal mucosa. Biopsies obtained from human duodenum were finely minced. The tissue fragments were suspended in culture medium supplemented with 5% fetal calf serum and the appropriate antibiotics. The suspended mucosal fragments generated spheroid-like multicellular vesicles consisting of highly prismatic absorptive and goblet cells retaining most of the histological features of the tissue in vivo. We performed immunocytochemical studies to determine the origin of the vesicles using monoclonal antibodies against EP4. The histochemistry of the vesicles showed alkaline phosphatase activity. Ultrastructural studies revealed that these cells exhibit characteristics of normal duodenal cells in vivo: apical microvilli, glycocalyx, tight junctions and desmosomes, lateral membrane interdigitations, mucous droplets, and a well-developed Golgi apparatus. An overgrowth of the vesicles by fibroblasts was not seen during cultivation. In contrast with the two-dimensional cell cultures grown on artificial supports, the vesicle cells show organization similar to that of natural epithelia. The polarization and cytoarchitecture of normal gastrointestinal epithelial cells cultured as 3-D vesicles are comparable to those known for the native tissue. This study was undertaken to provide a morphological baseline for subsequent infection experiments.
4295255|The insect steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone initiates a cascade of regulatory events in a temporal and tissue-specific manner by first binding to a complex of an ecdysone receptor (EcR) protein and a ultraspiracle protein. Using an antisense (As) ribonucleic acid approach, we show that disruption of EcR expression in transfected C7-10 cells from the mosquito Aedes albopictus affects survival and growth. From stably transfected cells, we recovered a new isoform of A. albopictus AalEcRa, which is named AalEcRb. The deduced amino acid sequence of AalEcRb was almost identical to that of AalEcRa, with the exception of a seven amino acid sequence near the C-terminus. Using polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction enzyme analysis, we found that AalEcRa is the predominant species expressed by wild-type C7-10 cells, while cells transfected with As-EcR expressed both isoforms at approximately equal levels.
4295711|Three-dimensional epithelial culture models are widely used to emulate a more physiologically relevant microenvironment for the study of genes and signaling pathways. Prostate epithelial cells can grow into solid cell masses or acinus-like spheroids in Matrigel. To test if the ability to form acinus-like spheroids in Matrigel is dependent on how undifferentiated a cell is or whether it is tumor or nontumor, we established six novel epithelial cell lines. Primary prostate epithelial cells were immortalized using HPV16 E6 gene transduction and were named Shmac 2, 3, and 6 (nontumor); Shmac 4, Shmac 5, and P4E6 (tumor). All cell lines were phenotyped in monolayer culture, and their ability to form acinus-like spheroids in Matrigel investigated. The cell lines exhibited a wide range of population doubling times and all showed an intermediate phenotype in monolayer culture (
4294197| By using p-nitrophenyl--D-glucopyranoside as substrate, -glucosidase activity was observed in fetal bovine serum (FBS). This activity could be inhibited by heat inactivation of the serum. Gel chromatography of FBS indicated the presence of -glucosidase activity with an apparent molecular mass of 29 kDa. In McCoy's 5A medium supplemented with non-heat inactivated FBS, the diglucoside hypoxoside ([E]-l,5-bis[4'-D-glucopyranosyloxy-3'-hydroxyphenyl]pent-4-en-1-yne) showed cytotoxicity toward B16-F10-BL-6 mouse melanoma cells. In incubations where the media were supplemented with FBS previously heat inactivated at 56 C for 1 h or more, no cytotoxicity was observed in the presence of hypoxoside. The aglucone of hypoxoside, rooperol ([E]-l,5-bis[3',4'-dihydroxyphenyl]pent-4-en-1-yne), showed cytotoxicity regardless of whether the serum was heat inactivated or not. The kinetics of the heat inactivation of the -glucosidase activity in FBS coincided with the loss of apparent cytotoxicity of hypoxoside. High performance liquid chromatography analysis showed that rooperol could be generated by incubation of hypoxoside in non-heat inactivated FBS, but that this ability was lost in serum that was heat inactivated for 1 h or longer. Newborn bovine serum did not contain any -glucosidase activity whereas it was found in three different commercial sources of FBS. This observation is of practical importance because conventional heat inactivation of FBS at 56 C for 30 min was not sufficient to inactivate the -glucosidase activity completely. 
41417644|We report a cell line (hBSM) established from human urinary bladder wall smooth muscle that maintains most of the phenotypic characteristics of smooth muscle cells. Cells were dissociated from the muscular layer with collagenase (1 mg/ml) and collected and grown in M199 supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum and 1% antibioticantimycotic. Primary cultures were grown for 2 d and small colonies were isolated by placing glass rings around the colonies. These colonies were picked up with a fine-tipped Pasteur pipette and subcultured. This procedure was repeated several times until a culture with a uniform stable morphology was obtained. hBSM cells are elongated with tapered ends, and in high density cultures, they form swirls of cells arranged in parallel. These cells have a doubling time of approximately 72 h. Western blotting and immunofluorescence microscopy revealed stable expression of smooth muscle-specific proteins, including myosin isoforms (N-terminal isoforms SM-A/B and C-terminal isoforms SM1/2), SM22, -smooth muscle actin, h-caldesmon, Ca-dependent myosin light chain kinase, and protein kinase G. These cells contract upon exposure to 10 M bethanechol and this contraction is reversible by washing away the drug. Karyotyping showed tetraploidy with a modal chromosome number of 87, with multiple rearrangements. To our knowledge, the hBSM cell line is the first human cell line established from bladder wall smooth muscle that expresses both N-and C-terminal smooth muscle myosin isoforms. This cell line will provide a valuable tool for studying transcriptional regulation of smooth muscle myosin isoforms and effects of drugs on cellular function.
4294148|Bafilomycin A
4294815|Microvascular endothelial cells (MVEC), which differ from large vessel endothelial cells, have been isolated successfully from lungs of various species, including man. However, contamination by nonendothelial cells remains a major problem in spite of several technical improvements. In view of the organ specificity of MVEC, endothelial cells should be derived from the tissue involved in the diseases one wishes to study. Therefore, to investigate some of the immunopathological mechanisms leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), we have attempted to isolate lung MVEC from patients undergoing thoracic surgery for lung carcinoma and patients dying of ARDS. The method described here includes four main steps: (1) full digestion of pulmonary tissue with trypsin and collagenase, (2) aggregation of MVEC induced by human plasma, (3) Percoll density centrifugation, and (4) selection and transfer of MVEC after local digestion with trypsin/EDTA under light microscopy. Normal and ARDS-derived lung MVEC purified by this technique presented contact inhibition (i.e., grew in monolayer), and expressed classical endothelial markers, including von Willebrand factor (vWF), platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1(PECAM-1, CD31), and transcripts for the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE). The cells also formed capillarylike structures, took up high levels of acetylated low-density lipoprotein (Ac-LDL), and exhibited ELAM-1 inducibility in response to TNF. Contaminant cells, such as fibroblasts, smooth muscle cells, or pericytes, were easily recognized on the basis of morphology and were eliminated by selection of plasma-aggregated cells under light microscopy. The technique presented here allows one to study the specific involvement and contribution of pulmonary endothelium in various lung diseases.
4294604|The aim of this study was to test the versatility of a new basal cell culture medium, GTSF-2. In addition to traditional growth-factors, GTSF-2 contains a blend of three sugars (glucose, galactose, and fructose) at their physiological levels. For these studies, we isolated normal endothelial cells from human, bovine, and rat large blood vessels and microvessels. In addition, GTSF-2 was also tested as a replacement for high-glucose-containing medium for PC12 pheochromocytoma cells and for other, transformed cell lines. The cell growth characteristics were assessed with a novel cell viability and proliferation assay, which is based on the bioreduction of the fluorescent dye, Alamar Blue. After appropriate calibration, the Alamar Blue assay was found to be equivalent to established cell proliferation assays. Alamar Blue offers the advantage that cell proliferation can be measured in the same wells over an extended period of time. For some of the cell types (e.g., endothelial cells isolated from the bovine aorta, the rat adrenal medulla, or the transformed cells), proliferation in unmodified GTSF-2 was equivalent to that in the original culture media. For others cell types (e.g., human umbilical vein endothelial cells and PC12 cells), GTSF-2 proved to be a superior growth medium, when supplemented with simple additives, such as endothelial cell growth supplement (bFGF) or horse serum. Our results suggest that GTSF-2 is a versatile basal medium that will be useful for studying organ-specific differentiation in heterotypic coculture studies.
20869547|Alpinia galanga has been used as alternative medicine for anti-rheumatic activities. However, the precise action of the extract on arthritic diseases is not yet fully understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of A. galanga extracts on the expression of genes involved in catabolic activities in an interleukin-1 (IL-1)-induced human synovial fibroblast as an inflammatory model. Confluent primary human synovial fibroblasts were treated for 24 h with A. galanga hexane extracts in the presence of recombinant human IL-1. MMPs in the culture medium were monitored by gelatin zymography. Total RNA was isolated from the cell lysate and analyzed via semi-quantitative RT-PCR. After treatment with A. galanga extracts, MMP-2 activity in the culture medium was significantly reduced. In addition, MMP-1, MMP-3, MMP-13, and Cox-2 expression were downregulated. These data suggest that the decrease of gene expression and production of MMPs in synovial fibroblasts against inflammatory stimuli could be due to the effects of the A. galanga extracts. Therefore, A. galanga extracts might be a promising therapeutic agent for arthritis.
23481754|Cultured cells provide an important in vitro system for examining metabolic interactions between the intracellular bacterium, Wolbachia pipientis, and its insect hosts. To test whether Wolbachia-associated changes in antioxidant activities could provide a tool to select for infected cells, we tested the effects of paraquat (PQ) on Aedes albopictus mosquito cells. Like mammalian cells, mosquito cells tolerate PQ over a wide range of concentrations, and for considerable lengths of time, depending on cell density at the time of treatment. When mosquito cells were plated at low density and allowed to grow in the presence of PQ, we measured an LC 50 of approximately 12 M. Unexpectedly, cells persistently infected with Wolbachia strain wStr, from the planthopper Laodelphax striatellus, grew to higher densities in the presence of 1.5 M PQ than in its absence. This effect of PQ was similar to the improved growth of host cells that occurs in the presence of antibiotics that suppress the Wolbachia infection. A more detailed examination of growth and metabolic sensitivity indicated that wStr is about 10-fold more sensitive to PQ than the mosquito host cells. Microscopic examination confirmed that Wolbachia levels were reduced in PQ-treated cells, and DNA estimates based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) indicated that Wolbachia abundance decreased by approximately 100-fold over a 10-d period. Although Wolbachia genomes encode superoxide dismutase, inspection of annotated genomes indicates that they lack several genes encoding products that ameliorate oxidative damage, including catalase, which converts the PQ byproduct, hydrogen peroxide, to molecular oxygen and water. We suggest that loss of multiple genes that participate in repair of oxidative damage accounts for increased sensitivity of Wolbachia to PQ, relative to its host cells.
4294817|Previous work has suggested that not all immunoreactive angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in tissues or cells is in a biologically active state. We have explored this possibility in cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), one of the most widely studied in vitro endothelial cell systems. Our approach included characterization of the effect of increasing passage number on ACE activity and expression of immunoreactive ACE at the single cell level, the subcellular compartmentalization of active ACE, and the effect of phorbol ester (PMA) treatment. We found that both ACE activity and expression of ACE antigen were downregulated by cultivation (30% of ACE-positive cells at seventh passage vs. 90% in primary culture). ACE downregulation is specific (number of CD31-positive cells did not change with cultivation) and correlated with downregulation of factor VIII-antigen. The percentage of ACE-positive cells in permeabilized HUVEC at third passage was almost twice that in nonpermeabilized HUVEC (90% vs. 50%), indicating that HUVEC contain intracellular immunoreactive ACE. ACE activity, however, was similar when measured in intact cells and in cell lysates. Moreover, diazonium salt of sulfanilic acid (DASA), a membrane-impermeable ACE inhibitor, inhibited ACE activity in intact cells and in cell lysates at the same extent, thus implying that intracellular ACE is inactive. PMA (100 nM) treatment increased the percentage of ACE-positive cells at third passage from 57 to 96%. ACE activity was increased 3-fold in cell and 1.5-fold in the culture medium of PMA-treated cells. Analysis of ACE activity in intact monolayers and cell lysates of control and PMA-treated cells revealed that all enzymatically active ACE in PMA-treated cells is localized on the plasma membrane and acts as an ectoenzyme. We conclude that expression of ACE by HUVEC is downregulated by repeated passage in culture but can be restored by PMA treatment. In addition, ACE expression is heterogeneous between neighboring cells, and total immunoreactive ACE protein associated with HUVEC includes an inactive pool of the enzyme.
4295417|The genus Morone is an important one for U.S. aquaculture, but there has been no available cell line from this genus. We report here a cell line (the WBE line) derived from white bass embryos that has been grown for more than 80 passages over 21 mo in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum. The WBE line showed epithelial features with positive immunohistochemical staining for cytokeratin and intercellular junctions when observed by electron microscopy. The doubling time, transformation characteristics, response to cryopreservation, and karyotype were determined. The WBE line was also tested by polymerase chain reaction to verify the species of origin and to screen for mycoplasma infection. This epithelial cell line may prove useful for the study of host-pathogen interactions that occur at the epithelial surface in this commercially important fish species.
4294752| The type III receptor for transforming growth factor beta (TGF), which exhibits no kinase activity, binds TGF1 and TGF2 and is involved in assembly and activity of the multi-subunit TGF signal transduction complex. Recently we showed that TGF receptor type III (TRIII) can participate in a complex composed of the dimeric TGF ligand and a type III, II, and I receptor subunit. The interaction of the TRIII subunit with TRII is TGF-dependent, whereas interaction with TRI is TGF-independent. Here we use coexpression of the three types of TGF receptors in baculoviral-infected insect cells to determine which parts of the unglycosylated TRIII receptor participate in the binding of TGF, the TGF-dependent interaction with TRII and the TGF-independent interaction with TRI. The results suggest that the first 500 amino acid residues in the aminoterminal portion of TRIII exhibit all three properties. 
40602790|Nucleic acid aptamers are regarded as rivals for antibodies and as such are being investigated for their therapeutic potential. In the present work, it is shown that two different high-affinity DNA aptamers developed previously by Ferreira et al. against MUCl antigen (designated MUC1-5TR-1 and MUC1-S1.3/S2.2) on MCF7 breast cancer cells can be linked to the first component of complement (C1q) via a biotin-streptavidin system and induce significant killing of MCF7 cells in vitro. Cell viability was assessed by Trypan blue uptake and absorbance at 590 nm of stained cells following buffer washes and lysis in 1% SDS. While the killing effect is demonstrable versus various controls, dependent on aptamer dose, and reproducible, it appears to kill maximally about half of treated MCF7 cells. Possible reasons for the marginal killing effect include antigenic shedding in vitro and membrane-bound complement regulatory proteins (mCRPs) on the cell surface such as CD46, CD55, and CD59 which act to inhibit complement-mediated lysis of cells. Future in vitro research could benefit from application of mCRP-specific aptamers in combination with anti-MUC1 aptamers to overcome surface protective mechanisms while attacking the plasma membrane of MCF7 cells or other MUC1-expressing cancer cells. However, in vivo such a combination could have deleterious effects on normal MUC1-expressing cells as well.
4294885|The behavior of a recently described cell line, HH25, derived from normal human hepatocytes, has been investigated on several different substrates-tissue-culture plastic, glass, a thin layer of rat-tail collagen I, and thin layers or thick gels of extracellular matrix derived from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm murine sarcoma (EHS matrix). Cellular morphology, proliferation, and secretion of three hepatocyte-specific proteins (albumin, 
41318698|Embryonic stem (ES) cell-based cardiac muscle repair using tissue-engineered scaffolds is an attractive prospective treatment option for patients suffering from heart disease. In this study, our aim was to characterize mouse ES cell-derived cardiomyocytes growing on collagen I/III scaffolds, modified with the adhesion peptides arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD). Mouse ES-derived embryoid bodies (EBs) differentiated efficiently into beating cardiomyocytes on the collagen scaffolds. QPCR analysis and immunofluorescent staining showed that cardiomyocytes expressed cardiac muscle-related transcripts and proteins. Analysis of cardiomyocytes by electron microscopy identified muscle fiber bundles and Z bands, typical of ES-derived cardiomyocytes. No differences were detected between the collagen+ RGD and collagen control scaffolds. ES cells that were not differentiated as EBs prior to seeding on the scaffold, did not differentiate into cardiomyocytes. These results indicate that a collagen I/III scaffold supports cardiac muscle development and function after EB formation, and that this scaffold appears suitable for future in vivo testing. The addition of the RGD domain to the collagen scaffold did not improve cardiomyocyte development or viability, indicating that RGD signaling to integrins was not a rate-limiting event for cardiomyogenesis from EBs seeded on a collagen scaffold.
4295120|Violacein, a pigment produced by Chromobacterium violaceum, is reported to be a potential drug for the treatment of Chagas' disease. Violacein is also effective against leukemia and lymphoma cells in culture (
4295477|The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) function has been considered to contribute to various human tumors and malignant growth of neoplasm. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a typical hypervascular tumor, and it is suggested that FGF may be involved in hepatocarcinogenesis. Therefore, the relationship between the progression of HCC and expression of FGFs and FGF receptors (FGFRs) was evaluated in this study. We investigated the expression of messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) of FGFs and FGFRs by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis in eight human hepatoma-derived cell lines (Hep3B, HLE, HLF, HUH6, HUH7, KIM1, Li7, and PLC/PRF/5), one hepatoblastoma-derived cell line (HepG2), and human primary hepatocytes. In addition, effects of FGF-1, FGF-2, and FGF-7 on the growth of hepatoma-derived cell lines were studied in serum-free defined culture conditions. An RT-PCR analysis revealed that all cell lines except PLC/PRF/5 expressed all FGFR mRNAs: FGF-R1 (IIIc), -R2 (IIIb), -R2 (IIIc), -R3 (IIIb), -R3 (IIIc), and -R4 mRNAs. In contrast, human primary hepatocytes expressed FGF-R1 (IIIc), -R3 (IIIc), and -R4 mRNAs but not mRNAs of FGF-R2 (IIIb), -R2 (IIIc), and -R3 (IIIb). All cell lines except HUH6 and HUH7 expressed FGF-1 and FGF-2 mRNAs. Addition of exogenous FGF-1 or FGF-2 (or both) to culture stimulated cell proliferation in several cell lines, but FGF-7 exhibited no growth stimulation in all cells. Hepatoma cells may possess a proliferation mechanism regulated by an autocrine mechanism, a paracrine mechanism, or both, which are mediated by FGF-1/FGFR or FGF-2/FGFR (or both). In addition, a gain of FGF-R2 (IIIb), -R2 (IIIc), and -R3 (IIIb) may be associated with malignant transformation of liver tumor and may eventually serve as useful diagnostic and prognostic indicators.
4295654|Tiny particles were found in the medium in the presence of the human leukemia cell line Kasumi-6. The particles were separated from human cells by filtration and incubated in RPMI1640 supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum at 37 C. The particles increased in number very slowly in the liquid medium but did not reveal any biological activity. Transmission electron microscopy of the particles showed a spheroid or ovoid shape in ultrathin section. No specific polypeptides from the purified particles were detected by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), except for bovine fetuin that adsorbed to the surface of the particles. X-ray diffractometry as well as Fourier transform infrared spectrometry suggested the particles consisted of hydroxyapatite. The mechanism of self-propagation of the hydroxyapatite particles in liquid medium is currently unknown. This type of particle has been overlooked for a long period because it is noncultivable. It will be necessary to examine its biological effects to the cultured cells.
4295451|Both retinoic acid (RA) and transforming growth factor
40981263|RNA interference (RNAi) can induce gene silencing via two pathways: post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) and transcriptional gene silencing (TGS). The mediators of gene inactivation in both pathways are 21-bp small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) generated from longer double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). PTGS involves siRNA-mediated targeting and degradation of mRNA. However, siRNAs induce TGS via DNA methylation at the targeted promoter. Synthetic siRNAs can induce loss of gene activity comparable to long dsRNA. The limitation of this method is that the transfected synthetic siRNA works for only a few days. In this study, we tested the RNAi response to siRNA (PTGS pathway) by using a plasmid containing an enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) gene as a target as well as a plasmid creates siRNA transcript, in a form of a hairpin, against eGFP gene. To investigate TGS pathway via RNAi, we also used a plasmid creates hairpin siRNA transcript against pgk-1 promoter. The data presented here indicated long-lasting inhibition in expression of eGFP and puromycin genes, both under the control of the murine Pgk-1 promoter. However, Southern blot analysis showed no methylation in pgk-1 promoter.
40205809|To explore effects of Forsythia koreana methanol extract (FKME) on mast cell-mediated allergic and inflammatory properties, the effect of FKME was evaluated on compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis, ear swelling, and anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) immunoglobulin E (IgE)-induced passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA). In addition, the effect of FKME was investigated on the histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells (RPMCs) stimulated by compound 48/80, which promotes histamine release. The human mast cell line HMC-1 was stimulated by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate plus calcium ionophore A23187. Acti vated HMC-1 can produce several proinflammatory and chemotactic cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-8. Cytokine levels in the culture supernatant were measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Cytotoxicity by FKME was determined by a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. FKME inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylactic shock and ear swelling in mice. When 1 g/kg FKME was pretreated or posttreated with mice, compound 48/80-induced mice morality was 50 and 66.7%, respectively. One gram per kilogram of FKME pretreatment inhibited ear-swelling responses derived from compound 48/80 by 29.75%. A PCA reaction was inhibited by 17.9%. In an in vitro model, FKME (1 mg/ml) inhibited histamine release from the RPMCs by 13.8% and TNF-, IL-6, and IL-8 production from HMC-1 cells by 71.16% (P<0.001), 86.72% (P<0.001), and 44.6%, respectively. However, FKME had no cytotoxic effects on cell viability. In conclusion, FKME inhibited not only systemic anaphylaxis and ear swelling induced by compound 48/80 but also inhibited a PCA reaction induced by anti-DNP IgE in vivo. Treatment with FKME showed significant inhibitory effects on histamine, TNF-, IL-6, and IL-8 release from mast cells.
4295460| In the present study, culture conditions that promote the growth and differentiation of manatee respiratory tract epithelial cells toward a mucociliary phenotype were determined. Characterization of a manatee-specific cell line enables investigators to conduct in vitro testing where live-animal experimentation is not possible. Cell cultures were established from both explants and enzymatically dissociated cells that were isolated from manatee bronchial tissue. To modulate their differentiation, bronchial epithelial cells were grown on Transwell collagen membranes either submerged or at an air-liquid interface. Growth on a collagen membrane at an air-liquid interface and medium supplemented with retinoic acid was required to promote a mucociliary phenotype. When cells were grown in submerged cultures without retinoic acid, they appeared more squamous and were not ciliated. Intracellular keratin proteins were detected in both submerged and interface cultures. Cultured manatee bronchial epithelial cells will facilitate future studies to investigate their potential role in pulmonary disease associated with brevetoxicosis after exposure to the red-tide organism, Karenia brevis. 
4295636|Insect cell lines from Arthropoda represented by Lepidoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, and Homoptera were evaluated for their ability to support replication of AcMNPV. In addition, some of the cell lines that were refractive to AcMNPV were tested with AcMNPV hsp70 Red, a recombinant carrying the red fluorescent protein (RFP) gene, for their ability to express this protein after inoculation. Of the 10 lepidopteran cell lines tested, only three cell lines from Helicoverpa zea (BCIRL-HZ-AM1), Lymantria dispar (IPLB-LD 65), and Cydia pomonella (CP-169) failed to support detectable viral replication as measured by tissue culture infectious dose 50 (TCID
40205820|It is reported that adult multipotent stem cells can undergo spontaneous transformation after long-term in vitro culture. Understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in this spontaneous transformation process can help in the design of future therapeutic applications. By far, the transformation process of adult multipotent stem cell is not well understood. In this study, a tumorigenic cell line nominated TDMC1 was established from a clonal population of rat dermis-derived multipotent cells (DMCs) following spontaneous transformation in culture. The transformed cells could produce tumors with characteristics of fibrous histocytoma when they are inoculated subcutaneously into nude mice. The molecular profiles of the nontransformed DMCs and transformed cells were analyzed by a deoxyribonucleic acid microarray. Our results showed that the overactivation of the K-ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase signaling pathway played an important role in the transformation process. These data may be helpful to explain, at least in part, the possible mechanism for the malignant transformation of adult multipotent cells.
24596455|In this study, we aimed to study the role of growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2) in palmitic acid-induced steatosis and other "fatty liver" symptoms in vitro. HepG2 cells, with or without stably suppressed Grb2 expression, were incubated with palmitic acid for 24 h to induce typical clinical "fatty liver" features, including steatosis, impaired glucose metabolism, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. MTT and Oil Red O assays were applied to test cell viability and fat deposition, respectively. Glucose uptake assay was used to evaluate the glucose utilization of cells. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot were used to measure expressional changes of key markers of insulin signaling, lipid/glucose metabolism, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. After 24-h palmitic acid induction, increased fat accumulation, reduced glucose uptake, impaired insulin signaling, enhanced oxidative stress, and increased apoptosis were observed in HepG2 cells. Suppression of Grb2 in HepG2 significantly reduced fat accumulation, improved glucose metabolism, ameliorated oxidative stress, and restored the activity of insulin receptor substrate-1/Akt and MEK/ERK pathways. In addition, Grb2 deficiency attenuated hepatic apoptosis shown by reduced activation of caspase-3 and fluorescent staining. Modulation of Bcl-2 and Bak1 also contributed to reduced apoptosis. In conclusion, suppression of Grb2 expression in HepG2 cells improved hepatic steatosis, glucose metabolism, oxidative stress, and apoptosis induced by palmitic acid incubation partly though modulating the insulin signaling pathway.
4295101|A cell line derived from embryonic tissues of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (UMC-OnE), was established in EX-CELL 401 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum. The cells grew in suspension, and were mainly spherical in shape. The cell doubling times at the 17th and 79th passages were 56 and 36 h, respectively. DNA amplification fingerprinting showed that the DNA profile of the OnE cell line was different from that of the southwestern corn borer, Diatraea grandiosella (UMC-DgE), and that of the cotton bollworm, Helicoverpa zea (BCIRL-HZ-AM1). The OnE cell line was responsive to treatments of 20-hydroxyecdysone and the ecdysone agonists, methoxyfenozide (RH-2485) and tebufenozide (RH-5992). These compounds caused similar effects on the cells, which included cell clumping and decreased cell proliferation. The clumps were observed on the third day of incubation, and became larger after 7 d of incubation. After 168 h of incubation, methoxyfenozide and tebufenozide were 35 and 11 times more effective, respectively, in inhibiting proliferation of the OnE cells than was 20-hydroxyecdysone.
4295251| Pancreatic islets, isolated from neonatal pigs, and Sertoli cells, isolated from prepubertal rats, were cocultured in simulated microgravity utilizing the NASA-developed highly accelerating, rotating vessel (HARV) biochamber. Following 5 d of incubation, three-dimensional Sertoli-islet cell aggregates (SICA) retained the ability to secrete insulin when exposed to elevated glucose. SICA contained FasL-positive Sertoli cells and insulin-positive -cells randomly organized within the spherical construct. The addition of 1% Matrigel induced the reorganization of aggregates (SICAs formed in the presence of Matrigel [SICAmgs]) showing the peripherialization and epithelialization of Sertoli cells and the centralization of islets in association with lumen-like spaces. The Sertoli cells, but not Matrigel, aided in preserving the structural integrity of HARV-incubated islets. Neither Matrigel nor Sertoli cells appeared to interfere with the ability of SICA or SICAmg to secrete insulin and express FasL. 
40205917|A central feature of intussusceptive angiogenesis is the development of an intravascular pillar that bridges the opposing sides of the microvessel lumen. In this report, we created polydimethyl siloxane (PDMS) microchannels with geometric proportions based on corrosion casts of the colon microcirculation. The structure of the PDMS microchannels was a bifurcated channel with an intraluminal pillar in the geometric center of the bifurcation. The effect of the intraluminal pillar on particle flow paths was investigated using an in vitro perfusion system. The microchannels were perfused with fluorescent particles, and the particle movements were recorded using fluorescence videomicroscopy. We found that the presence of an intravascular pillar significantly decreased particle velocity in the bifurcation system (p<0.05). In addition, the pillar altered the trajectory of particles in the center line of the flow stream. The particle trajectory resulted in prolonged pillar contact as well as increased residence time within the bifurcation system (p<0.001). Our results suggest that the intravascular pillar not only provides a mechanism of increasing resistance to blood flow but may also participate in spatial redistribution of cells within the flow stream.
4295645|Germ line mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for a large proportion of inherited breast and ovarian cancer. Both genes are involved in DNA repair by homologous recombination and are thought to play a vital role in maintaining genomic stability. A major drawback for long-term functional studies of BRCA in general and BRCA2 in particular has been a lack of representative human breast epithelial cell lines. In the present study, we have established three cell lines from two patients harboring the 999del5 germ line founder mutation in the BRCA2 gene. Primary cultures were established from cellular outgrowth of explanted tissue and subsequently transfected with a retroviral construct containing the HPV-16 E6 and E7 oncogenes. Paired cancer-derived and normal-derived cell lines were established from one patient referred to as BRCA2-999del5-2T and BRCA2-999del5-2N, respectively. In addition, one cell line was derived from cancer-associated normal tissue from another patient referred to as BRCA2-999del5-lN. All three cell lines showed characteristics of breast epithelial cells as evidenced by expression of breast epithelial specific cytokeratins. Cytogenetic analysis showed marked chromosomal instability with tetraploidy and frequent telomeric associations. In conclusion, we have established three breast epithelial cell lines from two patients carrying the BRCA2 Icelandic 999del5 founder mutation. These cell lines form the basis for further studies on carcinogenesis and malignant progression of breast cancer on a defined genetic background.
4295595| Uridine 5'-diphospho-N-acetylgalactosamine glycosyltransferases (UGTs) and sulfotransferases (SULTs) are 2 phase II enzymes that are actively involved in detoxification processes as well as in drug metabolism. Compared with cytochrome P450 enzymes, the role of UGTs and SULTs in drug metabolism has received little attention. Liver microsomes, S9 fractions, and cryopreserved hepatocytes from human, dog, cynomolgus monkey, mouse, and rat were used as matrices in the study. Single compound, 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-HC), along with necessary cofactors was dosed into the matrices and incubated at 37 C; formation of two metabolites, 7-HC-glucuronide and 7-HC-sulfate, was determined with liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Within the same species, the UGTs activities in microsomes and S9 fractions were comparable. In addition, UGTs activities in cryopreserved hepatocytes were lower than in the other matrices. Also, the SULTs activities were much higher in S9 fractions than in cryopreserved hepatocytes and microsomes. Species differences on UGTs and SULTs activities were also observed. The results indicated that S9 fractions, microsomes, and cryopreserved hepatocytes might be useful for UGTs metabolism study, whereas S9 fractions appear to be the most appropriate matrix for both UGTs and SULTs metabolism. Species differences with respect to phase II metabolism also need to be taken into consideration when selecting an in vitro system to evaluate various aspects of drug metabolism. 
20869583|Presence of specific growth factors and feeder layers are thought to be important for in vitro embryonic stem cell (ESCs) differentiation. In this study, the effect of bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) co-culture system on germ cell differentiation from mouse ESCs was evaluated. One-day-old embryoid body was cultured for 4 d in simple culture systems or on top of the MEFs, both in the presence or absence of BMP4. Data showed significant higher viability percent and proliferation rate in simple culture media compared to co-culture systems. Analysis of gene expression indicated that the germ cell-specific genes (VASA and Stra8) were expressed in a significant higher ratio in BMP4-treated cells in simple culture system. Also, the results of immunocytochemistry in simple culture systems showed that the mean percentage of immunostaining cells of VASA, the primordial germ cell (PGC) marker, was increased significantly in BMP4-treated cells compared with BMP4-free group. Meanwhile, CDH1, the late premiotic germ cell marker, showed no significant difference between these two groups. The results suggest that BMP4 is an efficient inducer in PGC derivation from mouse ESC. However, the employment of MEFs as feeder has no apparent effect on PGC derivation.
4294952|Six insect cell lines from Pseudaletia unipuncta embryos were established and characterized, and their susceptibility to Autographa californica multiple nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) infection was investigated. These embryonic P. unipuncta cell lines had characteristics distinct from each other in morphology and growth, and showed differential responses to AcMNPV infection. Among the six cell lines, two were highly susceptible to virus infection. One of these two cell lines, BTI-Pu-A7S, produced over 100 AcMNPV occlusion bodies per cell, on average. Three cell lines showed an apoptotic response following AcMNPV infection. One cell line did not support complete virus replication through the late phase of virus growth and did not exhibit apoptosis. The P. unipuncta cell lines could be distinguished from SF21 and BTI-Tn-5B1-4 cells by their isozyme markers.
4295087| Type IV collagen is a major basement membrane component that has been implicated in the regulation of angiogenesis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of type IV collagen on the angiogenic response of native endothelial cells in three-dimensional vascular organ culture. Rings of rat aorta were cultured under serum-free conditions in gels of type I collagen with or without type IV collagen. In the absence of type IV collagen, aortic rings generated neovessels, which proliferated until day 9 and gradually regressed during the second and third weeks of culture. Type IV collagen promoted neovessel elongation and survival in a dose-dependent manner. Microvascular length increased by 43, 57, and 119% over control values in cultures treated with 3, 30, and 300 g/ml type IV collagen, respectively. When used at high concentrations (300 g/ml) type IV collagen stabilized the neovascular outgrowths and prevented vascular regression. Type IV collagen also promoted the formation of neovessels, but significant stimulatory effects were observed only at an intermediate concentration (30 g/ml) and were no longer significant at the high concentration (300 g/ml). The observation that type IV collagen has dose-dependent effects on vascular elongation, proliferation, and stabilization, supports the concept that the developing basement membrane of neovessels acts as a solid-phase regulator of angiogenesis, whose function varies depending on the concentration of its molecular components. 
40663801|Human embryonic stem (hES) cells were originally isolated and maintained on mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) feeder layers in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS). However, if the hES cells are to be used for therapeutic applications, it is preferable to regulatory authorities that they be derived and cultured in animal-free conditions to prevent mouse antigen contamination that would exacerbate an immune response to foreign proteins, and the potential risk of transmission of retro viral and other zoonotic pathogens to humans. As a step towards this goal, we derived a new hES cell line (MISCES-01) on human adult skin fbroblasts as feeder cells using serum replacement (SR) medium. The MISCES-01 cells have a normal diploid karyotype (46XX), express markers of pluripotency (OCT4, GCTM-2, TRA-1-60, TRA-1-81, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, and alkaline phosphatase) and following in vitro and in vivo differentiation, give rise to derivatives of the three primary germ layers. This cell line can be obtained for research purposes from the Australian Stem Cell Centre (http://www.stemcellcentre.edu.au).
20869581|Humic acids are known for their overall positive health and productivity effects in animal feeding trials and, controversially, as an aetiological factor of cancer. We tried to assess the in vitro effect of humic acids from a selected source in Slovakia when used at recommended prophylactic dosage. We investigated antioxidant properties, enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant defence system in liver mitochondria and cultured cancer cell lines in vitro. We observed a significant decrease in superoxide dismutase activity after humic acids treatment irrespective of dissolving in dimethyl sulphoxide or direct addition to mitochondria suspension in a respiration medium. Activities of other antioxidant enzymes measured, such as glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase, showed no significant differences from the control as well as the reduced glutathione content. Percentage of inhibition by humic acids of superoxide radical indicated lower efficacy compared with that of hydroxyl radical. Survival of six different cancer cells lines indicated that only the acute T lymphoblastic leukaemia cell line was sensitive to the tested humic acids. Despite relatively low solubility in aqueous solutions, humic acids from the selected source participated in redox regulation. By recapturing the radicals, humic acids reloaded the antioxidant defensive mechanism. Results from in vitro study conducted with humic acids from the natural source showed potential of these substances as promising immunity enhancing agents.
4295653|UDP glycosyltransferases (UGTs) and sulfotransferases (SULTs) are phase II enzymes that interact with a number of xenobiotics in humans and animals. Species differences in enzymatic characteristics have seldom been investigated. Liver S9 fractions are commonly used for studying phase II metabolism in vitro. The objective of this study was to characterize the UGT and SULT activities in liver S9 fractions from various species including humans, monkeys, dogs, and rats. A single substrate, 7-hydroxycoumarin (7-HC), at several concentrations was incubated at
20616605|We analyzed the physiological role of forkhead box class O 1 (Foxo1) in adipocyte differentiation by suppressing Foxo1 mRNA with siRNA specific for Foxo1. Mouse 3T3-L1 preadipocytes infected with an adenovirus expressing Foxo1-siRNA showed a marked decrease in lipid droplet formation when induced to differentiate into adipocytes. Adipocyte differentiation was most severely inhibited by exposing cells to Foxo1-siRNA before induction of differentiation. The incorporation of fluorescent-labeled glucose and fatty acid was significantly inhibited in cells deficient in Foxo1. RT-PCR revealed that downregulation of Foxo1 decreased the expression of the transcription factors, PPAR- and C/EBP-. By comparison, Foxo1-siRNA did not affect the expression of C/EBP- or C/EBP- during the early period of adipocyte differentiation. These results indicate that Foxo1 plays an essential role in adipocyte differentiation, especially at the very early stage of terminal adipocyte differentiation.
40663755|There are two main epithelial cell types in the secretory tubules of mammalian glands: serous and mucous. The former is believed to secrete predominantly water and antimicrobials, the latter mucins. Primary cultures of human airway gland epithelium have been available for almost 20 yr, but they are poorly differentiated and lack clear features of either serous or mucous cells. In this study, by varying growth supports and media, we have produced cultures from human airway glands that in terms of their ultrastructure and secretory products resemble either mucous or serous cells. Of four types of porous-bottomed insert tested, polycarbonate filters (Transwells) most strongly promoted the mucous phenotype. Coupled with the addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF), this growth support produced "mucous" cells that contained the large electron-lucent granules characteristic of native mucous cells, but lacked the small electron-dense granules characteristic of serous cells. Furthermore, they showed high levels of mucin secretion and low levels of release of lactoferrin and lysozyme (markers of native serous cells). By contrast, growth on polyethylene terephthalate filters (Cyclopore) in medium lacking EGF produced "serous" cells in which small electron-dense granules replaced the electron-lucent ones, and the cells had high levels of lactoferrin and lysozyme but low levels of mucins. Measurements of transepithelial resistance and shortcircuit current showed that both "serous" and "mucous" cell cultures possessed tight junctions, had become polarized, and were actively secreting Cl.
40205842|We studied the expression and mutation of thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1) gene in 92 cases of lung carcinomas comprised of lung adenocarcinoma (36 cases), squamous cell lung carcinoma (42 cases), small cell lung carcinoma (8 cases), and large cell lung carcinoma (6 cases) to investigate whether TTF-1 gene mutation predisposed to the development of lung cancer. Normal lung tissues were obtained from each of the 92 patients. The tissues served as controls. Polymerase chain reactionsingle-strand conformation polymorphism, denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography, and DNA sequencing were used to analyze TTF-1 gene mutation and its relationship with the carcinogenesis of lung cancer. We detected the expression of TTF-1 protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) in paraffin-embedded lung carcinomas and their normal lung tissues by tissue microarray. TTF-1 protein and mRNA intensities were measured by Leica-Q500 MC Image Analysis System to reveal their correlation with TTF-1 mutation in lung carcinomas. TTF-1 gene missense and synonymous mutation are present in lung carcinomas with the mutation rate of 16%. TTF-1 protein and mRNA are higher in normal lung tissues than in different lung carcinomas. TTF-1 gene mutation is correlated with the loss of TTF-1 protein and mRNA. The analyses of TTF-1 gene missense mutation and synonymous mutation and the loss of TTF-1 protein and mRNA can be regarded as the important indexes of molecular pathology of lung carcinoma.
4294927|The differentiation grade of cells in culture is dependent on the composition of the culture medium. Two commonly used myogenic cell lines, mouse C
23353393|Establishment of new animal models using selected cell lines with different behaviour is very important for cancer investigations. In this study, we describe three morphologically distinct rat sarcoma clonesC4, C7 and D6isolated from the R5-28 cell line. Cells of all clones expressed vimentin, fibronectin, laminin, collagen IV and matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9. However, desmin, cytokeratins 8 and 18, ZO-1 and desmoplakins I and II were not detected. Significant proliferative capacity was documented by proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression and BrdU positivity. Karyotype of the C4, C7 and D6 cells greatly differed from diploid chromosome number of normal rat somatic cells. High expression of three cytokinesmonocyte chemoattractant protein 1, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 and vascular endothelial growth factorwas observed in all three clones. However, they varied in concentration of chemokines associated with neutrophil migration and activationcytokine induced neutrophil chemoattractant 2 and lipopolysaccharide induced CXC chemokine. The C4 clone showed spontaneous tumour regression in vivo that was associated with significant changes in lymphocyte subpopulations.
4295041| Sf21 and Sf9 cell lines established from the lepidoptera Spodoptera frugiperda do not display major induction of heat shock proteins when exposed to a temperature of 37 C. After some months of adaptation at 37 C we obtained two new cell lines, Sf21-HT and Sf9-HT, which have now been established for several years in our laboratory. The Sf9-HT line displays a slightly shorter doubling time at 37 C than the wild type at 28 C, but cell lethality gives rise to an earlier growth arrest. The composition of total lipid extract from heat-adapted cells reveals a higher sphingomyelin to phospha-tidylcholine ratio and a higher percentage of saturated fatty acids, which are expected for the lower membrane fluidity, required for thermotolerance. The cell volume of Sf9-HT is doubled, and by flow cytometry we showed that the DNA content is twice that in the parental cell line. Karyotypic examination of metaphasic cells achieved under epifluorescence microscopy revealed a doubled chromosome number in Sf9-HT. 
4294030| In utero, at around 23 wk gestation, the progenitor epithelium of distal airway differentiates into type I and type II pneumatocytes. Human fetal lung organ cultures, as early as 12 wk gestation, have the competence to self-differentiate. Distal airway epithelial immunoreactivity to cytokeratins CK 7, 8, and 18 decreases with differentiation both in utero and in organ culture, whereas reactivity to epithelial membrane antigen remains constant in both. As distal airways dilate, the mean percentage airspace of fetal lungs in organ culture increases to 58%, equivalent to lung of gestation 26.0  7.3 wk. In organ culture, capillary blood vessels, visualized by vimentin immunoreactivity, remodel and more closely approximate the epithelium but without direct invasion. In utero, at 23 wk gestation, elastin appears as condensation around airways and forms a basis for secondary crests which, by 29 wk gestation, evolve into alveolar septae. In organ culture, no elastin is deposited, no secondary or alveolar crests form, and the lung retains a simple saccular structure. Differentiation of the terminal airway epithelium and mesodermal maturational events to facilitate gas exchange, such as capillary invasion or secondary-alveolar crest formation, are almost synchronous in human lung in utero but clearly dissociate in organ culture. 
20172219| Extensive screening of the mitogens lipopolysaccharide (LPS), pokeweed mitogen (PWM), and Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I (SAC I), alone and in combination and with and without interleukin (IL) was performed for in vitro activation of regional lymph node lymphocytes from lung cancer patients for the production of human IgG, IgM, and IgA. As assessed by electrofusion of the lymphocytes following their exposure to these agents with mouse myeloma cells and incubation of the fused hybridoma, a remarkable stimulatory effect was shown by LPS and particularly by LPS plus IL-4, which was substantially greater than that of either SAC I or PWM with or without various IL. Optimization studies indicated that the addition of PWM to LPS and IL-4 in the culture medium further stimulated the human antibody (Ab) production, and that the optimal formulation for stimulation of human IgG production was a culture medium containing 20 g/ml of LPS, 1/500 of PWM, and 100 u/ml of IL-4. 
4295263|Mechanisms for the transduction of photoperiodic and food signals to the corpus allatum (CA) are described. The focus of this paper is on the control of the CA by the brain in adult females of the firebug, Pyrrhocoris apterus. By using surgical interventions to the neuroendocrine complex of brain-subesophageal ganglion-corpora cardiaca-CA (BR-SG-CC-CA) in vivo and in vitro we were able to identify two regulatory pathways. (1) Slow regulation of the CA activity (stimulation or inhibition) needs a relatively long period of time to be accomplished (several d) in vivo and is associated with changes of the gland cell volume and ultrastructure. The stimulated or inhibited activity of the CA is maintained during short-term incubation of the isolated CA in vitro. (2) Fast inhibition of the CA activity is reversible during short-term incubation in vitro; the CA can be switched from lower to higher activity and vice versa, depending on the presence or absence of the BR-SG in the medium. Both slow and fast regulatory factors originate in the pars intercerebralis of the brain and in intact neuroendocrine complex they reach the CA via nerves. A slow inhibitor, induced by short d, causes reproductive diapause. A fast inhibitor prevents ovarian maturation in starved nondiapausing females. A slow stimulator, induced by feeding under long d, overcomes the fast inhibition of the CA, thereby stimulating vitellogenesis. Food signals are transmitted to the brain via humoral pathways.
4294768|A long-term stroma-dependent culture system (LTC) has been developed which continuously produces hemopoietic cells providing an in vitro system for the study of cell differentiation. These nonadherent cell populations contain a large subpopulation of dendritic cells (DC). LTC producing DC were easily generated from spleen, but could also be established from bone marrow (BM) and lymph node with less success. It was difficult to establish DC-producing LTC from thymus. The properties of splenic and thymic stroma have been compared. Spleen stroma developed more complicated networks of fibroblasts, endothelial cells, macrophages, and DC. Thymic stromal monolayers were dominated by epithelial cells and fibroblasts, with a lower proportion of macrophages and endothelial cells. They had a relatively sparse structure of cell networks compared with spleen stroma. Cells with dendritiform morphology first appeared in cultures by 2-3 wk. The majority of cells produced were large cells which expressed DC-specific cell surface markers, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) Class II molecules, and the CD80/CD86(B7) costimulator. A high proportion of cells also expressed myeloid cell markers. No T or B lymphoid cells or granulocytes were present in the cultures. LTC continued to produce nonadherent cells resembling myeloid/DC for long periods, even after passage of stromal cells and stem cells at about 3-4 mo. after culture establishment. The LTC system offers potential to study the in vitro differentiation of myeloid/DC.
4294150|We have established the human hepatoma cell line, HepG2, in a defined, serum-free medium. These cells were maintained and studied over a 100-generation period (i.e. 10 serial transfers). Cells maintained in serum-free medium exhibited growth parameters (i.e. saturation density, efficiency of plating, and population doubling time) similar to those obtained with HepG2 cells maintained in serum-supplemented medium. Serum-free cells were also similar to their serum-supplemented counterparts with respect to the expression of cathepsin B activity and the induction of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase by 2,3,7,8-tetra-chlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. Significantly, HepG2 cells maintained in serum-free conditions also retained the ability to synthesize and secrete proteins, including the liver plasma protein, apo-lipoprotein B. These results indicate that the serum-free medium used in this study supports the long-term growth and maintenance of human hepatoma, HepG2, cells in culture. Inasmuch as these cells retain phenotypes, including differentiated markers previously reported for their serum-supplemented counterparts, they may provide a more reliable, standardized culture system to study the expression, secretion, and regulation of proteins during biological and pathologic processes.
20616603|The immune responses of human lymphoid tissue explants or cells isolated from this tissue were studied quantitatively under normal gravity and microgravity. Microgravity was either modeled by solid body suspension in a rotating, oxygenated culture vessel or was actually achieved on the International Space Station (ISS). Our experiments demonstrate that tissues or cells challenged by recall antigen or by polyclonal activator in modeled microgravity lose all their ability to produce antibodies and cytokines and to increase their metabolic activity. In contrast, if the cells were challenged before being exposed to modeled microgravity suspension culture, they maintained their responses. Similarly, in microgravity in the ISS, lymphoid cells did not respond to antigenic or polyclonal challenge, whereas cells challenged prior to the space flight maintained their antibody and cytokine responses in space. Thus, immune activation of cells of lymphoid tissue is severely blunted both in modeled and true microgravity. This suggests that suspension culture via solid body rotation is sufficient to induce the changes in cellular physiology seen in true microgravity. This phenomenon may reflect immune dysfunction observed in astronauts during space flights. If so, the ex vivo system described above can be used to understand cellular and molecular mechanisms of this dysfunction.
40928170|A very small population of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunoreactive cells is observed in all layers of the adult hippocampus. This is the intrinsic source of the hippocampal cholinergic innervation, in addition to the well-established septo-hippocampal cholinergic projection. This study aimed at quantifying and identifying the origin of this small population of ChAT-immunoreactive cells in the hippocampus at early developmental stages, by culturing the fetal hippocampal neurons in serum-free culture and on a patternable, synthetic silane substrate N-1 [3-(trimethoxysilyl) propyl] diethylenetriamine. Using this method, a large proportion of glutamatergic (glutamate vesicular transporter, VGLUT1-immunoreactive) neurons, a small fraction of GABAergic (GABA-immunoreactive) neurons, and a large proportion of cholinergic (ChATimmunoreactive) neurons were observed in the culture. Interestingly, most of the glutamatergic neurons that expressed glutamate vesicular transporter (VGLUT1) also co-expressed ChAT proteins. On the contrary, when the cultures were double-stained with GABA and ChAT, colocalization was not observed. Neonatal and adult rat hippocampal neurons were also cultured to verify whether these more mature neurons also co-express VGLUT1 and ChAT proteins in culture. Colocalization of VGLUT1 and ChAT in these relatively more mature neurons was not observed. One possible explanation for this observation is that the neurons have the ability to synthesize multiple neurotransmitters at a very early stage of development and then with time follows a complex, combinatorial strategy of electrochemical coding to determine their final fate.
4294532|
               
4295268| The objective of this study was to generate immortalized Sertoli cell lines from prepubertal lamb testes to facilitate investigations during the course of testicular differentiation. The Sertoli cells were enzymatically isolated and immortalized by transfection, with the sequences coding for the SV40 large T-antigen fused downstream of regulatory elements from the human vimentin gene. The different cell lines were positively stained with antibodies to vimentin and transferrin, in agreement with their Sertoli origin. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was used to analyze the specific expression of molecular markers (clusterin/sulfated glycoprotein [SGP-2], follicle-stimulating hormone [rFSH], -inhibin, anti-Mllerian hormone, Wilms' tumor gene [WT-1], steroidogenic factor 1 [SF-1], SRY-related HMG box gene g [SOX9], and sex-determining region of Y chromosome) normally expressed in this cellular type. All were shown to express messenger ribonucleic acids for SGP-2, -inhibin, WT-1, SOX9, and SF-1 (except SF-1 for clone no. 1). Moreover, we performed alkaline phosphatase and receptor tyrosine kinase p145 (c-kit) detection to ensure the absence of contamination by peritubular, germ cells, and Leydig cells. Both tests were negative for all the seven cell lines. These ovine Sertoli cell lines are the first ones obtained from livestock that exhibit specific Sertoli cell characteristics resembling different stages of phenotypic development. They provide useful in vitro model systems for toxicological investigations, coculture, and transfection experiments, making it possible to study signal transduction pathways, cell-cell interactions, and gene expression in species other than rodents. 
4294693|Human osteoblastic cells were isolated enzymatically from adult human spongy bone and grown in MEM-Ham F12 1:1 medium supplemented with 2% Ultroser (USM). They were subcultured and examined for osteoblast features by morphological, histological, and biochemical approaches. The cells had a characteristic polyhedral morphology and produced a high level of alkaline phosphatase (ALKP). Confluent cultures were uniformly stained for ALKP and flow cytometry analysis with fluorescein diphosphate gave a single peak signal, reflecting a highly positive population, distinct from cultures of fibroblasts. The ALKP activity was stimulated by 1,25 (OH)
20172235|The Wnt family of proto-oncogenes encodes secreted signaling proteins that are required for mouse development. The Drosophila Wnt homolog, the wingless (Wg) segment polarity gene, mediates a signal transduction pathway in which the downstream elements appear to be conserved through evolution. One such element, the dishevelled gene product, becomes hyperphosphorylated and translocates to the plasma membrane in response to Wg (Yanagawa et al., 1995). We report here that the mouse Dishevelled-1 (Dvl-1) and Dishevelled-2 genes encode proteins that are differentially localized in Wnt-overexpressing PC12 cell lines (PC12/Wnt). Whereas Dvl-1 and Dvl-2 proteins are limited to the soluble fraction of parental PC12 cells, PC12/Wnt cells display a subset of Dvl-1 protein associated with the membrane and Dvl-2 protein with the cytoskeletal fraction. These results suggest a conserved role for Dvl in Wnt/wg signal transduction.
4294911|Liver cell lines with very low catalase activity were established from an acatalasemic mouse. Hepatocytes isolated by a collagenase-liver-perfusion technique were cultured in Williams' E medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. The acatalasemic liver cell line showed approximately 20% of the catalase activity of a normal mouse liver cell line, whereas its glutathione peroxidase activity was approximately equal to that of the normal liver cell line. DNA sequence analysis of this cell line showed the same mutation in the catalase gene as is seen in the acatalasemic mouse. Our observation of intracellular content of hydrogen peroxide (H
40205878|We previously demonstrated that keratin 15 expressing cells present in the bulge region of hair follicles exhibit properties of adult stem cells. We have now established and characterized an immortalized adult epithelial stem cell line derived from cells isolated from the human hair follicle bulge region. Telogen hair follicles from human skin were microdissected to obtain an enriched population of keratin 15 positive skin stem cells. By expressing human papillomavirus 16 E6/E7 genes in these stem cells, we have been able to culture the cells for <30 passages and maintain a stable phenotype after 12 mo of continuous passage. The cell line was compared to primary stem cells for expression of stem cell specific proteins, for in vitro stem cell properties, and for their capacity to differentiate into different cell lineages. This new cell line, named Tel-E6E7 showed similar expression patterns to normal skin stem cells and maintained in vitro properties of stem cells. The cells can differentiate into epidermal, sebaceous gland, and hair follicle lineages. Intact -catenin dependent signaling, which is known to control in vivo hair differentiation in rodents, is maintained in this cell line. The Tel-E6E7 cell line may provide the basis for valid, reproducible in vitro models for studies on stem cell lineage determination and differentiation.
20172200| Techniques for the isolation of a highly pure population of viable osteoclasts are limited. For this reason, we developed an isolation procedure that results in a high yield of osteoclast-like cells, up to 92% pure, from 3-wk-old chicken tibias. The unique feature of the method is the migration of cells from marrow-free endosteal surfaces to vitronectin-coated plates. The cells retain the osteoclast phenotype and remain viable in culture for a minimum of 1 wk. The cells were characterized and compared to two populations of authentic avian osteoclasts, which were isolated on the basis of association with fibronectin-coated plates. The cells contained substantial amounts of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase. Alkaline phosphatase levels were negligible, suggesting little contamination by osteoblasts. Response to parathyroid hormone, dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate, calcitonin, acetazolamide, 17-estradiol, and prostaglandin E was evident, as detected by measuring acid production. The vitronectin-associating cells contained numerous mitochondria, had the ability to resorb bone in an in vitro bone slice assay, and specifically bound biotinylated vitronectin. At 5 d of culture, the cells demonstrated marginal multinuclearity, having two to three nuclei. A large number (1  10 cells/tibia) of viable cells that exhibit characteristics of authentic osteoclasts can be obtained by the method described. Potentially, this method could be applied to other species. 
4295426|Cleft palate is the most common craniofacial anomaly. Affected individuals require extensive medical and psychosocial support. Although cleft palate has a complex and poorly understood etiology, low maternal folate is known to be a risk factor for craniofacial anomalies. Folate deficiency results in elevated homocysteine levels, which may disturb palatogenesis by several mechanisms, including oxidative stress and perturbation of matrix metabolism. We examined the effect of homocysteine-induced oxidative stress on human embryonic palatal mesenchyme (HEPM) cells and demonstrated that biologically relevant levels of homocysteine (
4295187|Bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) promotes the development of primary neural crest cells grown in tissue culture to the sympathoadrenal (SA) lineage. Independent studies have characterized the expression patterns of SA-lineage genes in developing chicken embryo; however, studies using cultured primary neural crest cells have characterized only the expression patterns of the catecholaminergic markers, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and catecholamines (CAs). To further explore the molecular mechanisms that control SA-cell development using the in vitro model system, it is crucial to define the expression patterns of both the catecholaminergic markers and the genes regulating SA-lineage determination. Accordingly, we defined, in the absence and presence of BMP-2, the temporal expression patterns of TH and CA, the SA lineage-determining genes ASH-1, Phox2a, and Phox2b, the GATA-2 gene, and the pan-neuronal SCG10 gene. Comparison of these data with the reported temporal and spatial patterns of expression in vivo demonstrate that the inductive steps of SA-lineage determination, including the specification of neurotransmitter identity and neuronal fate, are recapitulated in the neural-crest culture system.
20616591|Gttingen minipigs were treated topically for 6 d with a novel retinoid (MDI 301) at concentrations ranging from 0.3% to 30% in cream vehicle. Treatment of the minipigs did not adversely affect their health (hematological and necropsy parameters) or produce changes in the skin suggestive of retinoid-induced skin irritation. After killing the animals, skin samples from each treatment site were excised and maintained in organ culture for 6 d. In addition, untreated skin was also maintained in organ culture and treated with MDI 301 (0.1-5 g/ml). After 3 d, the culture supernatants were collected and analyzed for levels of collagen type I and for matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Both skin samples treated in vivo and skin samples exposed to MDI 301 in culture demonstrated increased collagen production. Only slight changes in levels of MMP-2 (gelatinase A) or MMP-9 (gelatinase B) were seen. After 6 d, the organ-cultured skin was fixed in formalin and prepared for histology. The organ-cultured skin was compared to skin that was fixed at killing after in vivo treatment. Epidermal hyperplasia was quantified at various MDI 301 concentrations. In vivo and in vitro treatments showed similar resultsalthough the thickness was not substantially changed on average, there were focal areas of hyperplasia at higher retinoid concentrations. Taken together, these data suggest that MDI 301 enhances collagen production in minipig skin, without irritation. Furthermore, these studies suggest that minipig skin exposed to the retinoid in organ culture is equally predictive as topically treated skin. The in vitro organ culture approach may provide a cost-effective alternative model to that of the intact animal for skin retinoid testing.
4295053| Drosophila imaginal disc cell lines were used to investigate various aspects of cellular adhesion in vitro. The distribution of PS integrins and their involvement in cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion were assessed with the monoclonal antibody aBG-1 against the PS subunit, and both forms of adhesion were found to be impeded by the presence of the antibody. Adhesion to a number of extracellular matrix components was investigated, and the cells were found to adhere to human fibronectin. This adhesion was inhibited by aBG-1. The adhesion molecule fasciclin III was also found in these cells. Given that the cells are competent to perform cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion, it was thought that apical basal polarity might be restored when other suitable conditions were provided, i.e., an artificial basement layer with feeder cells to provide nutrients basally to the cells, and some features of apical-basal morphology were seen in cells cultured under these conditions. 
40205932|Growth factors from neural tissues have been described as potent mitogens for a wide variety of mesoderm- and ectoderm-derived cells in vitro. We used porcine brain extract for in vitro testing of proliferation properties on primary ovarian cells, uterine cells, and cardiomyocytes in culture as well as for BHK-21 [C-13] cell line. The addition of this extract accelerates proliferation in all examined cultures. It also lowers serum requirement and shortens the cultivation period for BHK-21 [C-13] cells. Fibroblast growth factors from brain of different species, but not porcine, are already characterized and their proliferative effect proved. Therefore, we purified, determined, and confirmed the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor in porcine brain extract by Western blot analysis and showed its biological activity on BHK-21 [C-13] cells.
4294767| A novel human cell line, TOM-2, was established from a rare uterine cervical cancer, glassy cell carcinoma (GCC). TOM-2 is the second established GCC cell line so far reported. The cells were intermediately or poorly differentiated with dysplastic nuclei and polygonal shape and secreted two tumor markers and cytokines, i.e., CA-125 and SCC, interleukin (IL)-1, -6, and -8, and TNF-. Growth of TOM-2 was so strongly dependent on population density that it was not possible to determine the plating efficiency. In mass culture, the following characteristics were observed: doubling time, 83 h; mode of chromosome number, 79; human papillomavirus type 18 DNA, detectable; tumorigenicity, easily transplantable into subcutis of nude mice; chemosensitivity in vitro, considerably sensitive to Cisplatin and 5-FU but not to 9 other antineo-plastic agents. This novel cell line will be useful for developing new therapeutic strategies for the rare cancer, GCC. 
4294937|To study the mechanisms regulating endochondral skeletal development, we examined the characteristics of long-term, high density micromass cultures of embryonic chicken limb bud mesenchymal cells. By culture Day 3, these cells underwent distinct chondrogenesis, evidenced by cellular condensation to form large nodules exhibiting cartilage-like morphology and extracellular matrix. By Day 14, extensive cellular hypertrophy was seen in the core of the nodules, accompanied by increased alkaline phosphatase activity, and the limitation of cellular proliferation to the periphery of the nodules and to internodular areas. By Day 14, matrix calcification was detected by alizarin red staining, and calcium incorporation increased as a function of culture time up to 2 to 3 wk and then decreased. X-ray probe elemental analysis detected the presence of hydroxyapatite. Analogous to growth cartilage developing in vivo, these cultures also exhibited time-dependent apoptosis, on the basis of DNA fragmentation detected in situ by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate (dUTP) nick end labeling (TUNEL), ultrastructural nuclear morphology, and the appearance of inter-nucleosomal DNA degradation. These findings showed that cellular differentiation, maturation, hypertrophy, calcification, and apoptosis occurred sequentially in the embryonic limb mesenchyme micromass cultures and indicate their utility as a convenient in vitro model to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of endochondral ossification.
41511623|We have previously demonstrated that nestinexpressing multipotent hair follicle stem cells are located above the hair follicle bulge and can differentiate into neurons and other cell types in vitro. The nestin-expressing hair follicle stem cells promoted the recovery of pre-existing axons when they were transplanted to the severed sciatic nerve or injured spinal cord. We have also previously demonstrated that the whisker hair follicle contains nestin-expressing stem cells in the dermal papilla (DP) as well as in the bulge area (BA), but that their origin is in the BA. In the present study, we established the technique of long-term Gelfoam  histoculture of whiskers isolated from transgenic mice in which nestin drives green fluorescent protein (ND-GFP). Confocal imaging was used to monitor ND-GFP-expressing stem cells trafficking in real time between the BA and DP to determine the fate of the stem cells. It was observed over a 2-week period that the stem cells trafficked from the BA toward the DP area and extensively grew out onto Gelfoam  forming nerve-like structures. This new method of long-term histoculture of whiskers from ND-GFP mice will enable the extensive study of the behavior of nestin-expressing multipotent stem cells of the hair follicle.
4295449|Tissue culture has played a major role in the rapid advances made in medical science in the past 50 yr. The full potential of the technique, however, is limited by the fact that growth of cells is usually restricted to a monolayer accompanied by major decreases in many of their tissue-specific functions. This has been shown to be due, in large part, to the inadequate oxygenation of cells growing in tissue culture dishes. Studies that show that the high charge density and rigidity of the plastic and glass surfaces used for culture are also major factors limiting growth of cells to a monolayer, are reviewed. A new culture system has been developed in which cells are grown on substrata made using perfluorocarbons (PFCs) coated with collagen type 1 and other adhesive factors. Perfluorocarbons have a much higher solubility for oxygen than water and have been used as oxygen delivery systems to protect cells from hypoxia. These new PFC-based substrata can provide both the optimal level of oxygen cells need to maintain differentiated functions and the flexible and weaker type of adhesion that allows cells to round up, interact with each other, and when provided with adequate nutritional support, to grow in three dimension.
4294068| Fetal bovine serum (FBS) is frequently used to supplement chemically defined media such as Ham's F10 when studying placental explant cultures. However in vitro production of hormones is usually declining by the 2nd or 3rd day and is short-lived (7 to 10 days). In this study we explored the use of human maternal serum (HMS) from early gestation as the medium supplement to Ham's F10. Early placental hormone production was compared using two concentrations of FBS and HMS. On Day 3 of incubation, progesterone production in 10% HMS was 12-fold increased over that in 10% FBS, estradiol production was increased 10-fold, and hCG production more than 3-fold. When the serum concentrations were increased to 40%, the results in all cases were similar to those at 10%. Preliminary characterization studies revealed that the stimulatory activity of HMS is heat-labile, neither extractable into organic solvent (diethyl ether) nor dialyzable, suggesting that it is protein in nature. In a long-term incubation, compared with FBS (7 days), HMS permitted survival of culture up to 30 days, judged both histologically and biochemically. We conclude that HMS provides substance(s), probably protein in nature, not present in FBS or non-pregnant human serum, which are important for human placental viability and function in vivo. 
40802394|The modifications of intracellular redox balance leads to important cellular changes in many cell types. Here, a causal relationship among redox state, granulocytic differentiation induced by all-trans retinoic acid (RA) or dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP) and apoptosis have been studied in the human acute promyelocytic leukaemia HL-60 cells. The modulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species levels by D, L-buthionine-(S, R) sulfoximide (BSO), and N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) caused inducer-and timedependent or stage-specific effects on HL-60 cell growth inhibition, differentiation and subsequent apoptosis. The presence of BSO during the commitment stage suppressed RA but not dbcAMP-mediated differentiation, while NAC inhibited both. BSO alone and in combination with RA or dbcAMP-induced apoptosis, which was prevented by NAC in dbcAMP but not in RA-treated cells. Using protein kinase C inhibitor, calphostin C, cross-talk effects between the intracellular redox state and PKC signalling was identified by demonstrating inducer-dependent changes in cell differentiation or apoptosis, which were associated with the changes in DNA-NF- binding activity. These observations suggest a critical role of redox state in determining HL-60 cell behaviour and provide new insights into the complex effects of redox perturbations on the intracellular signalling network via the involvement of PKC and NF-KB.
20616549|Aneuploidy (an abnormal number of chromosomes) is commonly observed in most human cancer cells, highlighting the need to examine chromosomal instability in tumorigenesis. Previously, the immortalized human mesenchymal stem cell line UE6E7T-3 was shown to undergo a preferential loss of one copy of chromosome 13 after prolonged culture. Here, the loss of chromosome 13 was found to be caused by chromosome missegregation during mitosis, which involved unequal segregation, exclusion of the misaligned chromosome 13 on the metaphase plate, and trapping of chromosome 13 in the midbody region, as observed by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Near-diploid aneuploidy, not tetraploidy, was the direct result. The loss of chromosome 13 was non-random, and was detected by analysis of microsatellites and single nucleotide polymorphism-based loss of heterozygosity (LOH). Of the five microsatellite loci on chromosome 13, four loci showed microsatellite instability at an early stage in culture, and LOH was apparent at a late stage in culture. These results suggest that the microsatellite mutations cause changes in centromere integrity provoking loss of this chromosome in the UE6E7T-3 cell line. Thus, these results support the use of this cell line as a useful model for understanding the mechanism of aneuploid formation in cell cultures.
4295585| Interferon-alpha (IFN-) has recently been shown to modulate in vitro T helper (Th) 1-driven responses in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of patients with hepatitis B virus or C virus infection. In this study, we examined the in vitro effects of IFN- subtypes (IFN-l, -2, -a5, -8, and -l0) on the Thl/Th2 balance in PBMC obtained from patients with hepatitis virus infection-associated liver disorders and chronic hepatitis (CH), in comparison with the effect on healthy control volunteer PBMC. The Th1-type cell percentages and Th1/Th2 ratios were significantly higher in the PBMC of patients when compared with controls both before and after cultivation in vitro, with the IFN-a subtypes. The IFN-5 induced an increase in the Th2-type cell percentages in both control and patient PBMC, resulting in that IFN-5 lowered the Thl/Th2 ratio in patients with CH. Furthermore, statistical analysis revealed that IFN-8 significantly promoted an increase in the Thl/Th2 ratios of PBMC from patients with CH and liver cirrhosis (LC) but not that of PBMC from patients with LC-hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and HCC. These findings imply that hepatitis virus infection and its disease status modify the effects of IFN-a subtypes on Th1 and Th2 immune balance in patients. Our findings should help to elucidate the mechanisms underlying successful IFN therapy for hepatitis virus infection and prevention of hepatocellular carcinogenesis. 
4294942| Eight continuous insect cell lines were tested for susceptibility to the -endotoxins of several lepidopteran-active strains and cloned-gene products of Bacillus thuringiensis. The assays were performed on cells suspended in agarose gel, which allowed the toxins activated at pH 10.5 to be applied directly in a high-pH buffer without causing solvent toxicity to the cells. The responses of the cell lines to the various toxins produced activity spectra that were used to identify functionally similar and dissimilar toxin proteins. IPRI-CF-1 and FPMI-MS-5, derived from neonate larvae of Choristoneura fumiferana and Manduca sexta, respectively, exhibited the greatest sensitivity to the toxins tested, whereas B. thuringiensis subsp. entomocidus had the broadest in vitro host range. Analysis of activity spectra led to the identification of the particular Cry protein that was responsible for the broad toxicity of this subspecies and demonstrated a distinct difference in toxin composition between two strains of subsp. sotto. The identical spectra observed for subsp. kurstaki HD-1 and NRD-12 is consistent with insect bioassay data obtained previously by other workers and supports the conclusion that there is virtually no difference in activity between these two strains. The in vitro assay system, referred to as the "lawn assay" and used to test B. thuringiensis activated toxins against insect cell lines, is particularly useful in mode-of-action studies and as a rapid, preliminary test for the presence of specific cytolytic proteins, rather than as a method for screening toxins of wild-type strains for insecticidal activity. The response of cells in vitro to B. thuringiensis toxins is often very different from that of the insect from which the cells were derived. 
20869567|Proliferation of sponge cells is generally measured via cell counts or viability assays. However, more insight into the proliferative state of a sponge cell population can be obtained from the distribution of the cells over the different phases of the cell cycle. Cell cycle distribution of sponge cells was measured via flow cytometry after staining the DNA with propidium iodide. The five sponges studied in this paper all showed a large fraction of cells in G1/G0 compared to G2/M and S, indicating that cells were not actively dividing. In addition, some sponges also showed a large apoptotic fraction, indicating cell death. Additional apoptosis measurements, based on caspase activity, showed that harvesting and dissociation of sponge tissue to initiate a primary cell culture was directly correlated with an increase in apoptotic cells. This indicates that for the development of cell cultures, more attention should be given to harvesting, dissociation, and quality of starting material. Finally, cultivation conditions used were ineffective for proliferation, since after 2 d of cultivating Haliclona oculata cells, most cells shifted towards the apoptotic fraction, indicating that cells were dying. For development of in vitro sponge cell cultures, flow cytometric cell cycle analysis is a useful method to assess the proliferative state of a sponge cell culture and can be used to validate improvements in harvesting and dissociation, to select sponges with good proliferative capacities and to study the influence of culture conditions for stimulating cell growth.
4294133|Cell death within atherosclerotic plaques leads to necrosis and rupture, resulting in vascular occlusion. We have previously demonstrated that addition of exogenous 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) to arterial smooth muscle cells (aSMCs) in vitro can protect against toxins that may initiate necrosis. To determine whether exogenous HSP70 enters aSMCs or acts from outside cells to preserve viability, cultured rabbit aSMCs were stressed by serum deprivation and treated with fluorescently labeled (7-aminomethyl-4-coumarin-3-acetate) or
4294981|During kidney development the embryonic ampullar collecting duct (CD) epithelium changes its function. The capability for nephron induction is lost and the epithelium develops into a heterogeneously composed epithelium consisting of principal and intercalated cells. Part of this development can be mimicked under in vitro conditions, when embryonic collecting duct epithelia are isolated from neonatal rabbit kidneys and kept under perfusion culture. The differentiation pattern is quite different when the embryonic collecting duct epithelia are cultured in standard Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium as compared to medium supplemented with additional NaCl. Thus, the differentiation behavior of embryonic CD epithelia is unexpectedly sensitive. To obtain more information about how much influence the medium has on cell differentiation, we tested medium 199, basal medium Eagle, Williams' medium E, McCoys 5A medium, and Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium under serum-free conditions. The experiments show that in general, all of the tested media are suitable for culturing embryonic collecting duct epithelia. According to morphological criteria, there is no difference in morphological epithelial cell preservation. The immunohistochemical data reveal two groups of expressed antigens. Constitutively expressed antigens such as cytokeratin 19,
4294749|Attempts to grow human pancreatic duct epithelial cells in long-term culture have proven difficult. We have developed a system of growing these cells for several passages by adapting methods used to culture dog pancreatic duct cells. Epithelial cells were enzymatically dissociated from the main pancreatic duct and plated onto collagen-coated culture inserts suspended above a human fibroblast feeder layer. After primary culture, the cells were either passaged onto new inserts or plastic tissue culture plates in the absence of collagen. Cells grown on the latter plates were maintained in a serum-free medium. Primary pancreatic duct epithelial cells grow steadily to confluence as a monolayer in the feeder layer system. After primary culture, cells passaged onto new inserts with fresh feeder layer or plastic plates and fed with serum-free medium continued to develop into confluent monolayers for up to four passages. The cells were columnar with prominent apical microvilli, sub-apical secretory vesicles, and lateral intercellular junctions resembling the morphology of normal in vivo epithelial cells. These cells were also positive for cytokeratin 19, 7, and 8 and carbonic anhydrase II, as measured by immunohistochemistry. Metabolically, these cells synthesized and secreted mucin, as measured by incorporation of tritiated N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. In conclusion, we demonstrated that human pancreatic epithelial cells from the main duct can be successfully grown in culture and repeatedly passaged using a feeder layer system, with serum-free medium, and in organotypic cultures.
4295096|Our hypothesis is that rotation increases apoptosis in standard tissue culture medium at shear stresses of greater than approximately
4294574|Active transport of sodium by pulmonary alveolar epithelial cells (AEC) is believed to be an important component of edema clearance in the normal and injured lung. Data supporting this premise have come from measurements of sodium movement across AEC monolayers or from perfused lung model systems. However, direct measurement of fluid flux across AEC monolayers has not been reported. In the present work, AEC were studied with an experimental system for the measurement of fluid flux (Jv) across functionally intact cell monolayers. Primary adult rat type II alveolar epithelial cells were cultured on
40663795|Human embryonic stem (hES) cells are pluripotent cells derived from the inner cell mass of blastocysts. Their unique properties of self-renewal and pluripotency make them an attractive tool for basic research as well as a potential cell resource for therapy. However, each hES cell line demonstrates different identity. It is desirable to obtain more fully characterized hES cell lines with newly developed technologies associated with hES cell culture. Here, we report our experience of efficient derivation of three new Chinese hES cell lines (SHhES2, SHhES3, and SHhES4) from in vitro fertilization discarded embryos donated by women with polycystic ovary syndrome. These cell lines were derived under conditions minimizing exposure to animal components and maintained at an undifferentiated state for long-term culture. They retained a normal karyotype and expressed ALP, OCT4, SOX2, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60 and TRA-1-81. RT-PCR analysis also revealed high expression levels of pluripotency markers such as OCT4, LEFTY A, SOX2, TDGF-1, THY1, FGF4, NANOG, and REX1. When suspended in low-attachment culture dishes, embryoid bodies formed and were comprised of various differentiated cell types from all three embryonic germ layers. However, well-shaped teratomas were only harvested from line SHhES2, not from SHhES3 and SHhES4, indicating that the differentiation ability in vivo differs among the three cell lines. Collectively, the three new hES cell lines were established and fully characterized. The effort paves the way toward generating hES cell lines without contamination by animal components. All of these cell lines are available by contact Ying Jin at yjin@sibs.ac.cn.
40205773|Osteoblasts are cells specialized in extracellular matrix production and mineralization. In collaboration with osteoclasts which are bone-resorbing cells, osteoblasts regulate bone homeostasis. The study of osteoblast differentiation from the earliest states of the differentiation can be performed using embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cells are pluripotent cells which have the capacity to give rise to all kinds of cells of the body. The main protocol to differentiate embryonic stem cells into osteoblast uses the generation of embryoid body which is a three-dimensional structure mimicking the developing embryo. Recently, it has been shown that human embryonic stem cells have the capacity to differentiate spontaneously into osteoblasts. In this manuscript, we showed that mouse embryonic stem cells have the capacity to differentiate spontaneously into osteoblasts, which can be visualized by the appearance of mineralization nodules and osteogenic markers.
4294923|The isolation and characterization of human liver cell lines are rather difficult due to limited material and poor growth in cell culture. In this report, we present the isolation, culture and characterization of a new epithelial-like liver cell line (AKN-1) with a heterogeneous cell population and many characteristics of the biliary epithelium. The AKN-1 cell line stained positively with antibodies to epithelial cytokeratin polypetides CK 8, 18, and 19. In addition, the cell line expressed the anti-human epithelial-related antigen (MOC-31), the human epithelial antigen (HEA), and the gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, the hematopoietic growth factor, stem cell factor, and also its receptor, c-kit. The cell line failed to express albumin and factor 8 by immunohistochemistry. It did show, however, a twofold increase in 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity. Cytogenetic characterization revealed rare breakpoints in chromosome 2, which to our knowledge, have not yet been reported in liver cells.
4294231|Embryos of the parasitoid Microplitis croceipes develop from pregerm band stage to first larval instar in cell culture medium conditioned by a cell line (IPLB-LdFB) derived from fat body from an atypical host Lymantria dispar. However, the percentage of eggs that develop normally to the first larval instar stage is significantly less than for those maintained in IPL-52B medium conditioned with host fat body tissue. Therefore, we examined the capacity of five insect cell lines to promote growth and development of pregerm band eggs in five media, IPL-52B, TC-199, TC-100, Grace's, and ExCell 400. The developmental response of M. croceipes was dependent both on the cell line and the cell culture medium used. TC-100, TC-199, and Grace's media promoted development to the germ band stage without the need for conditioning with host tissue. IPL-52B supported development to the germ band stage when a defined lipid concentrate was added. In IPL-52B medium, the IPLB-LdFB cell line promoted a significantly higher number of eggs developing to germ band relative to the other cell lines; however, none of the cell line-conditioned IPL-52B medium significantly stimulated egg hatch relative to the control medium. None of the cell line-conditioned Grace's media had a significant effect on eggs attaining germ band stage compared with the Grace's control medium. However, Grace's medium conditioned with the IAL-TND1 and IPLB-LdFB cell lines promoted development beyond germ band, resulting in a significantly higher percentage of hatching eggs than the Grace's control medium. Although the BCIRL-HZ-AM1 cell line, which is derived from the parasitoid's typical host, did not induce hatch in either IPL-52B medium or Grace's medium, it promoted hatch in TC-199 and Excell 400 media. Fat body taken from the same species that the cell lines were derived from was a better predictor of a cell line's embryotrophic activity in Grace's medium rather than in IPL-52B medium. Thus, the composition of the medium and the species and tissue type of the cell line source must be evaluated interactively to determine optimal conditions for promoting development of M. croceipes in vitro.
4294309|Comparison of proteins expressed by SV40 transformed cell lines and untransformed cell lines is of interest because SV40 transformed cells are immortal, whereas untransformed cells senesce after about 50 doublings. In MRC-5 SV40 cells, only seven proteins have previously been reported to shift from undetectable to detectable after transformation by SV40 virus. We report that butyrylcholinesterase is an 8th protein in this category. Butyrylcholinesterase activity in transformed MRC-5 SV40 cells increased at least 150-fold over its undetectable level in MRC-5 parental cells. Other SV40 transformed cell lines, including COS-1, COS-7, and WI-38 VA13, also expressed endogenous butyrylcholinesterase, whereas the parental, untransformed cell lines, CV-1 and WI-38, had no detectable butyrylcholinesterase activity or mRNA. Infection of CV-1 cells by SV40 virus did not result in expression of butyrylcholinesterase, showing that the butyrylcholinesterase promoter was not activated by the large T antigen of SV40. We conclude that butyrylcholinesterase expression resulted from events related to cell immortalization and did not result from activation by the large T antigen.
4295399|Ontogeny-specific differences in hematopoietic behavior may be influenced by unique adhesive interactions between hematopoietic cells and the microenvironment, such as that mediated by vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1, CD 106). Although VCAM-1 is variably expressed during vertebrate development, we hypothesized that VCAM-1 expression might be linked to the enhanced capacity of the fetal liver microenvironment to support hematopoiesis. To test this we used immortalized murine stromal cell lines derived from midgestation fetal liver and adult bone marrow to compare the functional expression of VCAM-1. Molecular analysis of VCAM-1 expression was performed on stromal cell lines using Northern blot analysis, immunoprecipitation studies, and solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Hematopoietic studies were performed by coculturing fetal liver cells with stromal cell lines, and the functional readout was determined by high-proliferative potential colony-forming cell (HPP-CFC) adherence assays. In contrast to our initial hypothesis, we observed greater expression of VCAM-1 messenger ribonueleic acid and protein on an adult marrow stromal cell line. In functional studies, anti-VCAM-1 antibody inhibited the binding of nearly half of the HPP-CFCs to adult marrow stroma but had a minimal effect on their binding to fetal liver stroma, despite the greater adherence of HPP-CFCs to fetal stroma. We conclude that VCAM-1 influences the hematopoietic supportive capacity of immortalized murine stroma derived from adult bone marrow. Our studies suggest that cellular interactions other than those mediated by VCAM-1 are involved in the increased adhesive capacity of immortalized murine stroma derived from fetal liver.
4294448|We have developed a novel isolation technique for harvesting human capillary endothelial cells. We compared the use of either Ulex Europaeus Agglutinin (UEA) lectin or anti-platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule (PECAM) antibody conjugated to magnetic beads for the ability to isolate and maintain pure cultures of human capillary endothelial cells. Cells isolated using either method actively scavenged Dil-acetylated-low density lipoprotein and expressed von Willebrand factor (vWf) up to four passages as assessed by immunofluorescent labeling. Endothelial cells isolated using the anti-PECAM antibody method maintained these endothelial-specific properties for up to 12 passages while the percentage of UEA selected cells expressing these properties decreased during increasing passage number. Furthermore, while both techniques yielded cells that bind UEA at Passage six, only the antibody selected cells expressed the normal pattern of endothelial-specific cellular adhesion molecules as assessed by flow cytometry. Both cell isolates were cultured within a three-dimensional matrix of type I collagen, the antibody selected cells formed tubelike structures within 2 days, while the lectin selected cells did not. The antibody selected capillary endothelial cells were transduced with a retroviral vector containing the human growth hormone cDNA and were found to secrete growth hormone from both two- and three-dimensional cultures. We propose that anti-PECAM antibodies linked to a solid support provide a highly selective step in the isolation and maintenance of pure populations of human capillary endothelial cells from abdominal wall liposuction remnants.
4295230|This study was undertaken to examine the influence of time and volume of collagen overlay, type of media, and media additives on taurocholate (TC) accumulation and biliary excretion in hepatocytes cultured in a collagen-sandwich configuration. Hepatocytes were isolated from male Wistar rats by in situ perfusion with collagenase, seeded onto collagen-coated 60-mm dishes, overlaid with gelled collagen, and cultured for 4 d. Experiments to examine the influence of time and volume of collagen overlay were conducted in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium
4295648| In this study we examined the interplay between serum, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), retinoic acid, and dibutyrl cyclic adenosine monophosphate (dbcAMP) in affecting IOUD2 embryonic stem cell self-renewal and differentiation as assessed by Oct4 expression, and cell proliferation as measured by total cell protein. Removal of LIF, reduced levels of fetal calf serum (FCS), and addition of retinoic acid all induced embryonic stem cell differentiation as measured by reduced Oct4 expression. Lower levels of retinoic acid (0.1-10 nM) promoted the formation of epithelial-like cells, whereas higher levels (100-10,000 nM) favored differentiation into fibroblastic-like cells. The effects of dbcAMP varied with the presence or absence of FCS and LIF and the concentration of dbcAMP. In FCS-containing media, a low level of dbcAMP (100 M) increased self-renewal in the absence of LIF, but it had no effect in its presence. In contrast, at higher concentrations (1000 M dbcAMP), regardless of LIF, differentiation was promoted. A similar effect of dbcAMP was seen in the presence of retinoic acid. In media without FCS but with serum replacement supplements, there was no effect of dbcAMP. This study shows that the Oct4 expression system of IOUD2 cells provides a novel, simple method for quantifying cellular differentiation. 
40802405|The emergence of air-liquid interface (ALI) culturing of mammalian airway epithelium is a recent innovation for experimental modeling of airway epithelial development, function, and pathogenic mechanisms associated with infectious agent and irritant exposure. This construct provides an experimental platform for in vitro propagation, manipulation, and testing of airway epithelium in a structural and physiologic state that emulates in vivo organization. In this study, we have cultured nasal epithelial biopsies from human subjects with variable histories of tobacco smoke exposure and assessed ciliary beat frequency (CBF) after an extended interval in vitro relative to CBF determined on biopsies from the same subjects immediately upon acquisition. We observed elevated CBF in nasal epithelial biopsies as well as persistence of accelerated CBF in ALI cultures deriving from biopsies of smokers and non-smokers exposed to environmental tobacco smoke compared to CBF in cultures from biopsies of well-documented nonsmokers. Moreover, cultures deriving from smokers exhibited reduced ciliation as the cultures matured. These studies document that nasal epithelium cultured in the ALI system retains physiologic and phenotypic characteristics of the epithelial layer in vivo even through rounds of proliferative expansion. These observations suggest that stable epigenetic factors affecting regulation of ciliary function and phenotype commitment may be operative.
4294545|Availability of a standard human melanocyte cell line with unlimited growth potential and otherwise normal melanocytic properties will greatly facilitate research in melanocyte biology and in vitro studies on the etiology of pigmentary disorders and melanoma. Using a retroviral vector, E6 and E7 open reading frames of human papilloma virus type 16 (HPV 16) have been introduced into cultured normal human melanocytes. Cells selected by increased resistance to geneticin conveyed by the vector and expressing E6E7 mRNA have been cloned to ensure genetic homogeneity. Since their establishment as primary cells, cloned PIG1 cells have undergone more than twice the amount of population doublings of senescent parental cells. Moreover, in passage numbers when parental cells had become senescent, proliferation of clonal cells was retained at levels exceeding those of normal human melanocytes in third passage by 100%. Further characterization has revealed that the cells remain dependent on tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (TPA) for growth and do not proliferate in soft agar nor form tumors in nude mice. The antigenic profile of the cells was slightly altered as compared to parental cells, but was incomparable to that of M14 melanoma cells. Importantly, PIG1 cells contain more melanin pigment than parental cells.
4295500|Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence analysis were used to identify the species origin of cell lines used in a cell culture facility where various cell lines of different species are routinely propagated. The aldolase gene family was selected for PCR amplification because the DNA sequences of this gene are highly conserved over a wide range of animals and humans. A total of 36 cell lines representing 13 different species were selected for this study. The DNA from each cell line was amplified, and PCR products were analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis. The results showed unique profiles of amplified bands on agarose gels that allowed differentiation among non-closely related species. However, DNA amplification of closely related species, including rat and mouse or human and primate, resulted in similar and indistinguishable banding patterns that could be further differentiated by DNA sequence analysis. These results suggested that aldolase gene amplification coupled with DNA sequence analysis is a useful tool for identification of cell lines and has potential application for use in identification of interspecies cross-contamination.
40205811|We investigated chromosome (Chr) aberrations in the process of replicative senescence and immortalization of cultured bovine oviduct epithelial cells (BOEC) before and after transfecting vectors SV40 large T or human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT). We found that a gradual increase in the number of metacentric chromosomes occurred during replicative senescence but not immortalization of BOEC. The accumulation of metacentric chromosomes was concomitant with decreases in the number of acrocentric autosomes, strongly suggesting that Robertsonian (Rb) translocation frequently occurred in cultured BOEC. The process was also correlated with an accumulation of extremely shortened telomeres (< 4 kb). The maximum number of metacentric chromosomes reached a plateau (8.75  0.53) in the senescent BOEC (approximately 48 population doublings), and the value was stably maintained in all immortalized lines. These results suggest that not all autosomes may be involved in Rb translocation. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis using probes specific for Chr1, Chr29, telomeres, and x-chromosomes of bovine confirmed the presence of t(1;29) with other unidentified fused chromosomes. There was no evidence for duplication of sex chromosomes. Because no detectable fluorescence in situ hybridization signals at the centromere for telomeres were indicative of no direct integration of telomere sequences in the Rb translocated chromosomes, these results raise a possibility that Rb translocation between certain autosomes of bovine cells is partly but critically dependent upon a physical state of telomere attrition. The cells and cell lines established in this study could provide a promising system for further studies on the mechanisms of chromosomal translocation because of centromeric fusion in bovine cells.
20172145| All epithelial cells require retinoic acid for growth, maintenance, and differentiation. Although the epithelial cells that line the gastrointestinal tract are exposed to extreme retinoid concentration fluctuations in luminal fluid, whether proliferation and differentiation in these cells are significantly affected is not known. We have investigated this question using Caco-2 cells as a model because, although they are derived from a colon adenocarcinoma, they differentiate spontaneously in a manner similar to enterocytes in the small intestine. We found that retinoic acid caused maximum inhibition of cell growth and ornithine decarboxylase activity during the proliferative period. Retinoic acid increased brush border enzyme activities only in differentiating cells but stimulated transglutaminase activity in cells at all stages. In untreated proliferating cells, we found an early peak of transglutaminase activity that has not been reported before. Retinoic acid in intestinal cells acts through its nuclear receptor, RAR. The nuclear distribution of this receptor has not been demonstrated. In this study, we show that RAR responds to increasing concentrations of retinoic acid with a shift to the nuclear membrane in undifferentiated cells and progressive aggregation, diffusion, and loss in differentiated cells. We conclude that retinoic acid can inhibit proliferation and stimulate differentiation in Caco-2 cells depending on concentration and cell stage, and that these effects are accompanied by changes in distribution, as well as by the loss of RAR. 
4294065|In vitro culture conditions enabling rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cells to differentiate to mucociliary, mucous, or squamous phenotypes are described. Medium composition for rapid cell growth to confluence in membrane insert cultures was determined, and the effects of major modifiers of differentiation were tested. Retinoic acid (RA), collagen gel substratum, and an air-liquid interface at the level of the cell layer were required for expression of a mucociliary phenotype which most closely approximated the morphology of the tracheal epithelium in vivo. Large quantities of high molecular weight, hyaluronidase-resistant glycoconjugates, most likely mucin glycoproteins, were produced in the presence of RA when the cells were grown with or without a collagen gel and in submerged as well as in interface cultures. However, extensive ciliagenesis was dependent on the simultaneous presence of RA, collagen gel, and an air-liquid interface. When RA was omitted from the media, the cells became stratified squamous and developed a cornified apical layer in air-liquid interface cultures. This phenotype was accompanied by loss of transglutaminase (TGase) type II and keratin 18 and expression of the squamous markers TGase type I and keratin 13. The ability to modulate RTE cell phenotypes in culture will facilitate future studies investigating molecular regulation of tracheal cell proliferation, differentiation, and function.
20172171| Two long-term cultured cell lines were established from BALB/c mouse axillary and cervical lymph nodes that exhibited a combination of functional, morphological, and phenotypic characteristics consistent only with high endothelial venule cells. Spleen lymphocytes selectively bound and migrated across the cell lines. On Matrigel, these cell lines formed tubules with lumens, a characteristic unique to endothelial cells. Morphologically the cells were 20-30 m in diameter and exhibited contact inhibition. The cells were not myeloid in origin because they lacked sodium fluoride-inhibitable nonspecific esterase activity, myeloperoxidase activity, and F4/80 antigen. The cell line phenotypes were compared to high endothelial venule (HEV) cells in tissue sections. HEV cells in lymph node tissue sections expressed endoglin, PECAM-1, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, laminin, fibronectin, collagen IV,
4294940|Primary cultures of Pecten maximus heart cells, isolated by an enzymatic procedure, were routinely obtained with a high level of reproducibility in a simple medium based on sterile seawater. Cells attached to the plastic substratum without the need to add a special factor. The number of adhering cells gradually increased with the time of culture. Two types of adhering cells were observed: epitheliallike cells and fibroblastlike cells, which were more numerous. The latter cells were identified as myocytes by electron microscopy and immunofluorescent staining. Results obtained by autoradiography, after incorporation of
4294951| Endothelial cells assume divergent physiologic postures, from a 'quiescent' to an 'activated' state, and this ability is thought to critically regulate homeostasis of the vascular milieu. While establishing endothelial cell lines, we observed that most of the endothelial cells exhibited 'spontaneous' activation with morphological changes once the cells surpassed confluence. In the present study, we investigated whether accumulation and subsequent availability of certain factors in the cells might induce morphologic changes indicating activated phenotype in confluent endothelial cells. Cell lysate from nonactivated confluent endothelial cells activated autologous target cells, whereas culture supernatants did not. Stimulatory activity of the cell lysate was dependent on the concentration of cell lysate, i.e., nonactivated endothelial cell lysate at 25% concentration induced a substantial level of morphologic change. The 'spontaneous' as well as the cell lysate-induced change in morphology of endothelial cells was inhibited by neutralization of interleukin (IL)-1 with anti-IL-1 antibody. Correspondingly, cell lysate from confluent non-IL-1-expressing endothelial cells did not alter the morphology of autologous confluent cells even at a higher concentration. Cells that spontaneously changed their morphology correspondingly upre-gulated IL-1 and IL-8 transcripts. The results indicate that the accumulation and availability of endogenous IL-la is responsible for the 'spontaneous' activation of endothelial cells in culture. Ultimately, through this property, endothelial cells may facilitate normal in vivo host responses, including the regulation of leukocyte trafficking. 
20869598|Larval-to-adult myogenic conversion occurs in the dorsal muscle but not in the tail muscle during Xenopus laevis metamorphosis. To know the mechanism for tail-specific suppression of adult myogenesis, response character was compared between adult myogenic cells (Ad-cells) and larval tail myogenic cells (La-cells) to a Sonic hedgehog (Shh) inhibitor, notochord (Nc) cells, and spinal cord (SC) cells in vitro. Cyclopamine, an Shh inhibitor, suppressed the differentiation of cultured Ad (but not La) cells, suggesting the significance of Shh signaling in promoting adult myogenesis. To test the possibility that Shh-producing axial elements (notochord and spinal cord) regulate adult myogenesis, Ad-cells or La-cells were co-cultured with Nc or SC cells. The results showed that differentiation of Ad-cells were strongly inhibited by Nc cells but promoted by SC cells. If Ad-cells were "separately" co-cultured with Nc cells without direct cellcell interactions, adult differentiation was not inhibited but rather promoted, suggesting that Nc cells have two roles, one is a short-range suppression and another is a long-range promotion for adult myogenesis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed both notochord and spinal cord express the N-terminal Shh fragment throughout metamorphosis. The "spinal cord-promotion" and long-range effect by Nc cells on adult myogenesis is thus involved in Shh signaling, while the signaling concerning the short-range "Nc suppression" will be determined by future studies. Interestingly, these effects, "Nc suppression" and "SC promotion" were not observed for La-cells. Situation where the spinal cord/notochord cross-sectional ratio is quite larger in tadpole trunk than in the tail seems to contribute to trunk-specific promotion and tail-specific suppression of adult myogenesis during Xenopus metamorphosis.
23353409|Recent findings have demonstrated that amniotic fluid cells are an interesting and potential source of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). In this study, we isolated MSCs from canine amniotic fluid and then characterized their multilineage differentiation ability. Canine amniotic fluid stem (cAFS) cells at passage 5 had a fibroblast-like morphology instead of forming colonies and were positive for pluripotent stem cell markers such as OCT4, NANOG, and SOX2. Flow cytometry analysis showed the expression of MSC surface markers CD44, CD29, and CD90 on the cAFS cells. In addition, these cells were cultured under conditions favorable for adipogenic, chondrogenic, and osteogenic induction. The results of this experiment confirmed the mesenchymal nature of cAFS cells and their multipotent potential. Interestingly, although the cells exhibited a fibroblast-like morphology after hepatogenic induction, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that the expression of several hepatic genes, such as albumin, tyrosine aminotransferase, and alpha-1 antiproteinase, increased following maturation and differentiation. These findings indicated that cAFS cells have functional properties similar to those of hepatocytes. Taken together, the results of our study demonstrated that cAFS cells with mesenchymal characteristics can be successfully isolated from canine amniotic fluid and possess functional properties characteristic of hepatocytes. The findings of our work suggest that cAFS cells have the potential to be a resource for cell-based therapies in a canine model of hepatic disease.
20616570|Two cell lines designated CAF-Clan I and CAF-Clan II have been established from embryos of Clostera anachoreta (Lepidoptera: Notodontidae) in TNM-FH medium containing 10% inactivated fetal bovine serum. CAF-Clan I consists of a mixture of three cell types: spherical cells, spindle-shaped cells, and giant cells. Most of the cultured cells formed a suspension in the medium and were subcultured more than 60 passages. CAF-Clan II mainly consists of spindle-shaped and spherical cells which attached to the culture surface and have undergone more than 40 passages. The cell population doubling time at 27C of CAF-Clan I at passage 22 and CAF-Clan II at passage 24 was about 68.5 and 38.2 h, respectively. The chromosome number of both cell lines at passage 15 varied from 62 to 100 in the majority of cells, though a few cells exceeded 260 (n=30). DNA amplification fingerprintingpolymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed that the origination of the two cell lines was C. anachoreta. The susceptibility of the cell lines to baculoviruses was tested. The results showed that CAF-Clan II was susceptible to infection of Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV) and Ecotropis oblique nucleopolyhedrovirus (EoNPV). Occlusion bodies (OBs) production was 1294 OBs/cell and 12415 OBs/cell for AcMNPV and EoNPV, respectively. CAF-Clan I was less susceptible to AcMNPV compared with CAF-Clan II, while non-permissive to EoNPV.
4294664|Alveolar macrophages, which play a central role in lung defense, produce cytokines that help orchestrate local inflammatory responses. In sepsis and other pathological conditions, bacterial lipopolysaccharide endotoxin can induce alveolar macrophages (AM) to release proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1, and interleukin-6. Studying the mechanisms that control alveolar macrophage cytokine production may lead to better therapies for conditions involving inflammatory lung injury. We and others have noted significant differences between alveolar macrophages and peritoneal macrophages, but large numbers of human or murine alveolar macrophages are rarely available for detailed mechanistic studies. We have obtained three murine alveolar macrophage cell lines (AMJ2C8, AMJ2C11, and AMJ2C20) and have begun to characterize their cytokine responses to proinflammatory stimuli. We measured the effects of endotoxin, interferon gamma, and the combination of the two on production of tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1 beta, and interleukin-6 in each line. We also studied the expression of the endotoxin receptor CD14 by these cells, and investigated the effect of serum on their endotoxin responsiveness. We show here that all three of the cell lines responded in a manner comparable to that of primary murine alveolar macrophages. Observed variations between these lines may reflect the documented heterogeneity seen in populations of primary alveolar macrophages. These cell lines should expand the repertoire of tools available to investigators studying regulation of murine alveolar macrophage responses.
20616557|During the process of maturation in the oviduct, canine oocytes in the germinal vesicle stage are exposed to decreasing levels of estradiol-17 and increasing levels of progesterone. However, hormone concentrations in the microenvironments in which they act are higher than serum concentrations. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to compare the meiotic competence of canine oocytes harvested from anestrous bitches in culture medium containing high concentrations (20 g ml) of estradiol-17 and/or progesterone in association to gonadotropins (luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone) using three different maturation periods (48, 72, and 96 h). Oocytes were cultured in tissue culture medium (TCM-199) and arranged in four experimental groups: group control, group E2 (estradiol-17), group P4 (progesterone), and group E2 + P4. Regardless of the maturation period, groups P4 and E2 + P4 presented statistically higher rate of germinal vesicle breakdown oocytes compared to the group control and group E2. There were no significant differences among groups on germinal vesicle, metaphase I, metaphase II, and degenerated or unidentifiable oocytes rates. The mean percentage of metaphase II oocytes was higher at 96 h when compared to 72 h. Results of the present research indicate no influence of estradiol-17 supplementation, unless in association with progesterone. There is an evidence of the positive effect of progesterone on germinal vesicle breakdown. Results also showed that extended periods of in vitro maturation affect positively maturation rates to metaphase II of low competent oocytes harvested from anestrous bitches, independent of the maturation media. In conclusion, high concentrations of steroids, especially progesterone, have positive effect on in vitro oocyte maturation when the oocytes are derived from the anestrous status.
4295517|In a first series of experiments, the biological response of a continuous cell line of the beet armyworm, Spodoptera exigua, was tested with different groups of insecticides with different modes of actions: acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, acetycholine receptor agonists, inhibitors and uncouplers of oxidative phosphorylation, site I electron transport inhibitors, gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor inhibitors, chitin synthesis inhibitors, and juvenile hormone analogues. From the concentration response curves, 50% inhibition concentration (IC
4295664|Human embryonic stem (hES) cells require cooperative interactions with each other for their survival. Previously, the size of hES cell clumps has been reported to be an important factor in determining their viability during routine serial passage. However, the effects of seeding density of the hES cell clumps per se have not yet been investigated. Therefore, this study attempted to compare the level of spontaneous differentiation of hES colonies passaged at two different split ratios (1:3 and 1:8) of a single confluent well of a six-well dish. After 7 d of in vitro culture following serial passage, hES colonies were assigned into three grades according to their degree of spontaneous differentiation: (1) Grade A, which was completely or mostly undifferentiated; (2) grade B, which was partially differentiated; and (3) grade C, which was mostly differentiated. Assessment of the degree of spontaneous differentiation was based on morphological observations under bright-field and phase-contrast microscopy, as well as on immunocytochemical staining for the pluripotency markers SSEA-3 and TRA-1-81. We observed that, at a split ratio of 1:3, the percentages of grade A, B, and C colonies were 89.5, 8.8, and 1.7%, respectively. This was significantly different from the corresponding values of 52.7, 31.3, and 16.0%, respectively, obtained at a split ratio of 1:8. Hence, our results indicated that a lower passage density led to a higher degree of spontaneous differentiation of hES colonies.
4295151|Recombinant plasmids containing a complementary deoxyribonucleic acid coding mouse endostatin were transfected and stably expressed in Drosophila melanogaster Schneider 2 (S2) cells. Stably transformed polyclonal cell populations expressing recombinant endostatin were isolated after 4 wk of selection with hygromycin B. Recombinant endostatin expressed in the stably transformed S2 cells under the influence of the Drosophila BiP protein signal sequence was secreted into the medium. Recombinant endostatin was also purified to homogeneity using a simple one-step Ni
4295028|Primary cultures of the brain from sheep embryos were used to establish cell lines after transfection by the simian virus 40 (SV40) large T gene. Two of the lines (A15 and 4A6) displayed astroglial properties. They expressed the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), intermediate filament protein vimentin, and S-100 (beta-subunit) protein. While numerous rodent and human glial cell lines are available, this is to our knowledge the first description of ovine cell lines with astrocyte features. In addition, these cell lines were derived from sheep embryos chosen for their genetic susceptibility to scrapie (PrP genotype:
4294595| Previous studies have shown that the transcription of the TGF-2 gene is controlled by at least one negative and two positive regulatory regions in differentiated cells derived from both embryonal carcinoma cells and embryonic stem cells. The use of TGF-2 promoter/reporter gene constructs has also identified a CRE/ATF motif near the TATA box that appears to heavily influence the transcription of the TGF-2 gene. In this study, two choriocarcinoma cell lines, JAR and JEG-3, and the breast cancer cell line, MCF-7, were used to determine whether differences exist in the transcriptional regulation of the TGF-2 gene. We demonstrated that both similarities and differences exist in the transcriptional regulation of this gene. Common to all cells examined to date, the positive regulatory region just upstream of the TATA box contains an essential CRE/ATF motif that binds at least one transcription factor, ATF-1, in gel mobility shift assays. However, we did not detect ATF-2 binding to this site with any of the nuclear extracts used. We also determined that the effect of the region between - 187 and - 78 (relative to the transcription start site) is cell type dependent. Previous studies have shown that this region acts to reduce the activity of the TGF-2 promoter in differentiated cells derived from embryonal carcinoma cells and embryonic stem cells. In direct contrast, this region acts as a strong positive regulatory region in JAR, JEG-3, and MCF-7 cells. The mechanisms responsible for these differing effects remain to be established. Interestingly, this region does not appear to contain sequence motifs that bind known transcription factors. Thus, this region is likely to bind one or more novel transcription factors or contain novel recognition sites for known transcription factors. 
4295698|Previously, it was found that senescent cells can undergo a modified cell cycle with mitotic cells as the end results. The major cycling events started with polyploidization, followed by depolyploidization to multinucleated cells (MNCs). These latter cells produced mononuclear offspring cells that could express mitotic cell divisions. In this report the emphasis is on late senescent fibroblasts that exhibited the senescence-associated change in cell morphology to large flat cells. Prior to live cell photography, flat cell cultures were maintained for months in the same culture flasks and therefore judged to be in a late senescent phase. All of the cellular events outlined above were present in these old cell cultures. Time lapse pictures showed movements of mitotic daughter cells away from each other and alignment of the chromosomes on the metaphase plate was visible in other mitotic cells. These data challenge the common view that cell senescence is irreversible and, therefore, an antitumor mechanism. A new finding was that the spike in polyploid cells in the near senescent phase consisted of cells with pairs of sister chromosomes from endoreduplication of DNA (two rounds of DNA synthesis and no mitosis). The lack of cells with 92 single chromosomes (e.g., G2 tetraploid cells) suggested that these polyploid cells also went through a changed cell cycle. The question now is whether these atypical polyploid cells are a subpopulation in senescence that can undergo the cycling from polyploidy to genome-reduced mitotic cells.
4294928|Several members of the CD44 family of hyaluronan receptors are expressed on keratinocytes. To identify factors that might be important in regulating CD44 expression, we studied CD44 expression on keratinocytes growing in vitro under a variety of conditions and on cells isolated directly from epidermis. Using Western immunoblots and metabolic labeling, we showed that the pattern of CD44 proteins expressed by keratinocytes was strongly influenced by growth and differentiation. Many protein forms of CD44 are expressed on proliferating keratinocytes in preconfluent cultures, whereas only a few forms are expressed on differentiated cells and in confluent cultures. In preconfluent monolayers, at least four splice variants were identified, including epican, CD44H, CD44E, and a 180-kDa variant. In differentiated cells or in confluent cultures, by contrast, only epican and the 180-kDa protein variant were found. Synthesis of all variants is strongly downregulated when keratinocytes become confluent or when they differentiate. Epican is the predominant form of CD44 on keratinocytes under all conditions and is expressed as a heparan, chondroitin, or keratan sulfate proteoglycan. Preconfluent basal keratinocytes, but not confluent or differentiated keratinocytes, also express chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan forms of CD44E and of the 180-kDa core protein. The modal size of the epican expressed on differentiated keratinocytes is smaller than the size of the epican expressed on basal keratinocytes. Thus, cell confluence and differentiation regulate several aspects of CD44 expression on keratinocytes, suggesting nuances in function for the different protein forms.
20616544|The intent of this study was to characterize the effect OTK18 upregulation in monocytic cells had on neuronal survival. The human monocytic cell line, U937, was differentiated into macrophages or left as an undifferentiated monocyte. These cells were transfected with a plasmid containing the enhanced green fluorescent protein and OTK18 (pEGFP-OTK18) or an empty control vector (pEGFP-N3). The supernatants from the transfected U937 cells were used to culture rat neuronal cells (PC12). A live/dead assay was performed to determine the effect of culturing on cell survival. The protein levels of the neurotoxin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-), and the neurotrophin, neurotrophin three (NT3), were determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. The results of the live/dead assay showed differential cell survival between conditions with pEGFP-OTK18 when compared to the control empty vector. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assays demonstrated that OTK18 had an increased expression level when compared to the control. Lastly, NT3 protein levels were upregulated in treated cells with increased OTK18 expression, suggesting that OTK18 may play a role in neurotrophin production and consequently support neuronal survival.
40802388|The main purpose of this study was to investigate lysozyme synthesis and secretion in three human monocyte cell lines: U-937, HL-60, and THP-1, using sensitive fluorescence-based assay of lysozyme activity. PMA and hIFN- were evaluated for inducing lysozyme activity. Using well-defined cell lines from the cell culture collection, no lysozyme activity could be detected in the cultured U-937 cells either with or without addition of the inducing factors. These data suggested, contrary to previous reports, that U-937 cell line cannot synthesize or secrete active lysozyme. THP-1 and HL-60 cells were proved to produce enzymatically active lysozyme in increasing amounts with the time course. PMA and hIFN- had no significant inducing effect on the production or the release of active lysozyme in THP-1 and HL-60 cells. We showed inhibiting effect of PMA and hIFN- on the lysozyme activity, particularly in HL-60 cell line.
41417657|Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) hold great promise for use in cell-based therapies because of their multipotency and simple methods for in vitro expansion. However, during in vitro expansion, MSCs will age and lose their multipotency and proliferation capability. Previous studies have reported that calorie restriction (CR) increases proliferation of MSCs and decreases apoptosis. Therefore, in this study, we examined the effect of low glucose (LG) on human bone marrow-derived MSCs. Proliferation under low glucose (LG, 1.4 mM) conditions was compared with that under normal glucose (NG, 5.5 mM) conditions. In addition, comparative studies of population doubling (PD), -galactosidase (-GAL) activity, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and differentiation capacity (osteocytes and adipocytes) in NG and LG conditions were performed. In addition, protein expression patterns were compared between NG and LG conditions and several proteins were found to be up-or down-regulated under the glucose restriction condition (LG condition). As a result, CR does not seem to have a significant effect on proliferation, ROS generation, glucose consumption concentration, population doublings, and adipogenic differentiation of MSCs. Interestingly, however, the differentiation potential into osteocytes was maintained under CR and a lower senescence-associated -galactosidase (-GAL) activity was observed under CR than under the NG condition. In addition, we determined three up-regulated proteins (aldehyde dehydrogenase, neuropolyprptide h3, and prolyl 4-hydroxylase alpha subunit) and seven down-regulated proteins (lamininbinding protein, actin, sec 13 protein, alpha soluble N ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF)-attachment protein (SNAP), manganese Superoxide dismutase, proteasome alpha 1 subunit, and ribosomal protein S12) via twodimensional electrophoresis analysis. These results imply that differentially expressed proteins under the LG condition may provide further information on the aging and differentiation of stem cells.
20869554|Electrospun nanofibrous scaffolds varying different materials are fabricated for tissue engineering. PLGA, silk fibroin, and collagen-derived scaffolds have been proved on good biocompatibility with neurons. However, no systematic studies have been performed to examine the PLGAsilk fibroincollagen (PLGA-SF-COL) biocomposite fiber matrices for nerve tissue engineering. In this study, different weight ratio PLGA-SF-COL (50:25:25, 30:35:35) scaffolds were produced via electrospinning. The physical and mechanical properties were tested. The average fiber diameter ranged from 280+26 to 168+21 nm with high porosity and hydrophilicity; the tensile strength was 1.760.32 and 1.250.20 Mpa, respectively. The results demonstrated that electrospinning polymer blending is a simple and effective approach for fabricating novel biocomposite nanofibrous scaffolds. The properties of the scaffolds can be strongly influenced by the concentration of collagen and silk fibroin in the biocomposite. To assay the cytocompatibility, Schwann cells were seeded on the scaffolds; cell attachment, growth morphology, and proliferation were studied. SEM and MTT results confirmed that PLGA-SF-COL scaffolds particularly the one that contains 50% PLGA, 25% silk fibroin, and 25% collagen is more suitable for nerve tissue engineering compared to PLGA nanofibrous scaffolds.
4294049| We have developed a system for serum-free culture of separated uterine epithelium and stroma from 11-day-old rats recombined on extracellular matrix extracted from Englebreth-Holm-Swarm tumors. Epithelium grew and, after 2 days in culture, developed into luminal epithelial spheres (LES) surrounding a fluid-filled lumen. Individual LES cells maintained epithelial cell characteristics such as basally located nuclei, apical microvilli (oriented toward the lumen), lateral membranes with interdigitations and desmosomes, secretory Golgi complexes, and abundant mitochondria and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Secretory vesicles were ubiquitous throughout the luminal fluid. Addition of 17-estradiol to the growth medium increased the number and longevity of the LES. Prior exposure of uteri to tamoxifen via s.c. injection in vivo on postnatal Days 1 to 5 reduced or completely inhibited formation of LES in vitro. These effects occurred regardless of whether the stromal or epithelial component of the recombinant tissue was exposed to tamoxifen. These data suggest a directive property of neonatal stroma in culture resulting in the formation of highly secretory spherical epithelial structures completely enclosing a lumen. LES formation is responsive to both estrogen (positive response) and antiestrogen (negative response). 
4295651| A cell line derived from the larval-fat body tissues of the wax moth, Galleria mellonella Linne, was established in MGM-450 medium. The cells grew in suspension and were mainly spherical in shape. Population doubling time was between 1.4 and 1.7 d over a range of 15 to 35 C, and the maximum growth rate was at 25 C. The chromosome number ranged from 70-239, with a mode of 170. The cells were sensitive to 20-hydroxyecdysone, which stimulated their growth and induced morphological changes. The cell line was designated GaMe-LF1. 
4294865|To develop serum-free (SF) media for the production of humanized antibody from recombinant Chinese hamster ovary (rCHO) cells, a statistical optimization approach based on a Plackett-Burman design was adopted. A basal medium was prepared by supplementing
40663793|OxFl is a human embryonic stem cell line derived from a surplus embryo donated through the Oxford IVF clinic. The cells have a stable 46 XX karyotype and show expression of Oct 4, Nanog and TRA-1-60. Embryoid bodies differentiate into cells that represent all three germ layers as demonstrated by immunohistochemical localisation of beta III tubulin, nestin, desmin, smooth muscle actin, Gata 6 and cytokeratin 18. Directed differentiation through haematopoiesis has been demonstrated.
4295164|Microgravity interferes with numerous lymphocyte functions (expression of cell surface molecules, locomotion, polyclonal and antigen-specific activation, and the protein kinase C activity in signal transduction). The latter suggests that gravity may also affect programmed cell death (PCD) in lymphocyte populations. To test this hypothesis, we investigated spontaneous, activation- and radiation-induced PCD in peripheral blood mononuclear cells exposed to modeled micro-gravity (MMG) using a rotating cell culture system. The results showed significant inhibition of radiation- and activation-induced apoptosis in MMG and provide insights into the potential mechanisms of this phenomenon.
40205923|Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) have gained considerable attention as a potential source for cell transplantation therapies for a variety of diseases due to their accessibility, proliferative capacity, and multilineage differentiation properties. Canine BMSCs have been shown to contribute to regeneration of osseous tissues, but knowledge about their biology is currently limited. In the present study, we investigated the frequency of adult canine BMSCs in bone marrow, morphological features, growth kinetics, and osteogenic as well as adipogenic differentiation properties in vitro. Our data suggest that adult canine bone marrow contains approximately one BMSC in every 2.3810 bone marrow mononucleated cells (0.00420.0019%, n=5). Primary BMSC cultures consisted of morphologically heterogeneous adherent cell populations from which spindle-shaped cells grew and became the predominant cell type. Growth kinetics patterns were dependent on the initial cell seeding densities, resulting in the highest fold increase at lower cell density. In the presence of osteogenic and adipogenic inducers, primary BMSCs underwent morphological and phenotypic changes characteristic of osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation, respectively. This study provides insights into basic characterization of adult canine BMSCs.
4294628|The development of a serum-free medium that supports the growth of cells from a Spodoptera frugiperda and a Lymantria dispar cell line is reported. A yeast hydrolysate provided the B-vitamin complex, and a combination of a meat hydrolysate and tryptose provided most of the free amino acids required for cell growth. Supplemental cystine and methionine were required to achieve maximum cell growth. The serum or serum replacements used in earlier formulations were replaced with commercial lipid preparations and increased levels of iron salts. Although the cell growth cycle had a somewhat extended lag phase and the population doubling time of the S.frugiperda cells was longer than on serum-containing medium, the saturation densities were much higher. Spodoptera cells grown in this medium replicated the Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus well, producing
40205812|The corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis, is a very important pest in different countries, and the in vitro system of the insect could be a useful tool for isolation and characterization of the pathogens and physiological responses of the insect. In this context, a cell line was derived from the hemocytes of the European corn borer and was named AFKM-On-H for, respectively, O. nubilalis, Armand Frappier, King Mongkut Institutes, and Hemocytes. This cell line was initiated and maintained in Ex-Cell 400 medium supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum. The cells, mostly spherical in shape, not firmly attached to the plastic culture flasks, were passaged up to 200 times by repeated gentle pipetting of the cells. The doubling times at the 80th and 125th passages at 28C and at the 122th and 169th passages at 25C were 40, 29, 35, and 34 h, respectively. The AFKM-On-H cell line was further characterized by the morphology, karyotype, ran dom amplified polymorphic DNA analysis, and isozyme profiles. Susceptibility of the cell line to cytoplasmic polyhedrosis viruses (CPV) Euxoa scandens (EsCPV), Dendrolimus punctatus (DpCPV), and Choristoneura fumiferana (CfCPV); nuclear polyhedrosis viruses [Autographa californica (AcMNPV) wild type and recombinant, Antherea yammamai (AnyaNPV)]; and Chilo iridescent virus was demonstrated. Relative sensitivities of the cell line to Bacillus thuringiensis and Metarhizium anisopliae toxins and effects of the molting hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone on this new hemocyte cell line were characterized.
4295346| Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S-1-P) has been identified as an extracellular mediator and an intracellular second messenger that may modulate cell motility, adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation and cancer cell invasion. Widely distributed, S-l-P is most abundant in the intestine. Although S-l-P is likely to modulate various intracellular pathways, activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) such as extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 (ERK1), ERK2, and p38 is among the best-characterized S-l-P effects. Because the MAPKs regulate proliferation, we hypothesized that S-l-P might stimulate intestinal epithelial cell proliferation by MAPK activation. Human Caco-2 intestinal epithelial cells were cultured on a fibronectin matrix because fibronectin is an important constituent of the gut mucosal basement membrane. We assessed ERK1, ERK2, and p38 activation by Western blotting with antibodies specific for their active forms and proliferation by Coulter counting at 24 h. Specific MAP kinase kinase (MEK) and p38 inhibitors PD98059 (20 M) and SB202190 and SB203580 (10 and 20 M) were used to probe the role of ERK and p38 in S-1-P-mediated proliferation. Three or more similar studies were pooled for the analysis. S-l-P stimulated Caco-2 proliferation and doseresponsively activated ERK1, ERK2, and p38. Proliferation peaked at 5 M, yielding a cell number 166.3  2.7% of the vehicle control (n = 6, P < 0.05). S-l-P also maximally stimulated ERK1, ERK2, and p38 at 5 M, to 164.4  19.9%, 232.2  38.5%, and 169.2  20.5% of the control, respectively. Although MEK inhibition prevented S-l-P activation of ERK1 and ERK2 and slightly but significantly inhibited basal Caco-2 proliferation, MEK inhibition did not block the S-l-P mitogenic effect. However, pretreatment with 10 M SB202190 or SB203580 (putative p38 inhibitors) attenuated the stimulation of proliferation by S-l-P. Twenty micromolars of SB202190 or SB203580 completely blocked the mitogenic effect of S-l-P. Ten to twenty micromolars of SB202190 and SB203580 also dose-dependently ablated the effects of 5 M S-l-P on heat shock protein 27 accumulation, a downstream consequence of p38 MAPK activation. Consistent with the reports in some other cell types, S-l-P appears to activate ERK1, ERK2, and p38 and to stimulate proliferation. However, in contrast to the mediation of the S-l-P effects in some other cell types, S-l-P appears to stimulate human intestinal epithelial proliferation by activating p38. ERK activation by S-l-P is not required for its mitogenic effect. 
4294324|A model for the coculture of chondrocytes in gelified agarose with mononuclear cells was developed to serve as an in vitro equivalent for cytokine-mediated events at the cartilage-synovial pannus junction in destructive arthropathies. Chondrocytes cultured in agarose keep their phenotypic stability. They release cartilage-specific aggrecans into the surrounding artificial matrix. When activated with lipopolysaccharide for 1 h, mononuclear cells release Interleukin 1 and Tumor Necrosis Factor , thereby stimulating the chondrocytes to produce Interleukin 6, to diminish incorporation of
4295354| Elucidation of the bovine mammary gland's unique characteristics depends on obtaining an authentic cell line that will reproduce its function in vitro. Representative clones from bovine mammary cell populations, differing in their attachment capabilities, were cultured. L-l cells showed strong attachment to the plate, whereas H-7 cells detached easily. Cultures established from these clones were nontumorigenic upon transplantation to an immunodeficient host; they exhibited the epithelial cell characteristics of positive cytokeratin but not smooth muscle actin staining. Both cell lines depended on fetal calf serum for proliferation. They exhibited distinct levels of differentiation on Matrigel in serum-free, insulin-supplemented medium on the basis of their organization and -lactoglobulin (BLG) secretion. H-7 cells organized into mammospheres, whereas L-l cells arrested in a duct-like morphology. In both cell lines, prolactin activated phosphorylation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription, Stat5-a regulator of milk protein gene transcription, and of PHAS-I-an inhibitor of translation initiation in its nonphosphorylated form. De novo synthesis and secretion of BLG were detected in differentiated cultures: in L-l cells, BLG was dependent on lactogenic hormones for maximal induction but was less stringently controlled than was P-casein in the mouse CID-9 cell line. L-l cells also encompassed a near-diploid chromosomal karyotype and may serve as a tool for studying functional characteristics of the bovine mammary gland. 
4295122|To study biological character and function of epithelial rests of Malassez (ERM) in human periodontal ligament, we have developed a serum-free culture system of epithelial cells (ME) derived from ERM. The mitogenic effects of fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-l, FGF-2, and FGF-7/keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) on ME, human periodontal ligament-derived fibroblasts (PLF), human oral epithelial cells (OE), and human submandibular gland-derived epithelial cells (SGE) were investigated under a serum-free culture condition. FGF-1 and FGF-7/KGF stimulated the growth of both ME and SGE but FGF-2 had no effect. On the other hand, FGF-1, FGF-2, and FGF-7/KGF increased the OE proliferation. These results suggested that the divergent requirement of FGF ligands among these cells would be attributed to the different expression pattern of FGF receptor (FGFR) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) isotypes. Therefore, we examined the expression of FGFR isotypes in these cells. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis of ME- and SGE-derived mRNAs revealed the presence of mRNA encoding FGFR2-IIIb, a high affinity receptor for FGF-1 and FGF-7/KGF. However, no mRNAs for other FGFR isotypes were detected in both ME and SGE. On the contrary, OE expressed FGFRl-IIIc, FGFR3-IIIb, and FGFR4 mRNAs as well as FGFR2-IIlb. These results indicate that FGF binding sites on ME dominantly bind to FGF-1 and FGF-7/KGF, which transduce their signals via FGFR2-IIIb. Immunohisto-chemical analysis, PCR-Southern, ribonuclease protection assay (RPA), and Western blotting revealed that PLF expressed FGF-7/KGF mRNA and its peptide. These observations suggest that FGF-7/KGF might mediate epithelial-mesenchymal interactions between ME and PLF to maintain normal structure and function of periodontal ligament.
4295574|Precise paracrine cross-talk between the embryo and the endometrium is essential for the establishment of a successful pregnancy. Previous studies have demonstrated that the expression of interleukin-8 (IL-8) in the endometrium is enhanced during the late-secretory phase and early pregnancy. Furthermore, IL-8 receptor (IL-8R) expression has been detected in trophoblast cells of the developing embryo. To clarify the roles of IL-8 in the endometrium-embryo interactions, the effects of IL-8 on hormone secretion by trophoblast cells were studied using the BeWo trophoblast cell line that retains hormone-secreting properties of normal trophoblast cells. Using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, we found that IL-8R messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) was expressed in BeWo cells. The levels of IL-8R mRNA and protein expression in BeWo cells were similar to those in primary first-trimester trophoblast cells. Progesterone (P4) secretion of BeWo cells was comparable with that of first-trimester trophoblast cells but higher than that of third-trimester trophoblast cells. Treatment of BeWo cells with recombinant human IL-8 (rhIL-8) had no effect on cell proliferation, as determined by the 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. Interestingly, secretion of P4, but not human chorionic gonadotropin, from cultured BeWo cells was significantly enhanced when the cells were incubated with rhIL-8. Our results demonstrate that IL-8 may play an important role in the endometrium-embryo interactions by stimulating trophoblast secretion of P4 for maintenance of a successful pregnancy.
40205938|Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) plays an important role in suppressing the growth of cancer. In this paper, the synergetic anticancer effect of combination DHA with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was investigated in gastric carcinoma cells. We found that DHA inhibited the growth of cultured SGC7901 cells at different concentrations in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Furthermore, the growth-inhibition activities of increasing concentration of 5-FU were markedly enhanced when different doses of 5-FU were administered in the combination with dose as low as 40 g/ml of DHA. The early phase of apoptosis was increased in DHAand 5-FU-treated cells. In the case of apoptotic genes expression in the combination-treated cells, BAX mRNA expression increased, whereas FAS, BCL-2, BCL2L12, and CASPASE-9 mRNA expression decreased. These results suggest that DHA strongly enhances the anticancer effect of 5-FU. Moreover, the application of both compounds on gastric cancer cells provides a new potential approach for cancer therapy.
23353407|Skin is a barrier which protects injured tissues, and thus, skin regeneration is one of many important medical issues. Tissue engineering is an attractive approach to make artificial tissue or regenerate lost tissues. While constituting artificial tissues, cells must infiltrate through scaffolds, maintaining viability and proliferation. However, a three-dimensional tissue culture involves stressful environments due to several reasons such as mass or gas transport and high cell density. Once stressed, cells produce reactive oxygen species, resulting in alleviating cellular viability and activity. Spirulina is well known to have antioxidant molecules, which have been known to modulate oxidative stress to cells. Electrospun nanofiber has widely been used as a scaffold to mimic natural extracellular matrix. In this research, we assessed Spirulina extract-imbedded nanofiber as a scaffold for an artificial skin tissue. Spirulina extract was proven to positively affect viability and proliferation of mouse fibroblasts. In addition, fibroblasts infiltrated through Spirulina extract-imbedded electrospun nanofiber without cytotoxicity.
4294823| In steroid target tissues, the presence of the corresponding hormone receptors is indicative of hormone dependence. In an attempt to assess the possible role of steroid hormones in the mechanism of growth and/or differentiation of cancerous pancreatic duct cells, the expression of estrogen receptor (ER) was evaluated in human cancerous pancreatic duct cells (Capan-1) maintained in culture. These cells were selected as they acquire progressively a high degree of differentiation during growth in culture. In the present study, we showed that Capan-1 cells during growth in steroid-free medium associate spontaneously, become polarized, and form duct-like structures, features that are indicative of a high degree of differentiation. Capan-1 cells were also found to express ERa and progesterone receptor (PR). Immunoenzymatic assay showed maximal expression of ERa (236  55 fmol/mg protein) on the first day of the exponential growth phase, followed by a marked fall in expression (76.3%). At the onset of the stationary phase (Day 5), ER levels were below 10 fmol/mg protein, becoming undetectable by Day 7. A similar time course was observed for PR: 18  0.9 fmol/mg protein at the onset of the exponential growth phase and no expression during the stationary phase. Addition of estradiol to 1-d-old cultures resulted in a twofold increase in PR expression, suggesting an induction of PR expression by estrogen. Immunocytochemical analysis with anti-ER-lD5 antibodies showed nuclear and cytoplasmic localization of ER in Capan-1 cells in the first 24 h of culture followed by a progressive disappearance thereafter. We also showed that cellular multiplication was increased by estradiol and progesterone during the exponential growth phase, pointing to the involvement of steroid hormones in the proliferation of nonpolarized Capan-1 cells. These results indicate that the expression of ER is linked to the state of differentiation of the cells and make Capan-1 cells a model of choice to study ER regulation in nontarget tissues. 
4294954| A growing number of studies on the mechanism of leukocyte transendothelial migration use endothelial cells grown on microporous filters as an in vitro model of endothelium. Ultrastructural examination of such a model system previously demonstrated that human pulmonary artery endothelial cells (HPAEC) formed confluent monolayers on both sides of the 3-m-pore filter (Mackarel et al., 1999). To determine whether this was a characteristic specific to pulmonary artery endothelial cells, the growth characteristics of a human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cell type (HMVEC-L) and the widely used human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) on 3-m microporous filters were examined by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Similar to HPAEC, HMVEC-L and HUVEC were also found to grow on both sides of the filter. All three endothelial cell types were capable of migrating through the 3 m pores of the filter to form a monolayer on the filter underside. The endothelial cells on the underside were orientated in an inverted position with the luminal surface facing away from the filter. Such 'bilayer' formation was observed at a range of seeding densities and in different culture media. Despite the presence of a bilayer of endothelial cells, TEM demonstrated that neutrophils migrated successfully across the cell-filter-cell system. Previous transmigration reports in which an in vitro model similar to ours was used have often assumed only one layer of endothelial cells. The observations reported here indicate that while endothelial cells on microporous filters are useful models for examining leukocyte-endothelial interactions, they are not appropriate for studies examining endothelial cell 'sidedness.' 
41408875|Feeder cells of irradiated mouse fibroblasts are commonly used for, and are generally necessary for, the in vitro maintenance and growth of many fastidious cell types, particularly embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells. Quantitative and semiquantitative immunoassays of conditioned media were performed to identify some of the soluble cytokines, chemokines, protein hormones, and cell matrix/adhesion molecules that are elaborated from two commonly used feeder cells, STO and CF-1. Among those quantitatively assayed, the most abundant cytokine proteins expressed by the feeder cells were activin A, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), insulin-like growth factor 1, insulin-like growth factor 2, insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP)-6, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (a. k. a. CSF-1), and pigment epithelium-derived factor (a. k. a. serine protease inhibitor, clade F, member 1). CF-1 cells expressed ten times more activin A than STO cells and also produced larger amounts of interleukin-6 and IGFBP-2, IGFBP-3, IGFBP-4, and IGFBP-5. Conversely, STO cell produced almost ten times more HGF and five times more stem cell factor (a. k. a. c-kit ligand) than CF-1 cells. Assayed semiquantitatively, relatively large amounts of chemokines were produced by both feeder cells including fractalkine (CX3CL1), interferon-inducible protein 10 (a. k. a. CXCL10 and cytokine-responsive gene-2, CRG-2), monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-l (a. k. a. CCL2 and junctional epithelium chemokine (JE), MCP-5/CCL12), keratinocyte-derived chemokine (a. k. a. CXCL1 and growth-related oncogene alpha, GRO), nephroblastoma overexpressed gene (CCN3, IGFBP-9), stromal cellderived factor 1 (CXCL12), and serpin El (PAI-1). In contrast to one another, STO produced more CXCL16 than CF-1 cells, and CF-1 cell produced more MCP-5 (CCL12), macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1 (CCL3), MIP-l (CCL4), pentraxin-3 (TSG-14), and platelet factor-4 (CXCL4) than STO cells. Soluble adhesion molecule, sICAM (ICAM-1, CD54), was expressed by CF-1 cells, but not STO cells, and similarly, the cell matrix-associated molecules endocan (endothelial cell-specific molecule 1), endostatin (collagen XVIII), and matrix metalloproteinase 3 were expressed more by CF-1 cells. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 was robustly expressed by both feeder cells. Other proteins primarily detected from CF-1 cells included retinol-binding protein 4 and FGF21, while STO cells secreted more interferon gamma. Both feeder cells produced no or low amounts of LIF, tumor necrosis factor alpha, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGFB, prolactin, various interleukins, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-1, FGF-2, FGF-7, EGF, HB-EGF, and amphiregulin. The results may explain some of the cell growth and maintenance responses by various types of cells co-cultured on STO or CF-1 feeder cells.
4294733|Sodium alginate, which gels in the presence of calcium ions, is commonly used for culture of anchorage-independent cells, such as chondrocytes. Normally, the gel appears microscopically homogeneous but, depending on the conditions of gelation, it may contain a varying number of small channels that extend inward from the surface. We have examined the influence of these channels on the morphology of cultured chondrocytes entrapped in alginate beads. Growth-plate or articular chondrocytes cultured in alginate normally proliferate and form rounded cell clusters but, in alginate beads containing numerous channels, many chondrocytes become aligned and form columns similar to those in the growth plate in vivo. As the pattern of cellular growth and morphology in alginate is profoundly influenced by the presence of channels in the gel, further studies were conducted to determine what specific conditions of gelation affect their formation. The channels are especially numerous when both the alginate and the gelling solutions lack sodium ions or other monovalent cations. The channels are cavities in the gel formed by particulate blocking of the rapid diffusion of calcium ions from the gelling solution into the boundary of the calcium alginate solution, and hence they extend inward from cells at the surface of the alginate gel. An understanding of the conditions under which these channels develop makes it possible either to avoid their formation or, alternatively, to enhance the number of channels in order to encourage proliferating cells to grow in radial columns, rather than in a less organized pattern characteristic of most culture systems.
40205945|Baculoviruses are insect-specific viruses. These large DNA viruses encode many genes in addition to those required to replicate and build new virions. These auxiliary genes provide selective advantages to the virus for invading and infecting host insects. Eight of these genes, which help the virus overcome insect defenses against invasion, are discussed. These include genes whose products help the virus traverse physical or physiological barriers and those that overcome host immune defenses.
4295245|In the present study, we have analyzed tumor deoxyribonucleic acid from oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cells for patched mutations using an exon-by-exon single strand conformation polymorphism assay and direct sequencing. We found two missense mutations which affected the conserved residue in the transmembrane domains of the gene product and in the intracellular loop at the C-terminal residue implicated in regulating the smoothened molecule. In addition, we demonstrated that the N-terminal fragment of sonic hedgehog (Shh-N) stimulates the growth of normal epithelial cells, the OSCC cell line, NA, and the salivary gland adenocarcinoma cell lines, HSG and HSY, which have no detectable mutation in patched. On the other hand, Shh has no effect on human SCC cells (UE, KA, KO, NI, A431 cells) that have mutations in patched. These results strongly suggest that an Shh-patched signaling is involved in the cell growth of oral epithelial cells and in the tumorigenesis of OSCCs.
4295489| Here, we reported the effects of 17-estradiol (E2), isoflavone genistein (Gen), and daidzein (Dai) on the production of interferon (IFN)- by splenocytes isolated from C57BL/6N mice. When mouse splenocytes were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide, E2, Gen, and Dai suppressed the production of IFN-. However, when only nonadherent cell populations of splenocytes were tested, none of these estrogenic compounds suppressed production. This result indicates that IFN- production by nonadherent cell populations of splenocytes treated with estrogens is regulated by adherent cell populations. Moreover, direct cell-cell interaction between both populations was necessary for suppression of  production by nonadherent populations. In addition, E2 conjugated with bovine serum albumin inhibited  production as well as E2. This result suggests that the plasma membrane-associated estrogen receptor plays a prominent role in this suppression mechanism. 
20616565|Besides their role as potent antigen-presenting cells, myeloid dendritic cells (MDCs), but not plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDCs), have been reported to have cytotoxic or cytostatic activity on some tumor cells. In this article, we analyzed the tumoristatic potential of a distinct peripheral blood monocyte-derived MDC subset which co-expressed PDC-specific marker CD123. CD123 MDCs represented a subset of small-sized DCs and accounted for 45-60% of peripheral blood monocytes cultured with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukine-4 (IL-4) for 7 d. They exhibited more significant antiproliferative activity toward hematological tumor cell lines of Jurkat, HL60, and myelodysplastic syndromes over-leukemia than CD123 MDCs even at a low effecter/target ratio. Pretreatment of MDC and their supernatant with TRAIL-R2:Fc significantly reduced the tumoristatic effect of CD123 MDCs but not of CD123 MDCs and their supernatant. CD123 MDCs expressed higher level of cytoplasmic TNF--related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) than CD123 MDCs, whereas both expressed very little surface and soluble TRAIL. These results reveal that CD123 cells represented a predominant subset of MDCs generated from peripheral blood monocytes in vitro, characterized by their potential tumoristic activity partially via cytoplasmic TRAIL.
4294992|This paper presents a reliable method for establishing pure cultures of the three types of corneal cells. This is believed to be the first time, corneal cells have been cultured from fetal pig corneas. Cell growth studies were performed in different media. Subcultures of the three corneal cell types were passaged until the 30th generation without their showing signs of senescence. For engineering an in vitro cornea, corneal epithelial cells were cultured over corneal stromal cells in an artificial biomatrix of collagen with an underlying layer of corneal endothelial cells. The morphology, histology, and differentiation of the in vitro cornea were investigated to determine the degree of comparability to the cornea in vivo. The in vitro construct displayed signs of transition to an organotypic phenotype of which the most prominent was the formation of two basement membranes.
20869595|We investigated relationship between the maturity and density of muscle cells and developed a rapid isolation method to acquire stem cells from skeletal muscle. Mononuclear cells were isolated from the lower hind-limb muscles of 7-d-old male SpragueDawley rats and separated by Percoll density gradient centrifugation. After centrifugation, the cells were layered in the interfaces between each Percoll density layer. Flow cytometry was used to investigate the Sca-1, Pax7, CD34, CD45, M-cadherin, and myosin expression of the cells in each density layer. We found that CD45-positive cells were not present in freshly isolated muscle cells. CD34-, Pax7-positive cells were mainly observed at the interface between the 15% and 25% Percoll layers and had a density of 1.02351.0355 g/ml. Cells positive for M-cadherin were at the 2535% Percoll density interface and had a density of 1.03551.0492 g/ml. We conclude that because there appears to be a correlation between maturity and density, muscle-derived stem cells may be isolated successfully from the 1525% Percoll interface.
20616555|The Asian citrus psyllid (AsCP), Diaphorina citri Kuwayama (Hemiptera: Psyllidae), is a highly competent vector of the phloem-inhabiting bacterium Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus associated with the citrus disease huanglongbing (HLB). Commonly referred to as citrus greening disease in the USA, HLB causes reduced fruit yields, quality, and ultimately tree death and is considered the most serious citrus disease. HLB has become a major limiting factor to the production of citrus worldwide. Studies of HLB have been impeded by the fact that C. Liberibacter has not yet been cultured on artificial nutrient media. After being acquired by a psyllid, C. Liberibacter asiaticus is reported to replicate within the psyllid and is retained by the psyllid throughout its life span. We therefore hypothesized that C. Liberibacter asiaticus could be cultured in vitro using psyllid cell cultures as the medium and investigated the establishment of a pure culture for AsCP cells. Several commercially available insect cell culture media along with some media we developed were screened for viability to culture cells from AsCP embryos. Cells from psyllid tissues adhered to the plate and migration was observed within 24 h. Cells were maintained at 20C. We successfully established primary psyllid cell cultures, referred to as DcHH-1, for D. citri Hert-Hunter-1, with a new media, Hert-Hunter-70.
4294081|Pancreatic duct cells secrete water and ions, bicarbonate in particular. The study of these secretion processes is hindered by the unavailability of human pancreatic tissue. In this study, pancreatic human cells of the Capan-1 cell line were employed to investigate secretion in vitro. These cells are of ductal origin because in standard culture they polarize spontaneously forming domes in the culture dishes, indicating the existence of transepithelial exchange of water and electrolytes. In culture in suspension, Capan-1 cells form hollow spheroids bounded by a cell monolayer in a radial organization. These three-dimensional structures could be maintained in culture for more than 140 days. In young cultures, the cells of these spheroids grew rapidly (mitotic index = 9.2% on Day 2). Their cytologic features were analyzed by immunocytochemical, cytoenzymatic methods, and by electron microscopy. We showed that they are: a) polarized with an apical pole facing the culture medium; b) organized in a monolayer; c) bound by tight junctions and desmosomes; d) characterized by a particular distribution of enzyme systems known to play a role in ion exchanges, with placental-type alkaline phosphatases and carbonic anhydrases IV on their apical membranes and
20869532|Three different commercially available media, known to support human and porcine-specific fibroblast cultures, were tested for their growth potential on goat skin explants. Although outgrowth of fibroblasts was observed in all media tested, irrespective of breed, porcine-specific media exhibited higher rate of growth. Using this media, three fibroblast cell lines (GSF289, GSF737, and GSF2010) from ear skin explants of normal healthy dairy goats of Kiko and Saanen breed were successfully established in culture. Liquid nitrogen stocks of these frozen cells had a viability rate of 96.2% in in vitro cultures. These cells were morphologically indistinguishable from the cell stocks prior to freezing. Analysis of the growth of a fifth passage culture revealed an 'S' shaped growth curve with a population doubling time of 25 h. The cell lines were found negative for microbial, fungal, and mycoplasma contaminations. These goat skin fibroblast lines and the simple method of their isolation and freezing with high rate of viability will provide additional tools to study molecular mechanisms that regulate fibroblast function and for genetic manipulation of small ruminants.
4295512|Animal models have long been used to elucidate the mechanisms responsible for osteoporosis in humans. The American black bear, an animal that does not experience extensive bone loss normally associated with long-term immobilization (when hibernating), may provide an insight into the nature of the pathogenesis of the disease. Circulating growth and differentiation factors present in the serum may facilitate continued proliferation of bone-forming cells. The aim of our study was to determine the effects of bear serum on human osteoblasts when cultured for extended periods of time. Unexpectedly, exposure to the bear serum in vitro led to the detachment of osteoblasts from the surface of the culture plate after 3 d of incubation. The osteoblasts pulled off the polystyrene surface in sheets and aggregated into floating conglomerations of viable cells. In contrast, osteoblasts cultured in fetal calf serum maintained adherence to the surface of the culture plate. Detachment of osteoblasts propagated in bear serum was time dependent and was associated with an increased expression of integrins compared with osteoblasts propagated in fetal calf serum, as indicated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunostaining.
20869557|Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is routinely used in the laboratory as a solvent and vehicle for organic molecules. Although it has been used in previous studies involving myeloid cells and macrophages, we are unaware of data demonstrating the effects of DMSO alone on osteoclast development. Recently, we were using DMSO as a vehicle and included a non-vehicle control. Surprisingly, we observed a marked change in osteoclast development, and therefore designed this study to examine the effects of DMSO on osteoclast development. Osteoclasts were generated from two sources: bone marrow macrophages and an osteoclast progenitor cell line. Cells were cultured with DMSO for various durations and at differing concentrations and mature, multinucleated (>3 nuclei) TRAP cells were assessed in terms of cell number, cell surface area, and number of nuclei/cell. Osteoclast surface area increased in 5 M DMSO to a mean of 156,422 pixels from a mean of 38,510 pixels in control culture, and subsequently decreased in 10 M DMSO to a mean of 18,994 pixels. With serial addition of DMSO over 5 d, a significant increase in mean surface area, and number of nuclei/cell was also observed, while the opposite was true when DMSO was serially removed from culture. These findings show that DMSO exerts a marked effect on osteoclast differentiation. Since many investigators use DMSO to solubilize compounds for treatment of osteoclasts, caution is warranted as altering DMSO concentrations may have a profound effect on the final data, especially if osteoclast differentiation is being assessed.
4295236|Due to their abundance and accessibility, mesothelial cells may be suitable tools for recombinant reagent expression by gene transfer. Genetically modified porcine mesothelial cells (PMCs) may have the potential for the treatment of vascular diseases in humans. We studied the effect of various transfection reagents on the primary culture of PMCs and human mesothelial cells (HMCs). The cells were transfected with a plasmid encoding a reporter gene (luciferase or green fluorescent protein [GFP]) under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter. Transfection was achieved using cationic lipids (DOSPER and DOTAP) or calcium phosphate/deoxyribonucleic acid coprecipitation or Fugene 6. Results showed that Fugene 6 was the most efficient and reproducible transfection reagent with both PMCs and HMCs. With Fugene 6, luciferase activity in PMCs (1.5  10
4294362| Gene transfer techniques can be used to encode the production of a polypeptide product, such as human growth hormone (hGH), that is missing in an acquired or inherited disease state such as growth hormone deficiency. In one model system, engineered C2C12 myoblasts are injected intramuscularly into a mouse and subsequently secrete hGH into the circulation. In this regard, a gene-expression regulatory system that functions in myoblasts would be of interest. We demonstrate that the Escherichia coli lac operon system can be used to stringently regulate the expression of hGH in engineered C2C12 myoblasts in tissue culture. A DNA segment encoding hGH was linked to a DNA segment containing an SV40 enhancer and promoter. The latter components were positioned between two synthetic lac operators. Lac repressor expression was driven by a simian cytomegalovirus promoter. In transient co-transfection assays, hGH expression from cultured C2C12 myoblasts could be modulated up to 60-fold (P = 0.002) with the inducing agent, isopropyl--D-thiogalactoside (IPTG). In the absence of IPTG, hGH expression was almost fully repressed. These results show that the components of the E. coli lac operon provide a stringent regulatory system for use in myoblasts. The system might prove to be useful for the regulation of transferred genes in animals. 
4295656| Ethanolamine (Etn) stimulates hepatocyte proliferation in vivo and in vitro; however, the physiological function of Etn in hepatocytes has yet to be elucidated. In the present study, we examined the effect of Etn using a primary culture of rat hepatocytes. The level of membrane phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) significantly decreased when the hepatocytes were cultured without Etn but increased to the level found in the liver when the culture medium was supplemented with 20-50 M Etn. Moreover, Etn stimulated DNA synthesis in a dose-dependent manner and had a synergistic effect with epidermal growth factor (EGF). A binding assay and Western blotting showed that the number of EGF receptors was 22-30% lower in cells grown in the absence of Etn compared to those grown in its presence, but the respective Kd values were almost the same. Furthermore, tyrosine phosphorylation of the EGF receptor was significantly lower in cells grown without Etn. Phosphatidylcholine (PC) synthesis in the liver is unique in that it occurs via stepwise methylation of PE. We found that without Etn supplementation, bezafibrate-induced inhibition of PE methylation increased the level of PE by decreasing its conversion to PC and stimulated DNA synthesis. Moreover, the function of EGF in stimulating DNA synthesis was significantly enhanced under Etn-sufficient conditions. These data suggest that Etn is a nutritional factor required for synthesis of adequate PE, levels of which are important for hepatocyte proliferation. 
23279362|Animal cloning using somatic cell nuclear transfer technology has renewed the interest in postmortem tissue storage, since these tissues can be used to reintroduce the lost genes back into the breeding pool in animal agriculture, preserve the genetic diversity, and revive the endangered species. However, for successful cloning of animals, integrity of nuclear DNA is essential. Cell viability and their potential to in vitro culture ensure nuclear integrity. The aim of this study was to determine the limits of postmortem time interval within which live cells can be recovered from goat skin tissues. To test the postmortem tissue storage limits, we cultured 23 mm 2 skin pieces (n = 70) from the ears of three breeds of goats (n = 7) after 0, 2, 4, and 6 days of postmortem storage at 24C. After 10 days of culture, outgrowth of fibroblast-like cells (>50 cells) around the explants was scored. All the explants irrespective of breed displayed outgrowth of cells on the dish containing fresh tissues (i.e., day 0 of storage). However, the number of explants exhibiting outgrowth reduced with increasing time interval. Only 53.85 % explants displayed outgrowth after 2 days of tissue storage. The number of explants displaying outgrowth was much smaller after 4 (16.67 %) and 6 days (13.3 %) of storage. In general, the number of outgrowing cells per explant, on a given day, also decreased with increasing postmortem storage time interval. To test the differences between cell cultures, we established secondary cultures from one of the goats exhibiting outgrowth of cells after 6 days of tissue storage and compared them to similar cells from fresh tissues. Comparison of both the cell lines revealed similar cell morphology and growth curves and had doubling times of 23.04 and 22.56 h, respectively. These results suggest that live cells can be recovered from goat (and perhaps other animal) tissues stored at room temperature even after 6 days of their death with comparable growth profiles and, thus, can be used for tissue banking for preservation of superior genetics, genetic diversity, and cloning of animals.
4295070|Retinoic acid is known to cause the myeloid differentiation and Gl/0 cell cycle arrest of HL-60 cells in a process that requires mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal regulated kinase (MEK)-dependent extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK)2 activation. It has also been shown that ectopic expression of cFMS, a platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-family transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor, enhances retinoic acid-induced differentiation and Gl/0 arrest. The mechanism of how the retinoic acid and cFMS signaling pathways intersect is not known. The present data show that the ectopic expression of cFMS results in the differential loss of sensitivity of retinoic acid-induced differentiation or Gl/0 arrest to inhibition of ERK2 activation. PD98059 was used to inhibit MEK and consequently ERK2. In wild-type HL-60 cells, PD98059 blocked retinoic acid-induced differentiation; but in cFMS stable transfectants, PD98059 only attenuated the induced differentiation, with the resulting response resembling that of retinoic acid-treated wild-type HL-60. In wild-type HL-60, PD98059 greatly attenuated the retinoic acid-induced G1/0 arrest allied with retinoblastoma (RB) hypophosphorylation; but in cFMS stable transfectants, PD98059 had no inhibitory effect on RB hypophosphorylation and G1/0 arrest. This differential sensitivity to PD98059 and uncoupling of retinoic acid-induced differentiation and G1/0 arrest in cFMS transfectants is associated with changes in mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling molecules. The cFMS transfectants had more activated ERK2 than did the wild-type cells, which surprisingly was not attributable to enhanced mitogen-activated protein-kinase-kinase-kinase (RAF) phosphorylation. Retinoic acid increased the amount of activated ERK2 and phosphorylated RAF in both cell lines. But PD98059 eliminated detectable ERK2 activation, as well as inhibited RAF phosphorylation, in untreated and retinoic acid-treated wild-type HL-60 and cFMS transfectants, consistent with MEK or ERK feedback-regulation of RAF, in all four cases. Since PD98059 blocks the cFMS-conferred enhancement of the retinoic acid-induced differentiation, but not growth arrest, the data indicate that cFMS-enhanced differentiation acts primarily through MEK and ERK2, but cFMS-enhanced Gl/0 arrest allied with RB hypophosphorylation depends on another cFMS signal route, which by itself can effect G1/0 arrest without activated ERK2. Ectopic expression of cFMS and differential sensitivity to ERK2 inhibition thus reveal that retinoic acid-induced HL-60 cell differentiation and G1/0 arrest are differentially dependent on ERK2 and can be uncoupled. A significant unanticipated finding was that retinoic acid caused a MEK-dependent increase in the amount of phosphorylated RAF. This increase may help sustain prolonged ERK2 activation.
4294179|Hepatocyte culture may represent an alternative to the use of animals to study drug detoxification by the liver. An ideal in vitro system should closely mimic the in vivo environment by providing continuous media perfusion and oxygenation, and should facilitate sampling of cells and culture media. To meet these criteria, a hollow fiber bioreactor seeded with isolated rat hepatocytes was developed and tested by measuring the formation of three products of the oxidative metabolism of diazepam and the glucuronidation of phenolsulfonphthalein (PSP). To compare the performance of conventional monolayer culture to that of the bioreactor system, diazepam metabolism was studied for 45 days in both systems. The oxygen dependency of diazepam metabolism was evaluated by perfusing the bioreactor in an oxygen-rich atmosphere (30%). Total diazepam metabolism was twofold higher in the
20172159|A major factor in cellular cytotoxicity is the interaction between LFA-1 on leukocytes and ICAM-1 on targets. Because several inflammatory cartilage diseases are characterized by the presence of leukocyte infiltrates, the expression of ICAM-1 on human cartilage, cultured chondrocytes, and transplanted cartilage was investigated using monoclonal antibodies. Frozen tissue sections, chondrocytes in suspension, as well as total cellular mRNA were prepared from human cartilage samples. ICAM-1 expression was studied with two different monoclonal antibodies directed against ICAM-1 by immunohistochemical APAAP-staining and additional flow cytometric analyses. The expression of ICAM-1-mRNA in cartilage tissue was analyzed using the northern blot hybridization technique. Furthermore, chondrocytes were treated in culture with interleukin-1 (IL-1) and gamma-interferon (gamma-IFN). ICAM-1 expression after culture was quantified using flow cytometric analysis. We could detect ICAM-1 mRNA in cartilage tissue, however, the immunostaining of tissue sections using monoclonal antibodies did not give clear positive reactions. Isolated chondrocytes showed strongly positive staining patterns in comparison with adequate negative controls as assessed by flow cytometry. A dose-dependent increase of the expression of ICAM-1 on chondrocytes was observed when stimulated with IL-1 and gamma-IFN. Finally, two of the three studied transplanted autologous cartilage samples with advanced resorption showed the presence of ICAM-1 molecules as assessed by immunohistochemistry. This expression of ICAM-1 suggests that the molecule plays a role in severe cartilage inflammatory processes, where tissue damage leads to the exposure of chondrocyte surfaces.
4295108|In order to understand how cancer cells accumulate, rat hepatoma ARL-6 cells were cultured for 8 d to identify factors involved in spontaneous cell proliferation and apoptosis. With increasing time in culture, the proportion of cells in the proliferative phases of the cell cycle and the rate of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis decreased. The waning of proliferation was associated with a gradual reduction of cell viability, and this was temporally related to the appearance of typical apoptotic morphology and DNA laddering. Medium replacement or supplementation with fetal calf serum (FCS) suppressed apoptosis, while medium change, but not fetal calf serum alone, enhanced cell proliferation. Apoptosis was also suppressed by dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), but supplementary glutathione was without effect. Expression of poly(adenosine diphosphate[ADP]-ribose)polymerase peaked on days 3-4 of culture, and was followed by a progressive decrease thereafter, consistent with proteolytic cleavage. This decrease was prevented to varying extents by complete medium replacement, FCS and DMSO, indicating a close temporal relationship between poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase activation and apoptosis. Expression of Fas and Bcl-2 did not change appreciably over the 8-d culture, but there was a gradual increase in Bax expression; medium change, FCS and DMSO all partly inhibited Bax expression. These data indicate that spontaneous apoptosis in cultured ARL-6 cells is inversely related to cell proliferation, and that nutrient supply, and to a lesser extent, serum-derived factors and oxidative stress modulate apoptosis in this system. Proteolytic cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase and expression of Bax are likely to be mechanistically involved with the control of spontaneous apoptosis in ARL-6 cells, whereas changes in the levels of Fas and Bcl-2 do not play a role.
23481787|Macrophages develop into specialized cell types with special functional properties, depending on locally produced stimuli. Adipose tissue macrophages present particular characteristics, such as the M2 cell phenotype, and produce cytokines and chemokines usually produced by M1 cells. Our aim was to study the role of leptin, which is an adipokine produced and released by adipocytes, in the induction of these characteristics in macrophages found in the adipose tissue. Human CD14 + cells were obtained and maintained in culture with IFN- (classical M1 phenotype), IL-4 (alternative M2 phenotype) or leptin for 5 d. Surface marker expression was then analyzed by cytometry. In addition, the release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1, IL-10, IL-1ra, MCP-1, MIP-1, and RANTES was quantified by ELISA after an LPS stimulus, in the culture supernatant. Macrophages exposed to leptin in culture expressed surface markers that were more similar to the M2 phenotype, but they were able to produce TNF-, IL-6, IL-1, IL-1ra, IL-10, MCP-1, and MIP-1, as observed for M1 cells. Results suggest that leptin strongly contributes to the phenotype observed in macrophages found in adipose tissue.
20172155|Continuously replicating cell lines have been established from embryonic tissue and circulating hemolymph cells of the melolonthine Antitrogus parvulus Britton. Isozyme analyses demonstrated that cell lines from both tissue sources expressed essentially the same isoforms of enzymes as A. parvulus larvae and thus confirmed the species of their origin. Karyotype analyses showed that cells from both tissue sources had accumulated changes in chromosome number and morphology during culture. Availability of melolonthine-derived cells should assist in vitro studies of the pathogens of this important group of beetles.
4295270|Lymphocyte interactions with endothelial cells in microcirculation are an important regulatory step in the delivery of lymphocytes to peripheral sites of inflammation. In normal circumstances, the predicted wall shear stress in small venules range from
4295609|Four continuous cell lines were established from the embryos of the glassy-winged sharpshooter, Homalodisca coagulata (Say), an economically important insect vector of bacterial pathogens of grape, almond, citrus, oleander, and other agricultural and ornamental plantings. The cell lines were designated GWSS-Z10, GWSS-Z15, GWSS-G3, and GWSS-LH. The GWSS-Z10, GWSS-Z15, and GWSS-G3 lines were cultured in Ex-Cell 401 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), whereas the GWSS-LH line was cultured in LH medium supplemented with 20% FBS. The cell lines were characterized in terms of their morphology, growth, protein composition, and polymerase chain reaction-amplification patterns of their chromosomal deoxyribonucleic acid. The population doubling times of GWSS-Z10, GWSS-Z15, GWSS-G3, and GWSS-LH were 46.2, 90.9, 100.3, and 60.2 h, respectively. These lines should be useful for the study of insect-pathogenic viruses of leafhoppers, aphids, treehoppers, and other related insects as well as plant-pathogenic viruses that are transmitted by these insects.
4294129|In the avian embryo, vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) in the aortic arch (elastic) arteries originate in the neural crest, whereas other VSMC develop from local mesoderm. These two lineages have been shown previously to be significantly different in the timing and expression of the smooth muscle phenotype and in their respective abilities to produce an orderly elastic matrix. Two differing kinds of VSMC also have been shown in mammals. In the experimental absence of neural crest (NC) in the avian embryo, the matrix is spatially disordered. The molecular basis of the difference between the normal NC-VSMC and the surrogate mesodermal (MDM)-VSMC has not previously been investigated. In this study the expression of vascular smooth muscle alpha-actin, tropoelastin, c-fos and c-jun were examined via immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, Northern blot, and/or transcription run-on assays. Control avian VSMC of NC origin were compared with experimental MDM-derived VSMC that populate the cardiac outflow after surgical ablation of the NC. The results show that, when they are grown under identical conditions in vitro or freshly removed from an embryonic vessel, surrogate MDM-VSMC express about 10 times more alpha-actin and tropoelastin than the normal NC-VSMC; and MDM-VSMC express up to 15 times more c-jun, whereas c-fos was not different. These results show profound heterogeneity in the regulation of VSMC-specific genes that is based in the embryonic lineage of the cells.
4294922|ECC-1, an established epithelial cell line derived from an adenocarcinoma of human endometrial lining, was examined for growth optimization, steroid hormone receptor- and Ah receptor content, and dioxin modulation of estrogen receptor function. Proliferation of ECC-1 cells was accelerated by growth on a lethally irradiated feeder layer of murine 3T3 fibroblasts. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated the presence of Ah receptor, an intracellular protein that binds and regulates the toxic action of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). The Ah receptor was functional in these cells as assessed by concentration and kinetic patterns of CYP1A1 -mediated 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase (ECOD) induction. The half-maximal effective concentration (EC
4295209|Immortalized human hepatocytes that can retain functions of drug-metabolizing enzymes would be useful for medical and pharmacological studies and for constructing an artificial liver. The aim of this study was to establish immortalized human hepatocyte lines having differentiated liver-specific functions. pSVneo deoxyribonucleic acid, which contains large and small T genes in the early region of simian virus 40, was introduced into hepatocytes that had been obtained from the liver of a 21-wk-old fetus. Neomycin-resistant immortalized colonies were cloned and expanded to mass cultures to examine hepatic functions. Cells were cultured in a chemically defined serum-free medium, ASF104, which contains no peptides other than recombinant human transferrin and insulin. As a result, an immortal human hepatocyte cell line (OUMS-29) having liver-specific functions was established from one of the 13 clones. Expression of CYP 1A1 and 1A2 messenger ribonucleic acid by the cells was induced by treatment with benz[a]pyrene, 3-methylcholanthrene, and benz[a]anthracene. OUMS-29 cells had both the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and AhR nuclear translocator. Consequently, 7-ethoxyresorufin deethylase activity of the cells was induced time- and dose-dependently by these polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. This cell line is expected to be instrumental as an alternative method in animal experiments for studying hepatocarcinogenesis, drug metabolisms of liver cells, and hepatic toxicology.
4294117|Primary adult rat hepatocytes were cultured in serum-free L15 medium supplemented with 20 mM NaHCO
4294031| A method for the isolation and long-term culture of human microvessel endothelial cells from mammary adipose tissue (HuMMEC) obtained at breast reduction surgery has been developed. Pure cultures of HuMMEC were isolated by sequential digestion of the fat with collagenase and trypsin followed by specific selection of microvessel fragments with Ulex europaeus agglutinin-1 coated magnetic beads (Dynabeads). The resulting cells formed contact-inhibited monolayers on gelatin and fibronectin substrates and capillary-like "tubes" on Matrigel; they also expressed von Willebrand factor, angiotensin-converting enzyme, and accumulated acetylated low density lipoprotein. Further immunofluorescence characterization revealed the presence of antigens for the endothelial cell specific monoclonal antibodies EN4 and H4-7/33. In addition, the origin of these cells was confirmed by the demonstration of the cell adhesion molecules, platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (CD31), and endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1/E-selectin) upon stimulation with tumor necrosis factor (TNF). HuMMEC were found to express-1 ELAM-1 at lower levels of TNF (<10 ng/ml) than required by human umbilical vein endothelial cells. These cells should provide a useful in vitro model for studying various aspects of microvascular biology and pathology. 
4295223|The number of insect midgut cells is maintained homeostatically in vivo and in vitro. However, during starvation, the midgut shrinks and the rate of cell replacement appears to be suppressed. When they undergo metamorphosis, the internal organs of insects are drastically remodeled by cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptotic processes, and the net number of cells usually increases. An extract of 1650 midguts of Periplaneta americana was fractionated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to obtain the peptides that regulate these processes. The HPLC fractions were tested for myotropic activity in the foregut and for effects on cell proliferation or loss in primary cultures of larval Heliothis virescens midgut cells and in a cell line derived from the last-instar larval fat body of Mamestra brassicae. Some fractions stimulated midgut stem cell proliferation and differentiation, while others caused loss of differentiated columnar and goblet cells. Other fractions stimulated cell proliferation in the larval fat body cells.
40205771|Coronary vascular disease is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity in the United States. Therefore, a mechanistic understanding of coronary vessel morphogenesis would aid in the innovation of new therapies targeting vascular disorders. Moreover, a functionally equivalent in vitro model system allows for the delineation of the molecular mechanisms that regulate coronary vessel development. In this study, we present a novel in vitro model system. This three-dimensional (3-D) model system consists of a tubular scaffold, which is engineered from type-I collagen and has been optimized to support the growth of embryonic cardiac tissues. In this report, proepicardial (PE) cells, the developmental precursors of coronary vessels, have been isolated from several model species and cultured on this scaffold. In this model system, the PE cells were able to recapitulate several aspects of coronary vessel morphogenesis including epicardial formation, the epicardial to mesenchymal transformation, and de novo coronary vessel development or vasculogenesis. The differentiation of PE cells was characterized using a variety of specific protein markers. The potential uses of this novel coronary developmental model are discussed.
4295213|The baculovirus P35 protein is a caspase inhibitor that prevents the induction of apoptosis during infection of Sf21 cells by Autographa californica multicapsid nucleopolyhedrovirus (AcMNPV). P35 inhibits the induction of apoptosis in a broad range of cells and circumstances. In this study, we examined the effects of constitutive cellular P35 expression on the response of cells to stressful culture conditions and on protein production in AcMNPV infected cells. Sf9 cell lines expressing AcMNPV P35 or an epitope-tagged P35 protein were generated using a double selection technique, involving selection in the antibiotic G418, followed by a second round of selection by exposure to actinomycin D, a potent inducer of apoptosis in Sf9 cells. Clonal cell lines were generated and examined for (1) resistance to actinomycin D induced apoptosis, (2) resistance to nutrient deprivation, and (3) baculovirus expression of intracellular and secreted proteins. When compared with Sf9 cells, two P35-expressing cell lines (
4294525|A model system has been developed to investigate cell deformation of chondrocytes in vitro. Chondrocytes were isolated from bovine articular cartilage by enzymatic digestion and seeded in agarose (type VII) at a final concentration of
20869562|Two-pore domain K channels are widely expressed in many types of cells, and have various important functions, especially maintaining the resting membrane potential. In the previous report, we have confirmed the presence of several kinds of two-pore domain K channels in the periodontal ligament (PDL) fibroblasts. It is well known that dexamethasone (Dex) regulates the functions of various kinds of ion channels. In this work, we investigate if Dex affects the gene expressions of the two-pore domain K channels in the PDL fibroblasts. We also examined the effects of other steroid hormones on the K channels gene expression. The mRNA levels of two-pore domain K channels in human PDL fibroblasts were examined in the presence or absence of Dex by RT-PCR. The effects of other steroid hormones (aldosterone, estrogen, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25-(OH)D], and retinoic acid) were also examined. Dex significantly induced the expression of TASK-1 and TWIK-2 in mRNA levels in both a dose- and a time-dependent manner. The stimulatory effects of Dex were completely abolished by a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist. 1,25-(OH)D also increased the TASK-1 mRNA levels but had no effect on TWIK-2 expression. Dex, one of the potent glucocorticoid, probably have a protective role against external stimuli by maintaining the membrane potential of PDL fibroblasts through the up-regulation of TASK-1 and TWIK-2 K channels.
4295376|The role of the adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette (ABC) superfamily of membrane transporters is well documented in tumor cell multidrug resistance. More recently, growing evidence of their influence on oral bioavailability, drug excretion rates, and drug-drug interaction potential at the intestinal level has stimulated much investigation. Our laboratory is interested in evaluating the apical (AP) ABC transporter P-glycoprotein (Pgp [mdr-1]) for its role in xenobiotic efflux at the intestinal level. We propagated Caco-2 cells in the presence of vinblastine (a cytotoxic, Pgp substrate) to promote transporter expression though selection. That is, the cell population expressing Pgp, or with the capacity to upregulate Pgp expression, survived and expanded in the presence of vinblastine. We have used this selected cell line (Caco-2 VinB) to develop a fluorescent-based assay to study the chemical modulators of Pgp activity. Using the Caco-2 VinB cells, we have successfully demonstrated the differential potency of previously characterized Pgp inhibitors. In addition, we conducted a morphological evaluation of the two cell lines using transmission, scanning, and confocal microscopy. Both cell strains differentiated into highly functional, polarized columnar epithelium, although the vinblastine-selected cell line had lost the phenotypic diversity observed in native Caco-2 populations. Increased Pgp expression was noted in Caco-2 VinB cells compared with the native cell line on Western blot analysis, which was localized to the AP surface using confocal microscopy and functionally demonstrated using transport assays. We believe that the Caco2 VinB cell line is a versatile tool for application in pharmaceutical drug development.
23279454|The future for a sustainable aquaculture relies on the formulation of feed including alternatives to fish meal and fish oil that do not impair fish growth and that improve fish health status. Grain legumes such as field peas and chickpeas offer good sources of proteins, carbohydrates, fibers, vitamins, and minerals. The effect of peas and chickpeas on the immune system of seabream was assessed in vitro in order to detect any potential immunosuppressing problem. Peas was determined to be a better fishmeal alternative than chickpeas as they induced higher respiratory burst measured by the nitro blue tetrazolium assay and primed the Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-stimulated intracellular respiratory burst whereas chickpeas neither directly stimulated respiratory burst nor primed it. However, when the intra- and extracellular respiratory burst activities were taken into account, high concentrations of peas inhibited the zymosan- and PMA-triggered chemiluminescence. This apparent reduction of the production of reactive oxygen species may reflect in fact the antioxidant activity of legumes. This, together with the absence of effect on the phagocytosis activity, suggested that peas are not immunosuppressing gilthead seabream. Further in vivo studies preferably comporting a bacterial challenge will have to ascertain the absence of immunosuppressing effect of these legumes.
40205858|The effect of Bombyx mori nuclear polyhedrosis virus (BmNPV) on biochemical changes of TC-100 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) in embryonic primary cultures of silkworm was investigated. The primary cultures that reached 60% confluence were infected by 0.5, 1, and 2-ml viral inoculums (diluted with TC-100 medium representing multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 0.25, 0.5, and 1). Glucose, uric acid, urea, total protein, cholesterol, and alkaline phosphatase were measured in the medium of BmNPV-infected primary cultures. All biochemical compounds showed significant changes. Glucose decreased considerably by about 55 mg/ml, while different concentrations of the virus inoculums did not demonstrate significant differences among them. Total protein had only increased in 2 ml concentration and there were no changes in other concentrations. Uric acid as a by-product accumulated dramatically in all concentrations, while the amount of urea reduced in all treatments and this reduction was more evident in lower concentrations. Cholesterol consumption was high in cultures postinfection, while alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity decreased in infected cells.
4294603|In vitro characteristics of cardiac cells cultured in simulated microgravity are reported. Tissue culture methods performed at unit gravity constrain cells to propagate, differentiate, and interact in a two-dimensional (2D) plane. Neonatal rat cardiac cells in 2D culture organize predominantly as bundles of cardiomyocytes with the intervening areas filled by nonmyocyte cell types. Such cardiac cell cultures respond predictably to the addition of exogenous compounds, and in many ways they represent an excellent in vitro model system. The gravity-induced 2D organization of the cells, however, does not accurately reflect the distribution of cells in the intact tissue. We have begun characterizations of a three-dimensional (3D) culturing system designed to mimic microgravity. The NASA-designed High-Aspect Ratio Vessel (HARV) bioreactors provide a low shear environment that allows cells to be cultured in static suspension. HARV-3D cultures were prepared on microcarrier beads and compared to control-2D cultures using a combination of microscopic and biochemical techniques. Both systems were uniformly inoculated and medium exchanged at standard intervals. Cells in control cultures adhered to the polystyrene surface of the tissue culture dishes and exhibited typical 2D organization. Cells cultured in HARVs adhered to microcarrier beads, the beads aggregated into defined clusters containing 8 to 15 beads per cluster, and the clusters exhibited distinct 3D layers: myocytes and fibroblasts appeared attached to the surfaces of beads and were overlaid by an outer cell type. In addition, cultures prepared in HARVs using alternative support matrices also displayed morphological formations not seen in control cultures. Generally, the cells prepared in HARV and control cultures were similar; however, the dramatic alterations in 3D organization recommend the HARV as an ideal vessel for the generation of tissuelike organizations of cardiac cells in vitro.
4294798|Six human glioma cell lines were established from tissues obtained from five patients diagnosed with Kernohan grade IV glioblastoma multiforme and one from a patient with a grade II astrocytoma. One line was from a recurrent patient who had received prior therapy; the other lines were derived from patients at initial diagnosis and/or before cytoreductive therapies other than surgery were given. Considerable variability in phenotypic, karyotypic, and cell surface marker expression was displayed between the six human glioma cell lines. The karyotypes ranged from apparently normal (grade II astrocytoma) to those with complex rearrangements. Trisomy of chromosome 7 was the most common abnormality. The extensive cytogenetic and molecular characterization of these lines may facilitate their utilization in cellular and molecular biologic studies.
4295484|We investigated the effects of 6- and 10-T static magnetic fields (SMFs) on the expression of protooncogenes using Western blot immunohybridization methods. We used a SMF exposure system, which can expose cells to a spatially inhomogeneous 6 T with a strong magnetic field (MF) gradient (41.7 T/m) and a spatially homogeneous 10 T of the highest magnetic flux density in this experiment. HL-60 cells exposed to either 6- or 10-T SMF for periods of 1 to 48 h did not exhibit remarkable differences in levels of c-Myc and c-Fos protein expression, as compared with sham-exposed cells. In contrast, c-Jun protein expression increased in HL-60 cells after exposure to 6-T SMF for 24, 36, 48, and 72 h. These results suggest that a homogeneous 10-T SMF does not alter the expression of the c-jun, c-fos, and c-myc protooncogenes. However, our observation that exposure to a strong MF gradient induced c-Jun expression suggests that a strong MF gradient may have significant biological effects, particularly regarding processes related to an elevation of c-jun gene expression.
40602792|One of the main obstacles for understanding biological events involved in cancer is the lack of experimental models for in vitro studies especially for prostate cancer (PC). There are a limited number of PC cell lines being the majority originated from metastatic tumors mostly acquired from American Tissue Cell Culture which demands importation an expensive and bureaucratic process. Also it is well known that there are ethnic differences between populations concerning the behavior of tumors and the research based on cell lines derived from Brazilians should be interesting. Our aim was to develop tumor cell lines from primary PC.
4294377|A variety of methods exist for the immortalization of B lymphocytes by Epstein-Barr virus due to the simplicity of such techniques to establish cell lines with stable genomic DNA. Two different methods for immortalizing lymphoblastoid cell lines were compared for differences in techniques and materials, time between initiation and immortalization, and success rate of immortalization. An incubation period in Epstein-Barr virus and the use of conditioned media improved immortalization efficiency from 86 to 98% and decreased the time (usually weeks) from culture initiation to cryopreservation. The resulting cell bank was used to produce DNA for genetic studies focusing on the genes involved in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
4294078|Pig epiblast cells that had been separated from other early embryonic cells were cultured in vitro. A three-step dissection protocol was used to isolate the epiblast from trophectoderm and primitive endoderm before culturing. Blastocysts collected at 7 to 8 days postestrus were immunodissected to obtain the inner cell mass (ICM) and destroy trophectodermal cells. The ICM was cultured for 2 to 3 days on STO feeder cells. The epiblast was then physically dissected free of associated primitive endoderm. Epiblast-derived cells, grown on STO feeders, produced colonies of small cells resembling mouse embryonic stem cells. This primary cell morphology changed as the colonies grew and evolved into three distinct colony types (endodermlike, neural rosette, or complex). Cell cultures derived from these three colony types spontaneously differentiated into numerous specialized cell types in STO co-culture. These included fibroblasts, endodermlike cells, neuronlike cells, pigmented cells, adipogenic cells, contracting muscle cells, dome-forming epithelium, ciliated epithelium, tubule-forming epithelium, and a round amoeboid cell type resembling a plasmacyte after Wright staining. The neuronlike cells, contracting muscle cells, and tubule-forming epithelium had normal karyotypes and displayed finite or undefined life spans upon long-term STO co-culture. The dome-forming epithelium had an indefinite life span in STO co-culture and also retained a normal karyotype. These results demonstrate the in vitro pluripotency of pig epiblast cells and indicate the epiblast can be a source for deriving various specialized cell cultures or cell lines.
4295666|We have developed a simple method for rapid detection of mycoplasma contamination in cell cultures using SYBR Green-based real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). To detect eight common contaminant mollicutes, including Mycoplasma (M. arginini, M. fermentans, M. orale, M. hyorhinis, M. hominis, M. salivarium, M. pirum) and Acholeplasma laidlawii, four primers were prepared based on the 23S rRNA regions. Using these primers and a minimum of 100 fg of mycoplasma genomic DNA, the 23S rRNA regions of these eight mycoplasma species were consistently amplified by real-time PCR. In contrast, no specific amplification product was observed using DNA templates prepared from various mammalian cell lines. Frozen and cultured samples of several cell lines were tested for mycoplasma contamination to evaluate the utility of this method. Of 25 samples that tested positive for mycoplasma by Hoechst staining, which requires two passages of cell cultures started from frozen samples, mycoplasma was detected by real-time PCR in 24 samples of cell extracts prepared directly from frozen samples. When cultured samples were used for this assay, the accuracy of the diagnoses was further improved. Thus, this technique, which is simple, rapid, and sensitive enough for practical application, is suitable for handling many samples and for routine screening for mycoplasma contamination of cell cultures.
40205802|In vitro cell culture models have been proposed to analyze some of the complex structural and functional characteristics involved in astroglial changes after neural injury in vivo. This report contributes to analyze the proposed hypothesis that an experimentally induced discontinuity of a confluent cellular culture could represent a useful model for the analysis of the processes involved in a neural lesion. For this purpose, it was decided to characterize astroglial proliferation and dye coupling state after a "scratch wound" applied to confluent, astrocyte-enriched cell cultures, obtained from several rat brain regions. Proliferation was assessed in terms of bromodeoxyuridine nuclear incorporation as a function of lesion width, serum deprivation, time after confluence, brain region origin, postlesional culture medium changes and agitation, and after application of a gap-junction uncoupling agent. The proliferative reaction after injury was neither cell typespecific nor brain region specific, nor was significantly affected by neither of the above-mentioned variables. Furthermore, injury failed to significantly affect the astroglial dye coupling state. Results suggest that the proliferative response observed under present conditions would depend on the disruption of contact inhibition rather than on astroglial mitogenic signals released from the wound and operating by either extracellular or cell coupling mechanisms. Present results question the validity of astrocyte-enriched cell cultures as an experimental model of neural tissue injury in vivo, as they do not appear to reproduce fundamental characteristics expressed in situ.
4295438|The bladder is a physically active organ that undergoes periodic stretching as a part of its normal function. To determine the role that stretching or mechanical deformation may play in altering the synthetic phenotype of bladder wall cells, a series of experiments were carried out to quantify several extracellular matrix (ECM) messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) and their corresponding protein levels after mechanical challenge. Bladder smooth muscle cells were grown on distensible membranes in an apparatus that can reliably and reproducibly subject cells to well-characterized periods of mechanical stretching. For this study, cultured bovine bladder cells were subjected to cyclic mechanical deformation of varying frequencies to determine if this variable altered ECM expression. Using this experimental system, we demonstrated that smooth muscle cells were acutely sensitive to mechanical deformation and showed alteration in the synthesis of the major fibrillar collagens, types I and III. Concomitant analyses of mRNA in these cells show that levels of type I collagen correlate with mRNA levels at all frequencies except at 60 cycles/min, and, thus, type I production appears to be transcriptionally regulated. Interestingly, type III protein levels do not correlate with mRNA measurements except at 20 cycles/min, and, therefore, a different regulatory mechanism likely governs type III production. These studies demonstrate that smooth muscle cell ECM secretory phenotype can be altered by the frequency of mechanical deformation experienced by the cells. These data support the concept that stretching of the bladder wall affects the secretory phenotype of smooth muscle cells and can result in an altered ECM composition.
4295210|We examined the effect of mechanical fluid flow and surfactant on macrophage aggregation as the indication of macrophage activation. Mechanical fluid flow enhanced aggregation in phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-treated human myeloid leukemic cell lines (HL-60 cells), but had no effect on differentiation of PMA-treated HL-60 cells. Surfactant-TA (an artificial surfactant) inhibited fluid flow-induced aggregation, but had no effect on differentiation of PMA-treated HL-60 cells. Human alveolar macrophages spontaneously formed small aggregates without stimulation. This aggregation was enhanced by fluid flow and inhibited by surfactant-TA. Taken together, these data suggest that macrophage activation is affected by fluid flow and surfactants.
40205790|We have recently reported the induction of dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) into dentin-secreting odontoblastlike cells after stimulation by isolated dentin matrix components, thus mimicking the nature of tissue regeneration seen after tooth disease and injury. After confluency, the cells were further cultured for 21 d in the 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) (control), and in this medium, with the addition of dentin extract (DE) and the mineralization supplement (MS) of ascorbic acid and -glycerophosphate (treatment). To identify genes associated with this process, specimens were analyzed with a HG-U133A human gene chip and Arrayassist software. A total of 425 genes, among them 21 matrix and eight TGF--related genes, were either up-or downregulated in the experimental group in which the cells showed odontoblast-like differentiation and mineralization. Expression of selected genes was further confirmed by realtime polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. Of the extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes, two types of collagen genes were upregulated and seven others downregulated. Other ECM-related genes, for example fibulin-1, tenascin C, and particularly thrombospondin 1, were upregulated, and fibulin-2 was downregulated. Most noticeably, the matrix metalloproteinase 1 was induced by the treatment. In the TGF- superfamily, upregulation of the type II receptor, endoglin, and growth/differentiation factor 5 was coordinated with the downregulation of activin A, TGF-2, and TGF-1 itself. This study identifies the matrix and TGF--related gene profiles during the DPSC cell mineralization in which several genes are reported for the first time to be associated with this process, thus greatly expanding our molecular knowledge of the induced disease repair process.
20616593|Hedgehog (Hh) signaling plays a role in heart morphogenesis and can initiate cardiomyogenesis in P19 cells. To determine if Hh signaling is essential for P19 cell cardiomyogenesis, we determined which Hh factors are expressed and the effect of Hh signal transduction inhibitors. Here, we find that the Hh gene family and their downstream mediators are expressed during cardiomyogenesis but an active Hh signaling pathway is not essential. However, loss of Hh signaling resulted in a delay of BMP-4, GATA-4, Gli2, and Meox1 expression during cardiomyogenesis. By using Noggin-overexpressing P19 cells, we determined that Hh signaling was not active during Noggin-mediated inhibition of cardiomyogenesis. Thus, there is cross talk between the Hh and BMP signaling pathways and the Hh pathway appears important for timely cardiomyogenesis.
4294949| Renal injury is a common side effect of the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide. Current evidence suggests that the ifosfamide metabolite chloroacetaldehyde may contribute to this nephrotoxicity. The present study examined the effects of ifosfamide and chloroacetaldehyde on rabbit proximal renal tubule cells in primary culture. The ability of the uroprotectant medication sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate (mesna) to prevent chloroacetaldehyde-induced renal cell injury was also assessed. Chloroacetaldehyde (12.5-150 M) produced dose-dependent declines in neutral red dye uptake, ATP levels, glutathione content, and cell growth. Coadministration of mesna prevented chloroacetaldehyde toxicity while pretreatment of cells with the glutathione-depleting agent buthionine sulfoximine enhanced the toxicity of chloroacetaldehyde. Ifosfamide (1000-10 000 M) toxicity was detected only at concentrations of 4000 M or greater. Analysis of media collected from ifosfamide-treated cell cultures revealed the presence of several ifosfamide metabolites, demonstrating that renal proximal tubule cells are capable of biotransforming this chemotherapeutic agent. This primary renal cell culture system should prove useful in studying the cause and prevention of ifosfamide nephrotoxicity. 
20869542|The objective of this study was to investigate the role of the RhoA/Rock signaling pathway in the epithelialmesenchymal transition (EMT) of rat peritoneal mesothelial cells (RPMCs). Primary SD rat peritoneal mesothelial cells were cultured in vitro. RPMCs were randomly assigned to four groups: group A (control), group B (TGF-1, 10 g/L), group C (10 g/L TGF-1 + 10 mol/L Y-27632, an inhibitor of Rock that was pre-applied for 2 h before TGF-1 stimulation), and group D (Y-27632 alone, 10 mol/L). Our results were as follows: (1) TGF-1 stimulation elicited a robust increase in RhoA activity in a time-dependent manner; the increase was 2.570.52 times larger than the activity observed for the control group (P<0.05) after 10 min of stimulation. RhoA activity peaked at 1 h and was 4.350.41 times the value observed for the control group (P<0.05). (2) TGF-1 up-regulated mRNA and/or protein expression of -SMA, vimentin, and collagen and down-regulated mRNA and protein expression of E-cadherin in RPMCs. (3) The Rock inhibitor Y-27632 effectively reduced TGF-1-induced expression of -SMA, collagen, and vimentin; the mRNA levels of -SMA and collagen decreased by 53.8% and 55.7%, respectively, and the protein levels of -SMA, vimentin, and collagen decreased by 42.6%, 60.1%, and 58.1%, respectively, as compared to TGF-1-stimulated groups (P<0.05). However, the Rock inhibitor Y-27632 had no effect on the level of E-cadherin. In conclusion, the RhoA/Rock signaling pathway may mediate EMT induced by TGF-1 in rat peritoneal mesothelial cells. The RhoA/Rock pathway may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of peritoneal fibrosis.
20869537|Cardiac hypertrophy is a major risk factor for heart failure and associated patient morbidity and mortality. Research investigating the aberrant molecular processes that occur during cardiac hypertrophy uses primary cardiomyocytes from neonatal rat hearts as the standard experimental in vitro system. In addition, some studies make use of the H9C2 rat cardiomyoblast cell line, which has the advantage of being an animal-free alternative; however, the extent to which H9C2 cells can accurately mimic the hypertrophic responses of primary cardiac myocytes has not yet been fully established. To address this limitation, we have directly compared the hypertrophic responses of H9C2 cells with those of primary rat neonatal cardiomyocytes following stimulation with hypertrophic factors. Primary rat neonatal cardiomyocytes and H9C2 cells were cultured in vitro and treated with angiotensin II and endothelin-1 to promote hypertrophic responses. An increase in cellular footprint combined with rearrangement of cytoskeleton and induction of foetal heart genes were directly compared in both cell types using microscopy and real-time rtPCR. H9C2 cells showed almost identical hypertrophic responses to those observed in primary cardiomyocytes. This finding validates the importance of H9C2 cells as a model for in vitro studies of cardiac hypertrophy and supports current work with human cardiomyocyte cell lines for prospective molecular studies in heart development and disease.
4295692| The transforming growth factor-s (TGF-s) comprise a family of pleiotropic members that signal through two types of serine/threonine kinase receptors, named TGFRI (TGF- type I receptor) and TGFRII (TGF- type II receptor). We previously demonstrated that cortical neurons increase the astrocyte maturation marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and thus, astrocyte differentiation, by inducing TGF-1 secretion by astrocytes in vitro. Although TGF- receptor expression has been described in different brain regions and cell types, their localization is still a subject of discussion. In the present work, we analyzed TGFRII expression in cultured cortical astrocytes from embryonic and newborn animals by immunocytochemistry, Western blot, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We report for the first time expression of TGFRII in embryonic glia. TGFRII immunostaining was punctual and spread throughout the cellular membrane of embryonic and newborn astrocytes. Western blot and RT-PCR assays revealed similar levels of the receptor in astrocytes from different ages. Identification of TGFRII in embryonic astrocytes is novel and might point to the multipotent precursor cell, radial glia, as a potential target for TGF1 during astrocyte development. 
4295027|Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation showed that fully differentiated spherical adipocytes were embraced by a network of collagens and fibroblastic preadipocytes. The properties of both the collagen networks and the preadipocytes allow the adipocytes to be interconnected, forming a fat-cell cluster, which can anchor to the bottom of a culture dish. In this network structure, collagen fibrils and fibrillar bundles were closely arranged and stratified. We found that immunostained collagens appeared to form extracellular network structures, which can be observed by SEM. The extracellular network of fibronectin was the first to develop among the extracellular matrix (ECM) components, though it became degraded with the progress of adipocyte differentiation. The type I collagen network was the last to develop and remained well organized through the late stage of adipocyte differentiation. The extracellular networks of type III, V, and VI collagen developed by the mid-stage and remained in the late stage of adipocyte differentiation. The network structures of type IV collagen and laminin became degraded during the differentiation process and localized at the surface of spherical cells. In addition to these basement membrane components, types III, V, and VI collagens also showed pericellular spherical staining patterns. These results demonstrated that the constitution and distribution of the ECM are altered during adipocyte differentiation, suggesting that the organization of each ECM component into a suitable structure is a requirement for the differentiation and maintenance of unilocular adipocytes.
4294046|Human non-autocrine neuroblastoma cells SK-N-SH and LF require serum for proliferation in vitro. We wished to determine the role of serum-borne insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) as mitogen for these cells. Introduction of the monoclonal antibody
4294491| To study mechanisms controlling growth and phenotype in human vascular smooth muscle cells, we established culture conditions under which these cells proliferate rapidly and achieve life-spans of 50-60 population doublings. In medium containing heparin and heparin-binding growth factors, growth rate and life-span of human vascular smooth muscle cells increased more than 50% relative to cultures with neither supplement, and more than 20% compared to cultures supplemented only with heparin-binding growth factors. In contrast to observations made in rat vascular smooth muscle cells, smooth muscle-specific -actin in the human cells was expressed only in the presence of heparin and colocalized with / nonmuscle actins in stress fibers, not in adhesion plaques. Heparin, in the presence of heparin-binding growth factors, also caused more than 170% stimulation of tracer glucosamine incorporation into hyaluronic acid and a 7.5-fold increase in hyaluronic acid accumulation. In comparison, total sulfate incorporation into sulfated glycosaminoglycans increased by less than 40%. In light of our previous findings that heparin suppresses collagen gene expression, we conclude that heparin induces human vascular smooth muscle cells exposed to heparin-binding growth factors to remodel their extracellular matrix by altering the relative rates of hyaluronic acid (HA) and collagen synthesis. The resulting hyaluronic-acid-rich, collagenpoor matrix may enhance infiltration of CD44/hyaluronate-receptor-bearing T-lymphocytes and monocytes into the vascular wall, an early event in atherogenesis. 
24596462|Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) were reported to form floating aggregation of cells with expression of nestin, a marker for neural stem cells (NSCs). The purpose of this investigation is to evaluate the morphology and the molecular markers expressed by NSCs derived from these neurospheres. The BMSCs were isolated from Sprague Dawley rats and evaluated for osteogenesis, lipogenesis, and expression of fibronectin, CD90, CD106, CD31, and Oct4. The BMSCs were cultured with Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)/F12 containing 15% fetal bovine serum, then with DMEM/F12 containing 2% B27, basic fibroblast growth factor, and epidermal growth factor. The cell aggregates or spheres were stained with acridine orange, which showed that the neurospheres comprised aggregated cells at either premitotic/postsynthetic (PS), postmitotic/presynthetic (PM) phases of cell cycle, or a mixture of both. The NSCs harvested from the neurospheres were polar with eccentric nucleus, and at either a PS or a PM cell cycle phases, some cells at the latter phase tended to form rosette-like structures. The cells were immunostained for molecular markers such as nestin, neurofilament 68 (NF68), NF160, and NF200 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Myelin basic protein (MBP), the pluripotency (Oct4, Nanog, and SOX2), and the differentiation genes (NeuroD1, Tubb4, and Musashi I) were also evaluated using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Nestin, NF68, NF160, NF200, GFAP, 04, and N-cadherin were expressed in the NSCs. The percentage of immunoreactive cells to nestin was significantly higher than that of the other neuronal markers. MBP was not expressed in BMSCs, neurospheres, and NSCs. The neurospheres were immunoreactive to GFAP. RT-PCR showed the expression of NeuroD1 and Musashi I. The pluripotency gene (SOX2) was expressed in NSCs. Oct4 and Nanog were expressed in BMSCs, while Oct4 and SOX2 were expressed in the neurosphere. This indicates that a pluripotency regularity network existed during the transdifferentiation of BMSCs into NSCs. Image processing of the neurospheres showed that the cells tended to form radial patterns. The conclusion of this study is that the NSCs generated from the BMSC-derived neurospheres have the morphology and the characteristics of neuroepithelial cells with tendency to forming rosette-like structures.
20172236| Exogenously added Mycobacterium tuberculosis Hsp10, either synthetic or recombinant, but not other related heat shock proteins (GroES from Escherichia coli or bovine Ubiquitin), increases apoptosis in serum-deprived P19 mouse teratocarcinoma cells. The effect is dose-dependent, with a bell-shaped curve and peak activity at 10 M (maximal effect: 62.9  17.7% increase, mean  SD, n = 10) and is specifically inhibited by a polyclonal antibody raised against the synthetic protein. On the other hand, when the same cells are exponentially growing, M. tuberculosis Hsp10 increases cell proliferation with a bell-shaped dose-response curve and a moderate decrease in potency (peak-activity at 10-10 M, with a 43.7  8.1% increase, mean  SD, n = 3). Therefore, it appears that this bacterial protein can exert two opposite effects, behaving either as a death- or as a growth-promoting factor, depending on the conditions of the target. 
40205834|A photoreceptor cell line, designated 661W, was tested for its response to growth factors secreted by retinal pigment epithelial cells including basic fibroblast growth factor, epidermal growth factor, and nerve growth factor. Early passaged 661W cells expressed high levels of retinal progenitor markers such as nestin and Pax6, but not opsin or glial fibrillary acidic protein. 661W cells grown in FGF-2 or EGF exhibited a multiple-process morphology with small phasebright nuclei similar to neurons, whereas cells cultured in nerve growth factor (NGF) or retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)- conditioned medium (RPE-CM) displayed rounded profiles lacking processes. 661W cells grown in FGF-2 were slightly elevated, but not significantly above, control cultures; but cells treated with RPE-CM or NGF were fewer, ~63% and 49% of control, respectively. NGF immunodepletion of RPE-CM strongly suppressed the inhibitory activity of RPE-CM on cell proliferation. Cells treated with FGF-2, but not NGF, upregulated their expression of opsin. All treatment conditions resulted in almost 100% viability based on calcium AM staining. Cells grown on extracellular matrix proteins laminin, fibronectin, and/or collagen resembled those grown on untreated dishes. This study showed that early passaged 661W cells displayed characteristics of retinal progenitor cells. The 661W cells proliferated and appeared to mature morphologically expressing rod photoreceptor phenotype in response to FGF-2. In contrast, NGF and RPE-CM inhibited prolifer- ation and morphological differentiation of 661W cells, possibly inducing cell cycle arrest. These findings are consistent with reports that the RPE modulates photoreceptor differentiation and retinal progenitor cells via secreted factors and may play a role in the regulation of the retinal stem cell niche.
20172262|The responsiveness of progeny of sheep-derived unilocular fat cells (adipofibroblasts) to dexamethasone, insulin, insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I), growth hormone (GH), and basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF) was determined in a clonal culture system. Primary cultures of mature adipocytes were obtained from intermuscular adipose tissue (semimembranosus/semitendinosus seam depot) of sheep by ceiling culture techniques. Following degeneration of unilocular fat droplets and re-establishment of fibroblasticlike adipofibroblasts, all adipofibroblasts adhering to upper flask surfaces were collected and isolated away from fibroblasts (which had no multilocular vesicles) by Percoll gradient centrifugation. Progeny derived from a single adipofibroblast were isolated and tested for the ability to proliferate, differentiate, and accumulate lipids. Stock cultures of adipofibroblasts reached confluence in 5 d and were induced to differentiate from 7 to 9 d with dexamethasone-methyl isobutylxanthine-insulin (DMI). Incubation with insulin, IGF-I, GH, or FGF prior to confluence followed by induction with DMI produced no direct (priming) effect on subsequent differentiation. When substituted individually in place of DMI during the 2 d differentiation/induction period, all factors induced differentiation of cultured adipofibroblasts as determined by lipogenesis (P &lt; .05) and lipoprotein lipase activity (P &lt; .05). Thus, isolated adipofibroblasts from sheep muscle may be induced by hormones and growth factors to display mature adipocyte morphology in cell culture. Further definition of the adipofibroblast culture system may aid in the identification of mechanisms regulating adipocyte development in sheep skeletal muscle, as well as in the study of intercommunication between fat and muscle cells.
4295005| In the search for environmental compounds responsible for contact or occupational vitiligo, it was found that the most potent was 4-tertiary butylphenol (4-TBP). Exposure to 4-TBP is widespread both in industry and in consumer items including synthetic leather, plastic, glues, and germicidal phenolic detergents. How 4-TBP causes depigmentation and the death of melanocytes is currently unclear. Growth mitogens for human melanocytes include -melanocyte stimulating hormone (-MSH), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). The former two mitogens are physiological growth factors for melanocytes. We have studied the effects of these mitogens on the cytotoxicity of 4-TBP in human melanocytes. Our results demonstrated that deprivation of -MSH or bFGF from melanocyte cultures resulted in reduced cytotoxicity to 4-TBP. Similar results were obtained upon treatment of melanocytes with an inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA), that is known to be activated by -MSH, or with an inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase bFGF receptor. In contrast, removal of fetal bovine serum or TPA from the culture medium did not influence the susceptibility of melanocytes to 4-TBP. These results suggest that activation of the cAMP and tyrosine kinase signaling pathways, both of which are involved in the mitogenic response of melanocytes, increase the susceptibility of these cells to the cytotoxic effects of 4-TBP. 
4295519| New World primate-derived cell lines were instrumental in identifying the primary factors causing glucocorticoid resistance in these primate species. Their use is expanding because it has been recognized that some of these cell lines exhibit differential sensitivity to retroviral infection. To enhance their utility as cell models, we have further characterized one of these cell lines, squirrel monkey-derived B-lymphoblast (SML) cells, using PowerBlot. PowerBlot is a highthroughput, proteomic screen designed to identify differentially expressed proteins. We compared proteins expressed in SML cells and in a human B-lymphoblast (HL) cell line. We found that, relative to HL cells, SML cells overexpress the calcineurin-activated transcription factor nuclear factor of activated T cells 1 (NFAT-1), which exists in a cyclosporine A (CsA)-sensitive dephosphorylated, constitutively active state. We show that there is increased binding of NFAT-1 to deoxyribonucleic acid and greater activity of an NFAT-sensitive human interleukin-2 (IL-2) promoter-luciferase reporter gene in SML compared with activity in HL cells. The increased NFAT activity does not likely result from calcium-dependent activation of calcineurin because cytosolic calcium levels were not different in SML and HL cells. Rather, SML cells express a truncated form of the catalytic subunit of calcineurin that we propose is responsible for the increased activity of the NFAT pathway. Thus, these novel findings first uncovered by a proteomic screen will enhance the value of these New World primate cell lines as "experiments of nature" to gain insight into mechanisms of NFAT activation. 
4295561|In this report, we show how the in vitro model of mechanically injured confluent monolayers of cultured mammalian cells, consisting in denudation by gentle scraping of areas in the monolayer, can be extended to obtain patterned cell cultures without using preadded attaching matrices. This work was done with a sinusoidal endothelial liver cell line. Patterns for cell growth were drawn in confluent monolayers by cell detaching with the aid of pipette tips followed by reincubation of the culture. In one or some d, acellular patterns were closed by cell migration and proliferation. For unveiling the pattern formed by migration and cell duplication, an enzymatic digestion with trypsin-collagenase solution was applied; after some min, only the migrating and younger cells filling the previous acellular pattern remained attached to the dish, and the now cellular pattern was clearly depicted. After stopping and recovering from the enzymatic treatment, the culture was ready for starting studies such as those related to migration, proliferation, cell-cell interactions. This method allows us to create simple and complex patterns, does not require preparation of the dishes with attaching matrices, and extracellular matrices in acellular areas are absent because of the enzymatic treatment, thus, potentially having many applications in cell culture techniques.
4295344|Retinoblastoma protein (Rb) expression has been correlated with state of differentiation, proliferation rate, and metastatic potential in breast adenocarcinomas and established cell lines. These observations, based on immunoreactivity of total Rb rather than hypophosphorylated protein, do not address the relationship between functional Rb and indicators of an aggressive transformed cellular phenotype. We hypothesized that the distribution of functional Rb and the kinetics of Rb phosphorylation would differ between cell lines representing immortalized mammary epithelium (MCF10A), differentiated nonmetastatic mammary adenocarcinoma (MCF-7), and poorly differentiated, highly metastatic mammary adenocarcinoma (MDA-MB-231) and that these differences would be informative of the cellular phenotype. Direct immunofluorescence microscopy was used to compare qualitatively the subcellular localization of total and hypophosphorylated Rb protein in synchronized and asynchronous cells. This technique was also used to quantitatively assess the amounts of hypophosphorylated Rb throughout the cell cycle in these representative cell lines. Total Rb stained more prominently than hypophosphorylated Rb in the nucleus of all asynchronous cells. Rb phosphorylation was more rapid in MCF-7 cells than in MCF10A cells, whereas Rb dephosphorylation appeared deregulated in MDA-MB-231 cells. We conclude that assessment of hypophosphorylated Rb may be more useful than assessment of total Rb for the evaluation of transformed breast adenocarcinoma phenotypes.
4294042|Despite more than 50 attempts and the use of various methods, it has been impossible to establish homologous hybridomas between human mature macrophages and 8-azaguanine-resistant U-937 clones prepared in the laboratory. To rule out the possibility that these clones were unsuitable for the selection of hybrids, a study of their properties was done. It was shown that U-937 wild type cells were able to produce HPRT, whereas 8-azaguanine (8-aza)-resistant clones did not. Curiously, exonic and intronic HPRT sequences were undetectable both in wild type and in 8-aza-resistant cell genomes, under conditions where they were detected in control cells. Chromosome analysis of the clone UM9, one of the most frequently used in fusion experiments, revealed many qualitative and quantitative differences with the U-937 wild type cells. 8-aza-resistant U-937 cells were capable of fusion with human macrophages and gave rise to heterokaryons and probably to synkaryons, which survived for weeks without dividing in hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine medium. The results could be interpreted in terms of the existence of a transacting negative regulatory mechanism of the macrophage genome on the proliferative capacity of homospecific hybridomas.
40205866|We are attempting to recreate a stretch reflex circuit on a patterned Bio-MEMS (bio-microelectromechanical systems) chip with deflecting micro-cantilevers. The first steps to recreate this system is to be able to grow individual components of the circuit (sensory neuron, motoneuron, skeletal muscle, and muscle spindle) on a patternable, synthetic substrate coating the MEMS device. Sensory neurons represent the afferent portion of the stretch reflex arc and also play a significant role in transmitting the signal from the muscle spindle to the spinal cord motoneurons. We have utilized a synthetic silane substrate N-1[3-(trimethoxysilyl) propyl) diethylenetriamine (DETA) on which to grow and pattern the cells. DETA forms a self-assembled monolayer on a variety of silicon substrates, including glass, and can be patterned using photolithography. In this paper, we have evaluated the growth of sensory neurons on this synthetic silane substrate. We have investigated the immunocytochemical and electrophysiological properties of the sensory neurons on DETA and compared the resultant properties with a biological control substrate (ornithine/laminin). Immunocytochemical studies revealed the survival and growth of all three subtypes of sensory neurons: trkA, trkB, and trkC on both surfaces. Furthermore, whole-cell patch clamp recordings were used to study the electrophysiological properties of the sensory neurons on the two surfaces. There were no significant differences in the electrical properties of the neurons grown on either surface. This is the first study analyzing the immunocytochemical and electrophysiological properties of sensory neurons grown long-term in a completely defined environment and on a nonbiological substrate.
4295224|Differentiated cells in the insect midgut depend on stem cells for renewal. We have immunologically identified Integrin
4294116|Previous studies have shown that cell density influences the expression of receptors for at least four growth factors. The data presented in this report demonstrate that epidermal growth factor receptors are regulated differently on cells expressing over a million receptors as opposed to cells expressing approximately fivefold fewer receptors. Specifically, we show that BT-20, MDA-468, and A-431-R1 cells, which exhibit a large number of epidermal growth factor receptors, preferentially down-regulate the high affinity class of these receptors as cell density increases. In addition, we show that these cells express cell surface epidermal growth factor receptors that are localized predominately to the periphery of the cells. In contrast, A-549 and BSC-1 cells, which exhibit fewer cell surface epidermal growth factor receptors and which reduce all affinity classes of epidermal growth factor receptors as cell density increases, exhibit a diffuse cell surface distribution of these receptors at both low and high densities.
4295337|The culture of porcine or bovine epiblasts, i.e., embryonic stem cells, on STO feeder cells resulted in their spontaneous differentiation into multiple cell types that were subsequently isolated as separate cell lines. Some of these cell lines were "neuron-like" in morphology. Immunofluorescent analysis of two porcine epiblast-derived cell lines demonstrated that the cells were positive for the expression of vimentin and the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Because of their stellate morphology and lack of neurofilament expression, it is possible that the cells are type 2 astrocytes. Similar analysis of a bovine epiblast-derived cell line showed that the cells were positive for vimentin but that they did not express GFAP. However, a few cells within the population expressed neurofilaments and alpha-internexin. It is possible that the bovine cells are neural precursor cells. The results confirm and extend the demonstrated in vitro pluripotency of porcine and bovine epiblast cultures and provide evidence for an in vitro model of embryonic neuroectoderm development.
4294409|The culture of cutaneous keratinocytes grown on a Puropore nylon microporous membrane at the air-liquid interface has been shown to be similar to the epidermis in a number of molecular and morphologic characteristics but to exhibit a significantly greater degree of tritiated water permeation. Various culture conditions have been altered in an effort to improve the water barrier properties. A Kp value in the range of
40205788|Tissue microarrays are ordered arrays of hundreds to thousands of tissue cores in a single paraffin block. We invented a novel method to make a high-throughput microarray group. Conventional smaller tissue microarrays were made first and then sectioned. Separate paraffin films were arrayed orderly onto a regular-sized glass slide to form a larger microarray group. Sections were not floated in a water bath but, rather, were cut singly using conventional microtome, arrayed orderly onto the glass slide with forceps instead of using a tape-based tissue transfer system, and then unfolded with warm water (46C) using a micropipette. This not only lowers the difficulty in sectioning but the overall tissue disks can be included in the same section. A microarray group of 2,534 small disks (theoretically, 2,560 disks can be made; 26 fell off during the procedure), the most up to now, was successfully made and may be used in immunohistochemistry, mRNA in situ hybridization, and flourescent in situ hybridization.
4295642| The function of adipose differentiation-related protein (ADRP) is known to be the uptake of long-chain fatty acids and formation of lipid droplets in lipid-accumulating cells. We hypothesized that ADRP might stimulate activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) to accumulate lipids, resulting in their transition to the quiescent state. In this study, cultured HSCs in fifth passages isolated from rat were infected by jadenovirus vector expressing ADRP (Ad.GFP-ADRP), and morphologic and functional changes were evaluated in comparison with control HSCs infected by recombinant adenovirus-expressing -galactosidase (Ad.LacZ). In Ad.GFP-ADRP-infected cells only, many tiny lipid droplets were apparent in the cytoplasm, while the outline of the cells was not changed. The ADRP was detected around the lipid droplets. In HSCs with intracellular actin filaments, the staining pattern of the filaments before and after infection with Ad.GFP-ADRP or Ad.LacZ did not differ. The cell proliferation rate was not influenced by infection with Ad.LacZ or Ad.GFP-ADRP. Type I collagen secretion from cells overexpressing ADRP was not significantly different from that of Ad.LacZ-infected cells. In our in vitro study, ADRP overexpression induced the formation of cytoplasmic lipid droplets in activated HSCs but could not convert other characteristics of the activated form into those of the quiescent form. 
41318685|A growing number of in vitro models have been introduced to study the mechanisms of spinal cord injury. A potential drawback of these models is that they are difficult to reproduce. In this study, an in vitro incision model was established using primary cultured neuronal cells from fetal rat spinal cords. The neurons were subjected to incision in a simple and reproducible way. To assess whether this model could simulate the responses of spinal cord neuron cells in vivo after a spinal cord transection, apoptosis, and the expression of immediate early genes were detected in the neurons at various time points after injury. The results indicated that: (1) significantly more terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling-positive cells were observed at 1, 3, and 7 d following injury and (2) the expression of both c-Jun and c-Fos was induced 10 min after incision and had markedly higher levels 2 h postinjury. These results suggested that our model can partially imitate the responses of in vivo neuronal cells after a spinal cord transection and such models may facilitate further understanding of biochemical and cellular events associated with spinal cord injury.
4294266| This study investigates the characteristics of two human cell lines1PT and 1PT VARIANT Aboth derived from the same histologically undifferentiated, neuroendocrine positive, non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) and capable of growth in unsupplemented serum-free minimum essential medium. In stationary culture, the cells of both lines grew both attached to a plastic substratum and in suspension; the 1PT VARIANT A line formed three-dimensional clusters of loosely adherent cells. The cell lines differed in their DNA content, the 1PT having 1.44 times and the 1PT VARIANT A having 2.39 times the normal human diploid DNA content. Chromosome counts supported this observation, the ploidy of the 1PT and VARIANT A lines being 1.11 and 1.64, respectively. On transmission electron microscopy the cells of both lines had dense core granules and immature desmosomes, whereas only the 1PT VARIANT A line had mucin granules. Both lines formed, in nude mice, tumors that, like the original tumor from which they were derived, were histologically undifferentiated and showed local invasion. The original tumor and both lines had demonstrable neuroendocrine markers. Cytokeratins were apparent in the tumor but not the cell lines, and neurofilaments were present in the cell lines only. Staining for epithelial membrane antigen, neural cell adhesion molecule, and desmoplakin differentiated between the two lines. These lines provide a useful model for the investigation of the biology of the neuroendocrine positive subgroup of NSCLC, which is clinically important because of the possible responsiveness of these tumors to chemotherapy. 
20869591|The role of radial glia cells (RGCs) as neural progenitors and as guides for migrating neurons is well established, mouse or human-derived radial glia (RG)-like cells in vitro showed some astroglia and stem/progenitor properties like RGCs in vivo, but different species-derived RG-like cells present some different properties. Here we acquired rat-derived RG-like cells on adherent conditions in vitro and then identified their astroglia and stem/progenitor properties. Similarly to the RGCs, the RG-like cells could be double-labeled by brain lipid-binding protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin with nestin and expressed some astroglia and stem/progenitor genes; these cells also presented tripotent differentiation potentialities, albeit the ability of gliogenesis far exceeded the neurogenesis in vitro. Taken together, we acquired and identified some properties of rat-derived RG-like cells from fetal cerebral cortices in vitro.
4294250| Cell cultures were initiated from seven human fetal kidneys that varied in gestational age from 90 days to newborn. The growth medium utilized was a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's and Ham's F12 supplemented with selenium (5 ng/ml), insulin (5 g/ml), transferrin (5 g/ml), hydrocortisone (36 ng/ml), triiodothyronine (4 pg/ml), and epidermal growth factor (10 ng/ml). For all the kidney isolates, initial cell attachment occurred within 12 h through multicell spheroids, and by 24 h a rapidly growing population of cells was obtained. Confluency was reached within 3 to 6 days. A combination of light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and ultrastructural evaluation was utilized to characterize the resulting cultures as epithelial and homogeneous within each isolate and among the isolates. That is, regardless of gestational age of the fetal kidney used as starting material, an identical or highly similar population of cells was obtained. By light microscopy, the cultures were noted to form very few domes, the number being an indication of transport activity. However, ultrastructural examination revealed that the cells were noted to form domes composed of only a few cells or "micro-domes" that would not be visible by light microscopy. Within the micro-domes as well as other areas of the monolayer an apparent absence of tight junctions was noted by routine transmission electron microscopy. However, by freeze fracture analysis cells were shown to possess sealing strands, the structural component of tight junctions. It is postulated that the tight junctions of fetal epithelial cells are structurally altered as compared to tight junctions in adult renal epithelial cell cultures. 
4295384|Previously, we reported the presence of certain nonparenchymal epithelial cells (NPECs) in adult porcine livers that demonstrate differentiation patterns including an emergence of duct-like structures (DLSs) in the colonies. In the present study, we examined the effect of supplements to the NAIR-1 medium (Dulbecco modified Eagle medium [DMEM]-F12 containing 5% fetal bovine serum [FBS] and 11 supplements) used in these cultures on formation of DLSs-emerged colonies (type I colonies). No type I colonies were observed in the cultures of the nonparenchymal cell fraction when Roswell Park Memorial Institute-1640 medium or DMEM-F12 (1:1) supplemented with 5% FBS was used as the culture medium. NAIR-1 medium without each component did not produce any significant results. No type I colonies were formed when epidermal growth factor, and hydrocortisone and insulin mixture (A) or nicotinamide and L-ascorbic; acid phosphate magnesium salt (Asc2P) mixture (B) was added to the DMEM-F12 medium supplemented with 5% FBS. However, when a combination of A and B was added, colonies were formed at a significant level. Together, the number of type I colonies was increased in the combination of A and B containing a higher concentration of Asc2P. We conclude that NPECs need a mixture of Asc2P and other components as supplements for type 1 colony formation.
4294232|Four insect cell lines were used to isolate two recombinant baculoviruses which had the
4295469| Protease inhibitors in combination with other antiretroviral drugs have been shown to be efficacious in treating human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection. The side effects of such a treatment usually involve perturbations of fat metabolism and insulin responsiveness. This has led to a number of studies on the adverse effects of these drugs in vitro. The concentrations of various protease inhibitors used in many of these studies were >20 M. Although some investigators did address the toxicity of protease inhibitors, no overall effort was made to examine this effect during differentiation of fat or muscle. In this study, we assessed the toxicity of HIV-1 protease inhibitors over a range of concentrations (i.e., 0 to 100 M) in nondifferentiating (e.g., human fibroblasts, 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, and L6 myoblasts) and differentiated cells (e.g., L6 myotubes). The most toxic protease inhibitor in all cell types was Saquinavir (sqv), whereas the least toxic protease inhibitor was Indinavir (idv). Ritonavir (rtv) and Amprenavir (apv) were more toxic than idv but not quite as toxic as sqv. In 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, treatment with sqv, rtv, and apv resulted in toxicity, whereas idv was not toxic even at the highest concentration used. Indinavir was not toxic to L6 myoblasts or L6 myotubes; however, sqv, rtv, and apv caused toxicity in L6 myoblasts. Saquinavir decreased L6 myotube viability in a dose-dependent manner. Human immunodeficiency virus-1 protease inhibitors were shown to be toxic in a variety of cell types. These effects on human fibroblasts and muscle cells have not been reported previously. 
20172274| Cranial sutures play a critical role in calvarial morphogenesis, serving as bone growth centers during skull enlargement. Defective suture morphogenesis, resulting in premature osseous obliteration of sutures and their failure to function appropriately, causes severe craniofacial anomalies. Previously published data demonstrated osseous obliteration of coronal sutures in vitro in the absence of dura mater and the rescue of sutures from osseous obliteration in rudiments cocultured with dura mater on the opposite sides of 0.45-m polycarbonate filters. With this in vitro culture system, experiments were designed to examine the nature of the soluble signal secreted by dura mater, required for maintaining intact sutures. The signal remained active in conditioned medium produced from dura mater, which was capable of rescuing coronal sutures from osseous obliteration in calvaria cultured without dura mater. When conditioned medium was segregated into heparin-binding and non-heparin-binding fractions, the signal capable of maintaining intact coronal sutures cosegregated with the heparin-binding component and remained functional in the absence of the non-heparin-binding component of conditioned medium. Evidence indicates that soluble, heparin-binding factors secreted by the dura mater act as osteoinhibitory signals at the suture site. 
4295643| This study provides information relevant to future research aimed at producing Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL) in vitro, which would potentially reduce the need to harvest and bleed horseshoe crabs as in the current methods of LAL production. To address the need for primary culture of horseshoe crab amebocytes, this study tested the effects of a variety of standard insect cell culture media on amebocyte morphology and viability after 7 d of maintenance. Amebocyte morphology was least altered from in vivo form in Grace's Modified Insect Medium, with no observed degranulation of cells, as compared to the other media tested. There were significant differences in amebocyte viability among the six insect cell culture media tested. Grace's Modified Insect Medium sustained viability of 77.2 5.1% (mean  standard deviation) of amebocytes, followed distantly by Grace's Insect Medium with 35.1  8.7% amebocyte viability. Results indicate that Grace's Modified Insect Medium with horseshoe crab serum supplementation was the best candidate of the six media tested for future medium optimization for Limulus amebocyte requirements. 
4294360|The human colonic epithelial cell line HT-29 can be productively infected with various HIV-1 and HIV-2 isolates that are highly cytopathic for T lymphocytes. In each case, a chronically infected HT-29 cell line can be established, and progeny viruses retain their original properties including high cytopathogenicity for T cells. Inasmuch as AIDS vaccines should include viral isolates capable of infecting mucosal epithelial cells, it may be useful to produce these isolates in such cells at a large scale. We describe here a microcarrier-based culture system allowing the production of infectious viruses from HT-29 cells grown in a chemically defined serum-free medium (Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium/F12, HEPES 15 mM, pH 7.4, transferrin
4295176|Malignant melanoma poses a serious health risk which is becoming more crucial as the incidence of this disease steadily increases. The development of appropriate in vitro models that reflect the in vivo tumor environment is a key factor for the study of this malignancy. The local tumor microenvironment plays a critical role in the ability of tumor cells to proliferate and metastasize. While interactions among various cell types are known to be important for tumor growth, most in vitro models utilize only tumor cells, ignoring the importance of tumor-stroma interactions, as well as the contribution of immune cells, which may be important for potential therapies. In addition, the cellular architecture found in vivo, known to be involved in changes in gene expression, is not reflected in standard two-dimensional culture systems. In this study, we have utilized rotating-vessel bioreactors to culture minced human melanoma specimens, allowing the culture of three-dimensional structures which reflect the cellular architecture and heterogeneous composition of the tumor site in vivo. The viability of the pieces in culture can be maintained for 1-2 wk. Immunohistochemical analysis shows multiple cellular types similar to the in vivo situation. Therefore, this system provides a unique model of human melanoma that mimics the in vivo tumor environment much more closely than current culture methods. This novel system may be utilized to determine the mechanism of action of current therapy protocols, as well as to develop new treatment regimens.
4295589|A critical component in controlling the production of biological products derived from human and animal cell lines is the characterization and testing of banked cell substrates. The objective is to confirm the identity, purity, and suitability of these cells for manufacturing use. Quality concerns for biological products derived from cell lines originate from the presence of cellular and adventitious contaminants. Well-characterized cell banks not only permit a consistent source of production cells throughout the life of a product but also decrease the likelihood of contamination by other cell lines and adventitious agents. An important part of qualifying a cell line is choosing the appropriate testing for the presence of adventitious contaminants. The qualification of cell banks includes tests for cell identity and endogenous and adventitious microbial contaminants (bacteria, fungi, mycoplasmas, and viruses). For cells producing recombinant deoxyribo-nucleic acid-derived products, analysis of the expression construct at the nucleic acid level (genetic stability) is also a primary concern. The strategy for designing a safety-testing program for banked cells should be based on sound scientific principles and current regulatory guidance.
4295325|This work reports the isolation and characterization of a line of human, nontransformed and differentiated prostate epithelial cells (EPN) in continuous culture. Primary cultures of epithelial prostate cells were set up using normal tissue isolated from a prostate sample collected after radical prostatectomy for cancer. After 70 passages, EPN cells did not undergo "Hayflikc crisis" and were free of fibroblast contamination and were thus subcloned and characterized. EPN cells in culture, as prostate epithelial cells in vivo, express high-molecular weight cytokeratin and Pyk2, whereas they do not express desmin. EPN cells are nontransformed because they do not form colonies in semisolid medium and do not form tumors once injected into nude mice. EPN cells express the functional androgen receptor, which can mediate the mitogenic activity of testosterone. Finally, clonal production of the prostate-specific antigen could be detected in EPN cells. The availability of a line of epithelial nontransformed prostate cell in culture will be useful in investigating the complex process regulating normal prostate physiology as well as the development and progression of prostate tumors.
4295246|12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) treatment induces human adenovirus (Ad) early region 1A (E1A) messenger ribonucleic acid expression in infected or Ad-transformed cells. Here, we report that deletion analysis has identified a TPA-responsive element (TRE) in the E1A enhancer region. Deletion analysis indicates that the TRE is located upstream of the E1A cap site between nucleotides -237 and -47. Incubation of extracts from TPA-treated cells with radioactively labeled deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) fragments containing the TRE (-237 to -47) form specific DNA-protein complexes as demonstrated by gel shift analysis and Southwestern blotting. These experiments provide evidence that novel protein-DNA complexes are formed on a region of the E1A promoter required for TPA-enhanced expression. We speculate that these DNA-binding proteins may interact with the TRE and play a critical role in the mechanism through which TPA upregulates transcription from the Ad E1A gene.
20616542|There is much interest in the positive health effects of nutraceuticals, in particular, polyphenols, which have both antioxidant and prooxidant characteristics. Pyruvate, a scavenger of hydrogen peroxide, is a component in some, but not in all, commercial formulations of cell culture media, Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium in particular. This study showed that the cytotoxicities to human fibroblasts of hydrogen peroxide, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, and various prooxidant nutraceuticals were lessened in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium formulated with pyruvate, as compared to the same medium but formulated without pyruvate. Intracellular glutathione was unaffected in cells treated with hydrogen peroxide in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium formulated with pyruvate, as compared to medium formulated without pyruvate. In these studies, intracellular glutathione was analyzed in acid-soluble cell extracts by determining the oxidation of reduced glutathione by 5,5-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) to glutathione disulfide, with the formation of the yellow chromagen, 5-thio-2-nitrobenzoic acid, measured spectrophotometrically at 412 nm and by the visualization of reduced glutathione in cells stained with the fluorescent dye, Cell Tracker Green 5-chloromethylfluorescein diacetate. A survey of various cell culture media, formulated with and without pyruvate, confirmed that the level of added hydrogen peroxide was greatly lessened in those media formulated with pyruvate. This study suggested that the pyruvate status of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium be specified in the experimental design, especially in studies involving oxidative stress.
4295476| A readily obtainable in vitro paradigm of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) would offer considerable benefits. Toward this end, in this study, we describe a novel method for purifying murine brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMEC) for culture. The method uses limited collagenase-dispase digestion of enriched brain microvessels, followed by immunoisolation of digested, microvascular fragments by magnetic beads coated with antibody to platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1. When plated onto collagen IV-coated surfaces, these fragments elaborated confluent monolayers of BMEC that expressed, as judged by immunocytochemistry, the adherens junction-associated proteins, VE-cadherin and -catenin, as well as the tight junction (TJ)-associated proteins, claudin-5, occludin, and zonula occludin-1 (ZO-1), in concentrated fashion along intercellular borders. In contrast, cultures of an immortalized and transformed line of murine brain capillary-derived endothelial cells, bEND.3, displayed diffuse cytoplasmic localization of occludin and ZO-1. This difference in occludin and ZO-1 staining between the two endothelial cell types was also reflected in the extent of association of these proteins with the detergent-resistant cytoskeletal framework (CSK). Although both occludin and Z0-1 largely partitioned with the CSK fraction in BMEC, they were found predominantly in the soluble fraction of bEND.3 cells, and claudin-5 was found associated equally with both fractions in BMEC and bEND.3 cells. Moreover, detergent-extracted cultures of the BMEC retained pronounced immunostaining of occludin and ZO-1, but not claudin-5, along intercellular borders. Because both occludin and ZO-1 are thought to be functionally coupled to the detergent-resistant CSK and high expression of TJs is considered a seminal characteristic of the BBB, these results impart that this method of purifying murine BMEC provides a suitable platform to investigate BBB properties in vitro. 
4295055|As sources of natural products with potential human therapeutic value, marine sponges are important subjects for cell culture studies. A critical component of any cell culture system is its growth medium. Proceeding from the hypotheses that the thawed, cryopreserved, primary cells would display detectable differential responses and that those responses could be comparatively quantified, this study has established that multiwell screening assays are useful tools for improving medium formulations in cell cultures of the marine sponge, Teichaxinella morchella. Fluorescent probe signals were correlated with known cell densities and viabilities in a 96-well format. Analysis of variance and post-test methods were applied to judge the significance of signal differences seen in a variety of medium formulations. Results from a series of experiments suggested that reducing glutamine and selenium concentrations in the standard medium would result in greater DNA, protein, and esterase activity signals. This was confirmed by the direct comparison of the standard and improved medium formulations. Significantly higher protein content and esterase activity were associated with the improved medium. DNA content was also higher, though not significantly. The result is a new medium formulation that may be more able to support cell growth and division, providing an improved cell culture system for marine sponge cell studies. The assays can be used in additional studies to further improve the in vitro conditions for marine sponge cell culture.
40802404|This study was to investigate the stability, physico-mechanical property and biocompatibility of porcine corneal acellularized matrix (PCAM) that was prepared using human sera treatment to decellularize corneas. The stability (the rate of biodgradation) and physicomechanical property (water uptake, density, and porosity) of PCAM were not compromised, compared with porcine fresh cornea matrix (PFCM, p> 0.05). The contact and extract cytotoxicity tests with human corneal epithelial cells and human keratocytes showed that PCAM has a good biocompatibility ex vivo and no cytotoxic effect. These results present the ability to create safety scaffolds that function as cornea grafts and provide a novel experimental approach for the study of cornea tissue engineering using acellular porcine cornea.
4294121|During the last decade, zebrafish (Brachydanio rerio) have emerged as a novel and attractive system to study embryogenesis and organogenesis in vertebrates. The main reason is that both extensive genetic studies and detailed embryologic analysis are possible using this small tropical fresh water teleost. However, in vitro analysis using cell culture or molecular genetics are still far less advanced than in other vertebrate systems. Here we report the generation and characterization of a fibroblast like cell line, ZF4, derived from 1-day-old zebrafish embryos. The hyperploid cell line has been stable in multiple passages for more than 2 yr now and is the first zebrafish cell line that can be maintained in conventional medium containing mammalian serum. Using a series of plasmids for expression of a marker gene, we evaluate in ZF4 cells the relative strength of expression from several different viral, fish, and mammalian promoters. Stable integration can be obtained by using G418 selection. We hope that our cell line will be a useful tool for the analysis of gene regulation in zebrafish.
20172272|An undifferentiated subset of cells within the stromal cell population of bone marrow in postnatal mammals retains the capacity to differentiate along osteogenic, adipogenic, fibroblastic, and chondrogenic lines. These cells, which are referred to as mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), can be maintained in vitro and expanded in number through a process of subculturing. MSCs are maintained in culture in medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). It is believed that certain, as yet unidentified, serum components play critical roles in the attachment and proliferation of MSCs. Commercially available FBS is poorly characterized and may vary in composition and quality from lot to lot. This study describes a method for the selection of lots of FBS that best support maintenance of the undifferentiated state, mitotic expansion of MSCs in vitro, and retention of multilineage developmental potential in response to appropriate cues.
4295511|Fibroblasts in vitro can acquire myofibroblast phenotype by the development of several biochemical and morphological properties of smooth muscle cells, particularly the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin. These cells play a major role in inflammatory responses and in wound repair through their production of growth factors, cytokines, and other soluble mediators. Lipid bodies (LB) are lipid-rich cytoplasmic inclusions and have been recognized as specialized intracellular domains involved in the formation of paracrine mediators of inflammation. The aim of the present study was to investigate the occurrence and distribution of LB during differentiation of rat fetus skeletal fibroblasts into myofibroblasts in vitro. Primary cultures of fibroblasts were obtained from skeletal muscles of 18-d-old Wistar strain rat fetus by enzymatic dissociation. At 1-7 d, the cells were stained with Nile red vital dye to identify LB and then observed under a Zeiss CLSM-310. Our results showed that there was an accentuated increase in the number of LB during the differentiation of skeletal fibroblasts into myofibroblasts and that these inclusions were scattered at the cytoplasm.
41408877|Endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) play a central role in endothelial maintenance and repair. Endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFC) form a subpopulation of EPC. ECFC are readily attainable, can be easily isolated, possess a high proliferation potential, and are therefore a promising source of endothelial cells (EC) for future cardiovascular therapeutic applications. The extent to which these cells respond to shear stress as adult vascular EC remains to be elucidated. Here, we study the transcriptional response of ECFC induced by shear stress and compare it with the response of mature arterial and venous cells. ECFC, as well as human umbilical vein EC (HUVEC) and human umbilical artery EC (HUAEC), were subjected to low (0.5 Pa) and high (2.5 Pa) shear stress. The endothelial differentiation phenotype and transcriptional responses were analyzed using immunocytochemistry and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR). Performing absolute quantification of copy numbers by Q-PCR allows comparing the responses of cell types relative to each other. Our data show that isolated ECFC resemble mature EC in cobblestone morphology and endothelial marker expression. Absolute Q-PCR quantification revealed that although being truly endothelial, ECFC do not fully resemble HUVEC or HUAEC in the expression of specific differentiation markers. When subjected to shear stress, ECFC show a mature response to fluid flow, comparable to that of HUVEC and HUAEC. The capacity of endothelial progenitors to respond to fluid flow in a similar manner to HUVEC and HUAEC highlights the universal response of EC to fluid shear stress, independently of their endothelial differentiation status. This property supports the use of these cells as an EC source for tissue engineering applications.
