20171460| The biological actions of insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I) measured under serum-free assay conditions were found to be significantly influenced by prior subculture conditions for adult human fibroblasts. Glucocorticoids seemed to be the major medium variable affecting IGF-I action. IGF-I added to serum-free cultures had little or no effect on [C]aminoisobutyric acid uptake or [H]thymidine incorporation in human fibroblasts previously maintained in media containing serum with low glucocorticoid levels or in serum stripped of endogenous steroids. However, a 48-h preincubation with dexamethasone resulted in a marked synergistic increase in IGF-I stimulation of [C]aminoisobutyric acid uptake and [H]thymidine incorporation in these cultures. In contrast, IGF-I in serum-free medium seemed to be a potent mitogenic and metabolic stimulus for human fibroblasts which had been subcultured in media with a high glucocorticoid content, either endogenous or supplemented. After these culture conditions, a 48-h preexposure to dexamethasone had no further enhancing effect on IGF-I action. Dexamethasone also potentiated IGF-I, insulin, and epidermal growth factor stimulation of fibroblast replication depending on the earlier subcultivation conditions. Thus, glucocorticoids are important modulators of IGF-I bioactivity in cultured human fibroblasts. Serum glucocorticoids can exert a profound influence on the biological phenomena measured in cell culture, even when the serum has been removed before the actual experiment, and must be carefully taken into account for accurate evaluation of the biological function of IGF-I and other growth factors. 
20171467| Quantitative data are presented on the efficiency of three stages of plant regeneration from somatic embryos of Norway spruce (Picea abies L.): 1) Maturation, the development of immature embryos to the cotyledonary stage; 2) Germination, primary root growth; and 3) Conversion, plantlet survival and continued growth in nonaxenic conditions. Maturation frequency was calculated relative to the number of immature somatic embryos induced to develop on the basal medium of von Arnold and Eriksson (1981). The average number of immature somatic embryos was 700 per gram of embryogenic callus, on medium supplemented with ABA and IBA (1 M each). Maturation was the least efficient stage of regeneration; an average of 3% of the embryos induced to develop reached the cotyledonary stage. Mean germination frequencies were improved on treatments which avoided immersion of the radicle in medium solidified with agar. Whereas, 27% of the somatic embryos germinated when radicles were immersed in agar medium, 45% germinated when placed on the surface of the medium, and 56% germinated when cotyledons were immersed in agar medium and the culture vessel inverted. Twenty-nine percent of the somatic embryos germinated in vitro were converted to plants. Under greenhouse conditions these plants set dormant buds, subsequently survived overwintering (to -5 C), and renewed vegetative growth synchronously with seedlings grown under the same conditions. Our results verified long-term (2 year) growth and development potential of conifer somatic embryo plants. 
4296886|Two in vitro passages of a human endometrial adenocarcinoma continuous cell line (RL95-2), an early (subcultured <30 times) and a late passage (subcultured >200 times) have provided an interesting model to study the growth, morphologic, and invasive properties of endometrial tumors. The early passage, which has been shown to be estrogen-receptor positive, has characteristics closely resembling a primary tumor, whereas the estrogen receptor negative late passage exhibits several features of the metastatic phenotype. Compared to the early passage cells, the late passage cells were less serum dependent, formed foci, demonstrated a faster rate of growth (due to their shorter doubling times), and attained higher saturation densities. The late passage cells also displayed an altered morphology which was accompanied by alterations in the distribution of F-actin. Even though early and late passages showed similar invasive potential in an in vitro invasion assay, the late passage cells, by virtue of their several transformed characteristics, maintain distinctive properties compared with their early passage counterparts.
20171506| Before the usefulness of a new in vitro model can be ascertained, the model must be properly defined and characterized. This study presents the growth rate and biochemical characteristics of rabbit renal proximal tubule cells in primary culture over a 2-wk culture period. When grown in a hormonally defined, antibiotic-free medium these cells form confluent monolayer cultures within 7 d after plating. Multicellular dome formation, an indicator of transepithelial solute transport, was expressed after confluent cultures were formed. The activity of the cytosolic enzyme, lactate dehydrogenase, and the lysosomal enzyme, N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, increased 14- and 2-fold during the first 8 d of culture, respectively. In contrast, the activity of a brush border enzyme, alkaline phosphatase, decreased 85% within the first 8 d of culture. Release of these enzyme markers into the culture medium, which are routinely used to measure cytotoxicity, stabilized after 8 d in culture. The ratio of cellular protein to DNA changed according to the state of cellular growth. Values rose from 0.035 mg protein/g DNA in preconfluent cultures to 0.059 mg protein/g DNA in confluent cultures. These results document the characteristics of a primary proximal tubule cell culture system for future studies in in vitro toxicology. 
20171573|Dormant grape somatic embryos from five genetically distinct culture lines were subjected either to dehydration or exogenous growth regulators (benzyladenine, gibberellin or abscisic acid). Of growth regulator treatments tested, benzyladenine resulted in the highest germination rate but postgermination growth was abnormal. Abscisic acid treatment resulted in the least germination. Dehydration for 21 d under 75-95% relative humidity was effective only for the culture line that produced well developed embryos. However, for this line, more embryos produced shoots after dehydration (34%) when compared to growth regulator treatments and the postgermination growth resembled that of a seedling. Moisture content of dehydrated somatic embryos was similar to that of seed at equivalent relative humidities. Because dehydrated embryos germinate after addition of water, they are considered to be quiescent or nondormant. Plant recovery rates of 34% after 21 d of dehydrated storage at 70% relative humidity suggests that dehydration of somatic embryos may eventually provide for the conservation of clonally propagated crops in seed gene banks.
4296736| In the present study we have established a pure monolayer culture system of human fallopian tube epithelial cells. The cells were isolated using collagenase digestion, and were cultured in Medium 199 supplemented with 15% fetal bovine serum. The epithelial cells derived from primary and secondary culture were characterized using immunocytochemical staining and electron microscopy. The cells continued to grow for 2 to 3 wk once the monolayer culture of the cells was established. It is currently possible to maintain the cultures until the third generation. Proliferation of these cells was enhanced by epidermal growth factor but not by basic-fibroblast growth factor, insulin, transferrin, estradiol-17, or progesterone. This culture system offers a good model for determining characteristics of the tubal epithelium and would permit effective study of co-culture with embryos. 
4296672|A low protein aqueous lipid supplement (Ex-Cyte VLE), in combination with pluronic polyol, is an effective replacement for fetal bovine serum for insect Sf-9 cells. Serum-free medium with lipid supplement and pluronic (SFM-LP) supported higher cell viability and maximum cell populations than serum-supplemented medium. No adaptation procedures are required when switching cells from serum-containing medium to SFM-LP, and growth rates remain constant during continued passages in SFM-LP. The amounts of recombinant proteins produced, which is the major use for the Sf-9 cells, are better or equal in SFM-LP compared to serum-supplemented medium. SFM-LP also supports growth of the TN-368 cell line but IPLB-SF-21AE or IZD-Mb0503 lines grow poorly in this medium.
4296236|Studies with Human x Human (HxH), Human x Mouse (HxM), and Mouse x Mouse (MxM) hybridomas have enabled us to define specific factors that affect hybridoma growth in a species-specific manner. Three transferons and three lipophilic iron chelates have been tested for their ability to support hybridoma proliferation and antibody production. The results of these studies demonstrate that HxH hybridomas do not respond to bovine transferrin
4296393|The effect of Zn-induced metallothionein (MT) on the toxicity, uptake, and subcellular distribution of cadmium (Cd) was examined in rat primary hepatocyte cultures and compared to results obtained earlier in this laboratory from intact animals. Hepatocytes were isolated and grown in monolayer culture for 22 h and subsequently treated with
4296850| Using a panel of monoclonal anitbodies to several different cytoskeletal elements in primary cultures derived from newborn rat hearts we report that fibroblasts similar to cardiac-muscle cells expressed the -actin isoform of smooth muscle cells. However, striated muscle -actin or desmin antibodies did not stain cardiac fibroblasts but did stain cardiac-muscle cells. The -smooth muscle actin distributed as a stress fiber and in a cross-striated pattern in cardiac muscle while fibroblasts showed exclusive stress fiber staining. These results suggest that connective tissue cells during development of the heart contain muscle-specific elements which may relate to the organ-specific contractile function with which they are associated. 
20171515|We have utilized a novel cell culture system to probe nerve-epidermal-blastema cell interactions, in which the cellular participants are plated as compartmentalized juxtaposed monolayers. A mesoderm monolayer is attached to a culture plate insert and placed into a tissue culture well, the bottom of which is seeded with a second cell type(s); the two monolayers are separated by a distance of 1 mm. An examination of the multiple interactions occurring during blastemal growth can thus be accomplished by deletion of one or more of the cellular participants and employment of a replacement strategy utilizing substances with putative growth-promoting activity. [H]Thymidine incorporation into DNA of urodele amphibian blastemal mesoderm cells was evaluated in response to the influence of juxtaposed brain or epidermal cell monolayers or both cultured in paired combinations. Brain cells were resolved by differential adhesive selectively into enriched neuronal and glial subpopulations. In the presence of enriched neuronal cells, radiolabel incorporation into blastemal mesoderm DNA was significantly greater than that achieved by coculturing with glial or unresolved brain cell populations. The effect of epidermal cells was not overtly expressed in the absence of neuronal cells. The effect of growth factors [fibroblast growth factor (FGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), nerve growth factor (NGF)] on radiolabel incorporation into blastemal mesoderm DNA was also assessed in both the presence and absence of neuronal cells. Both EGF and FGF enhanced radiolabel incorporation into DNA when blastemal mesoderm was cultured in the absence of nerve, but the effect was significantly less pronounced than that achieved by neuronal cells alone. This system has provided us with an additional means of characterizing the dialogue between epidermis, nerve, and mesodermal blastema cells, and determining the identity of growth signals.
4296446|We describe a method for maintaining neonatal pig pancreatic isletlike cell clusters (as pseudo-islets) embedded in a collagen gel matrix for long periods. The pseudo-islets were formed from single cells of pig pancreas maintained in a suspension culture and then embedded in pepsin-solubilized type I collagen. When the pseudo-islets were cultured in the collagen matrix, the amount of collagen in the culture decreased gradually during the culture period as soluble hydroxyproline-containing material accumulated in the medium. A low concentration of collagen (0.16%) degraded the collagen gels more rapidly than did high concentrations of collagen (0.64%). The degradation of collagen depended both on the number of pseudo-islets embedded in the gel matrix and on the culture conditions used to maintain them. With added nicotinamide, the accumulation of hydroxyproline decreased in the medium and the structure of the gel matrix was well maintained. Hydrocortisone or a specific inhibitor of collagenase did not decrease the solubilization of embedded pseudo-islet cultures and did not help to maintain their structure. These observations indicate the possible utility of long-term maintenance of pseudo-islets in collagen gel matrix in the presence of nicotinamide.
20171426|A mass of pure adult rat parenchymal hepatocytes, obtained by a newly devised isolation technique, developed into organized micro-liverlike layered multicellular colonies in long-term primary cultures grown in the presence of bovine small intestine mucosal factors (SIMFs). These factors stimulated proliferation, aggregation, and orderly arrangement of the hepatocytes, and differentiation into partially functional micro-livers in vitro. SIMFs derived from other mammalian species affected rat hepatocytes in the same manner. Studies of the effects of mammalian SIMFs on hepatocytes may provide new insights into the kinetics and mechanisms of liver regeneration.
4296055|A long-term cell culture system for adult cardiomyopathic hamster cardiac muscle cells has been established. The diseased and control hearts were dissociated into single cell suspension with the modifications of our previous technique using collagenase and hyaluronidase as applied to the dissociation of the adult rat heart. The postperfusion of the diseased heart with Krebs-Ringer phosphate buffer and bovine serum albumin was very helpful in obtaining greater yield of viable diseased muscle cells; the cells were cultured for 4 wk. Approximately 60% of the myocytes from the diseased heart and 85% of the myocytes from the normal heart attached to the substrates and survived throughout the culture period. Approximately 60 to 70% of the cardiac myocytes from the diseased and control hearts were bi- or multinucleated; 30% of the diseased and 80% of the normal myocytes showed rhythmic contractility. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of two kinds of cardiac muscle cells in the diseased cell culture on the basis of their myofibril content: one with scanty myofibrils and another with abundant myofibrils. Myocytes with sparse myofibrils showed certain characteristic features that included autophagic vacuoles, amorphous matrix of fine filamentous texture, scattered strips of myofibrils, and abnormal organization of the Z-line. Cardiac muscle cells with abundant myofibrillar content contained unorganized myofibrils in certain sarcomeres. These studies demonstrate the feasibility of maintaining diseased cardiac muscle cells from adult cardiomyopathic hamsters for at least 4 wk in monolayer culture.
4296333|Epidermal keratinocytes grow in culture to form a stratified squamous epithelium. These cultures contain a replicating as well as a terminally differentiating population and undergo surface desquamation. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) and cholera toxin are usually employed as growth-promoting agents because they reduce the population doubling time; that is, the period required to increase the total cell number twofold. There are three ways in which this reduction in population doubling time could be achieved: (a) the time for one cell cycle or the cell cycle length may be shortened; (b) the number of cells that withdraw from the cell cycle and terminally differentiate may be reduced; or (c) the number of cells that desquamate into the medium over a set period of time may be reduced. We have explored these possibilities in growing cultures of epidermal keratinocytes using a newly developed double-label assay. This assay gives a measure of both cell length and cell cycle withdrawal. Results show that the growth enhancement induced by EGF and cholera toxin can be attributed primarily to a reduction in cell cycle withdrawal and, to a lesser degree, to a reduction in cell cycle length. EGF and cholera toxin have no significant effect on the rate of desquamation. A linear correlation was noted between cell cycle lengths and withdrawal, suggesting an interconnection between the rate of cell renewal and the likelihood of undergoing terminal differentiation.
4296849| Hyaluronic acid accumulation is characteristic of mammary tumor cells, and the amount that accumulates seems to correlate with the degree of malignancy of the producing cells. We have tested directly the relationship between hyaluronic acid accumulation and the replication rate of preneoplastic mammary cells in culture. We used nontumorigenic but immortal CL-S1 mouse mammary cells that were derived from a hyperplastic alveolar nodule. Using a collagen gel culture system, we found clear differences in the growth properties of cells before and after Passages 68 to 70. Late passage cells replicated earlier and faster than early passage cells in collagen and on plastic. The rate of cycling resembled that of tumorigenic mouse mammary cells during the first week of culture. Cells seeded at low densities cycled faster than those seeded at high densities during the second week in culture. Exogenous hyaluronic acid, at 10 to 1000 g/ml, neither enhanced nor inhibited CL-S1 cell growth significantly in collagen, regardless of passage. However, by the third day in collagen, late passage cells produced 7 times more total glycosaminoglycans and 12 times more hyaluronic acid per cell than did early passage cells. Late passage cells also deposited 12 times more labeled hyaluronic acid in the matrix than did early passage cells, on a per-cell basis. After a decline in the deposition of hyaluronic acid in the extracellular matrix, growth ceased. The late passage cells did not grow in soft agar, indicating that they had not become neoplastic spontaneously during passage. However, their accelerated growth rate, coupled with the synthesis and secretion of large amounts of hyaluronic acid into the extracellular matrix, may characterize a distinct step in tumor progression in preneoplastic CL-S1 ceUs. 
4296634|Epidermoid metaplasia in the hamster trachea can be produced by treatment with benzo(a)pyrene (BP) or vitamin A deficiency. To elucidate distinguishing features of the two types of lesions, lectin binding to tissue sections of tracheal explants exhibiting metaplastic lesions was assessed. In squamous metaplasia induced by vitamin A deficiency, Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA), wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), and peanut agglutinin (PNA) showed faint (+) to moderate (++) binding in both basal and suprabasal cells; Concanavalin A (Con A) showed moderate binding (++) to suprabasal cells and no binding in basal cells. In the BP-induced lesions, PNA and WGA bound intensely (++++,+++, respectively) in basal cells and faintly (+) to moderately (++) in suprabasal cells. The staining seemed to be predominant at the periphery of the cells. Further, the intensity of PNA and WGA staining increased significantly after the neuraminidase treatment. DBA and Con A showed faint (+) to moderate (++) binding in the BP-induced metaplasia. The results show that in BP-induced metaplasia, ceDs in the basal region show preferential binding of PNA and WGA.
4296753|The purpose of our experiments was to examine variables affecting early events in the establishment of rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cultures as well as factors regulating long-term RTE cell growth. The experiments showed that when RTE cells were seeded into complete serum-free medium between 13 and 30% of the seeded cells attached. Of the seeded cells, only ~2% entered into DNA synthesis and underwent repeated cell divisions to form colonies containing >20 cells. Coating the dishes with extracellular matrix components had little effect on cell attachment or colony forming efficiency (CFE). However, coating the dishes with fetal bovine serum markedly increased CFE. The media components bovine serum albumin and bovine pituitary extract were shown to be important in promoting cell attachment as well as CFE. Cholera toxin on the other hand had no effect on cell attachment but significantly increased CFE. These and other studies showed that cell attachment and cell proliferation are independently regulated. Studies on long-term culture growth indicated that the number of progeny produced per colony forming unit (CFU) is inversely proportional to the number of CFUs seeded. Inasmuch as the cultures did not become confluent under any of the culture conditions tested and media obtained from high density cultures were shown to be growth inhibitory, these findings suggest that a diffusible growth restraining factor is being produced by the cultures limiting clonal expansion. Experiments showing growth inhibitory effects of media conditioned by high cell density cultures support this interpretation. The putative factor reaches critical concentrations earlier in cultures seeded with high numbers of CFU than in cultures seeded with low numbers of CFU. Because the cultures are known to produce transforming growth factor-beta, this growth regulator probably plays a role in controlling RTE cell proliferation. However, it is likely than other events, such as depletion of growth factors from the media, also are significant in regulating the growth of the cultures.
4296277|Bovine aortic endothelial cells retain the ability to undergo histiotypic morphogenetic interactions in vitro as evidenced by a) the reversible expression of a sprouting cell phenotype and b) the patterned self-association of these sprouting cells into three-dimensional meshworks and tubule-like structures. These morphogenetic events are inhibited by xylosides in a dose-dependent manner. Two types of beta-xylosides (p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside and 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside) and one alpha-xyloside (p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-xylopyranoside) were tested. Beta-xylosides are well characterized acceptors of glycosaminoglycan chains, whereas alpha-xylosides do not function in this capacity and have been extensively used as negative controls when studying the effects of beta-xylosides. Both alpha- and beta-xylosides inhibited endothelial morphogenetic interactions. This inhibition was slowly reversed during the 6- to 7-d period following removal of the xyloside. Inhibition of morphogenetic interactions by xylosides occurred at concentrations (0.5 to 2.0 mM) that had no demonstrable effects on cell proliferation, migration, or adhesion to 2-D plastic or collagen substrata. The xylosides seemed to inhibit cell spreading on a 3-D environment, they also inhibited the incorporation of
4296325|Patterns of somatic embryo development from callus were elucidated in Ipomoea batatas Poir. (sweet potato). Embryos at three stages of development were able to grow into plants. They included embryos arrested at the late torpedo and cotyledonary stages, and an arrested torpedo embryo that resulted from precocious hypocotyl expansion. Early torpedo-stage embryos rooted on reculture but did not form shoots. A diversity of other embryo stages were also produced which upon reculture formed only adventitious embryos and roots. Morphologic variants with similar growth potential were noted among embryos at similar stages of development. Plasticity in somatic embryo developmental patterns led to different forms that were mature enough to produce plants.
4296337|Corneal fibroblasts, also known as keratocytes are surrounded by an extracellular matrix of collagen in vivo. To understand the physiology and pathology of these corneal fibroblasts, it is important to study their interactions with this extracellular matrix. We cultured rabbit corneal fibroblasts on tissue culture plastic dishes or in a hydrated collagen gel and compared the changes in morphology and mitotic activity. Corneal fibroblasts on plastic dishes were flattened and widely spread, whereas those in collagen gel became spindle-shaped with long processes. Examination with an electron microscope revealed that the corneal fibroblasts in collagen gel formed gap junctions with neighboring cells. Gap junctions were hardly ever observed between corneal fibroblasts cultured on plastic dishes. Corneal fibroblasts cultured in a collagen matrix showed much less incorporation of [
4295851|Induction of hepatocyte DNA synthesis in culture by cyproterone acetate (CPA), a potent hepatomitogen in vivo, was studied. Adult rat hepatocytes were grown on collagen gels in primary culture for 3 to 10 d. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) was used as a model inducer to establish appropriate culture conditions. (a) In serum-free medium EGF stimulated a wave of DNA synthesis in 10 to 30% of the hepatocytes. CPA had only a weak effect. (b) Increasing concentrations of newborn bovine serum (NBS) at 5 to 95% progressively inhibited the stimulatory effect of EGF. A similar inhibition was obtained by adding bovine serum albumin; 20% NBS, however, had a slightly stimulatory effect on the induction of DNA synthesis by CPA. (c) Portal rat serum (RS) at concentration of 5 to 95% markedly stimulated DNA synthesis, a plateau being reached between 20 and 95%. EGF had a distinct enhancing effect on DNA synthesis in the presence of 5 and 20% RS but not at 50 and 95%. CPA stimulated DNA synthesis in the presence of 20, 50, and 95% RS in a synergistic way. (d) Mitoses were found after treatment with EGF or with CPA. These results show that CPA can induce DNA synthesis in cultured hepatocytes and that RS contains factors facilitating the response to CPA.
4296690| An increasing number of polypeptide growth factors have been identified that have proven essential in the development of defined cell culture media for mammalian cell culture. The development of defined mammalian cell culture media, in turn, has provided an environment for studying cell lines in an experimentally manageable unit for studying the action of cellular regulators and genes that determine the properties of cells. Evidence that vertebrate growth factors may be present in insects is based on DNA sequences that encode epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor-. However, research on the influence of commercially available vertebrate growth factors is very limited. Although the majority of insect growth-promoting substances studied were isolated directly from insect hemolymph, few of these have been purified to the extent that they could be tested in insect cell, tissue, and endoparasite cultures. Research is needed in both of these areas to aid in developing defined insect culture systems, and to understand better the regulation of postembryonic growth and development in insects. 
20171427| We report the characterization of human osteoblastic cells that were derived from the surface of trabecular bone fragments. After removal of bone marrow cells, the bone lining osteoblastic cells lining the bone surface were obtained by migration and proliferation from the trabecular surface onto a nylon mesh. The isolated population proliferated in culture and exhibited osteoblastic phenotype. Cultured cells show a regular arrangement in vitro and exhibited multiple interconnecting junctions on scanning electron microscopic examination. Immunocytochemical staining showed that the cells produced almost exclusively type I collagen. Bone-surface-derived cells responded to 1-34 human parathyroid hormone by increasing intracellular cyclic AMP. Cell cultures exhibited high alkaline phosphatase activity, which was unaffected by 1,25 (OH) vitamin D. Untreated cells produced high levels of osteocalcin, a bone-specific protein, and they responded to 1,25(OH) vitamin D by increasing osteocalcin synthesis in a dose-dependent manner. Although cells cultured for up to 5 mo. still produced osteocalcin, the response to 1,25(OH)D decreased after multiple passages. This study shows that the bone cell populations isolated from trabecular bone surfaces are enriched in osteoblast precursors and mature osteoblastic cells. 
4296495|TN-368 cells were seeded at
20171480| We have previously reported that Reuber H-35 rat hepatoma cells secrete an autocrine growth-stimulating activity in serum-free culture. To characterize this activity, conditioned serum-free medium from dense H-35 donor cultures was collected in the absence and presence of [S]methionine. A 1:4 dilution of conditioned medium into fresh serum-free medium resulted in an increase in mean H-35 cell numbers per assay dish from 1.59  0.12  10 to 3.35  0.34  10 after 44 h of incubation. Control, unconditioned medium, resulted in significantly (P &lt; 0.05) less growth (2.14  0.41  10 cells per dish). Trypsin digestion eliminated the growth-promoting effect of conditioned medium but had no effect on unconditioned medium. Dialysis did not diminish the growth-promoting activity of conditioned medium. The immunoprecipitate of [S]methionine-containing conditioned medium with antisera against rat serum transferrin contained a dominant radioactive doublet of molecular weight equal to purified rat serum transferrin. A rat transferrin radioimmunoassay was devised and used to quantitate that 29.1  1.2 ng of transferrin was secreted per 10 cells per hour in serum-free culture. Addition of antitransferrin antibody resulted in a significant (P &lt; 0.025) decrease in H-35 cell growth after 48 h. Thus, a portion of the autocrine growth-promoting activity secreted by H-35 cells into serum-free culture is due to transferrin. 
4296952|Over time, rat hepatocytes cultured on collagen lose the capacity to express liver-specific functions. The influence on this degradation process of an alternative substratum-crude membrane fractions prepared from the liver of the same rat strain-was investigated. Freshly isolated rat hepatocytes were cultured in serum-free Williams E medium supplemented with aprotinin, selenium, dexamethasone, and insulin in flasks coated with a mixture of rat liver crude membrane fractions:collagen type I (100:1). The cells adhered firmly, exhibiting minimal spreading and remaining grouped in columns or in cell islands, and retained their liver-specific functions for more than 1 wk. Hepatocytes secreted substantially higher amounts of albumin than cells cultured on collagen-coated dishes, and on Days 1 and 9 in culture the total P-450 content was 72 and 40%, respectively, of that of freshly isolated cells. On Day 6, the 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase and the aldrin epoxidase activities were still more than 50% that of freshly isolated hepatocytes. Exposure to phenobarbital on Days 3 to 6 increased the total cytochrome P-450 content twofold; exposure to 3-methylcholanthrene increased the activity of the corresponding cytochrome P-450 isoforms to 20 times that observed in untreated cultures and 6 times that observed in freshly isolated cells. Thus, given the ease with which they are prepared, the use of crude membrane fractions combined with culture medium supplemented with aprotinin and selenium can facilitate the preparation of reproducible cultures suitable for long-term in vitro pharmacotoxicologic studies using rat hepatocytes.
4296002| Recent studies have determined that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) potentiates the soft agar growth responses of NRK-49F cells to several combinations of transforming growth factors (TGFs). In the current study, two other non-transformed cell lines, NR-6 and AKR-2B, which do not spontaneously form colonies in soft agar, were examined for their soft agar growth responses to FGF. Both the acidic form and basic form of FGF were found to induce the soft agar growth of these cells. In the case of NR-6 cells, the effects of TGF- were also examined. TFG- potentiated the soft agar growth response of NR-6 cells to FGF, but on its own did not induce soft agar growth. Attempts to identify other factors capable of modulating the response of these cells to FGF, led to the finding that both 12-0-tetra-decanoylphorbol-13-acetate and retinoic acid suppress FGF-induced soft agar growth of NR-6 cells and AKR-2B cells. The finding that FGF induces the soft agar growth of both non-transformed cell lines, together with the findings of others that both forms of FGF are angiogenic, lends further support to the suggestion that FGF plays a significant role in the in vivo growth of some, and possibly many, tumors. 
4296429|The acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are a family of mitochondrial flavoenzymes required for fatty acid beta-oxidation and branched-chain amino acid degradation. The hepatic activity of these enzymes, particularly the short-chain acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase, is markedly decreased in riboflavin deficient rats. We now report that the in vivo effects of riboflavin deficiency on the beta-oxidation enzymes of this group are reproduced in FAO rat hepatoma cells cultured in riboflavin-deficient medium. Although it has been long known that hepatic short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity is the most severely affected of the straight-chain specific enzymes in riboflavin deficiency, the mechanism by which its activity is decreased has not been reported. We have used this new cell culture system to characterize further this mechanism. Whole cell extracts from riboflavin-deficient and control cells were subjected to analysis by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electropheresis. The contents of the gels were then electroblotted onto nitrocellulose filters and probed with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase-specific antiserum. The relative abundance of enzyme antigen was estimated autoradiographically. Our findings indicate that short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity changes in parallel with its antigen, suggesting that riboflavin deprivation does not affect the activity of individual enzyme molecules. Further, no evidence of extramitochondrial enzyme precursor was found on the blots, making unlikely a significant block in the mitochondrial uptake process. These findings suggest that changes in short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity in riboflavin deficiency result from either increased synthesis or decreased degradation of the enzyme.
4295746|A serum-free medium (HMRI-2) has been developed for the outgrowth and subculture of epithelial cells from normal adult human ureter and bladder. Medium HMRI-2 consists of Ham's MCDB 152 with double the amounts of the essential amino acids in Stock 1, low Ca
20171564| Three related mouse mammary cell lines were cultured in collagen gels and assayed for growth factor responsiveness and interaction via soluble factors. The CL-S1 cell line is nontumorigenic and grows poorly in collagen gel culture. The +SA and -SA cell lines exhibit different degrees of malignant behavior in vivo and have different growth properties in vitro. In collagen gel culture, +SA growth was stimulated by serum but not by epidermal growth factor (EGF), whereas both serum and EGF were required for optimal growth of -SA cells of early passage number as well as CL-S1 cells. -SA cells of later passage repeatedly exhibited a change so as to no longer require serum while retaining EGF responsiveness. [I]EGF binding analyses indicated that CL-S1 cells bound EGF with less affinity than did -SA cells whereas +SA cells bound almost no ligand. When cell lines were maintained in separate collagen gels but shared the same culture medium, growth of +SA or -SA cells was slightly enhanced in the presence of CL-S1 cells and -SA cell growth was enhanced by the presence of +SA cells. Using the normal rat kidney fibroblast line NRK (clone 49F) as an indicator, serum-containing conditioned media from each cell line and from each pair of cell lines cultured in collagen gels were tested for transforming growth factor (TGF) activity. Both the -SA and CL-S1 lines tested positive for TGF- production and possibly released a TGF- activity. These results suggest mechanisms by which cell populations in and around tumors can modify one another's growth characteristics. 
4296780|To investigate the regulation of epithelial differentiation, normal human epidermal keratinocytes were cultured floating on the surface of culture medium without attachment to a solid substrate. Keratinocytes spread out on the surface of the medium, proliferated and differentiated either into several flat lacy sheets 1 to 3 cells thick (on medium containing 0.15 mM calcium) or formed one single aggregate of cells from 5 to 15 cells in thickness on medium containing 1.15 mM calcium. The cell aggregates demonstrated a pattern of ordered epithelial differentiation. Levels of progressive differentiation resembling the structure of normal human epidermis were identified by light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. Differentiation proceeded from cells at the air side toward cells at the medium side with basal appearing cells on the air side and keratinocytes expressing filaggrin and involucrin on the side toward the medium. These results demonstrate that organized epithelial differentiation can occur in the absence of extracellular matrix. In contrast with other air-liquid interface cultures, epithelial differentiation in the absence of extracellular matrix progresses from air towards medium.
4296273|Normal human keratinocytes isolated from skin and squamous carcinoma cells established from a human tumor (TR146 cell line) both exhibit limited morphologic differentiation when they are grown on conventional plastic dishes. However, when they are seeded on human de-epidermized dermis and cultured at the air-liquid interface, they are able to reform an epithelium having the morphology of the tissue of origin (i.e. skin or squamous carcinoma). The distribution in such reconstructed tissues of differentiation markers such as bullous pemphigoid antigen, 67K keratin, involucrin, membrane-bound transglutaminase, and filaggrin was very similar to their distribution in normal skin and squamous carcinoma specimens, respectively. The degree of differentiation is for both cell types extremely sensitive to culture conditions such as retinoic acid concentration, emersion of the cultures, etc. These results show that subcultured normal or tumoral keratinocytes are able to recover their specific morphogenetic potential when cultured in an environment close to their in vivo situation.
4296916|A simple and highly reproducible method was established for the culturing of adult rat and human hepatocytes as multicellular aggregates (spheroids). Purified rat and human liver parenchymal cells were cultured on nontissue culture (bacteriological) polystyrene petri dishes on a rotating platform. After an overnight incubation, the cells were found to form multicellular aggregates. The aggregates became spheroidal in shape after several days in culture. Histological sections of the spheroids showed an organized structure consisting of squamated cells on the outermost layer and cuboidal cells in the interior. Cellular structures characteristic of hepatocytes in the liver in vivo including bile canaliculi, peroxisomes, Golgi bodies, abundant mitochondria, and rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum were observed with electron microscopy. The spheroids were found to be viable up to the longest time studied of approx. 1 month in culture as demonstrated by their adherence and growth on collagen-coated substratum. The morphological resemblance between hepatocytes cultured as spheroids and the liver in vivo suggests that the spheroids may be a useful in vitro experimental model of the liver. Our simple method should allow hepatocytes to be cultured as spheroids easily in any laboratory equipped for cell culture. Our study here also is the first to report the culturing of human hepatocytes as spheroids.
4295995|A simple method was devised for the establishment of continuous lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCL). Unfractionated mononuclear cells collected from healthy donors were infected in vitro by Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) (strain B95-8) under specific conditions: an immunosuppressive drug, Cyclosporin-A (CS-A, Sandoz), associated with the use of a feeder layer (MRC-5) led to 100% efficiency of LCL establishment. A bank of 400 LCL was set up for completion of genetic studies. Regression and kinetics of virus-induced transformation were monitored and related to donors' EBV immune status. Mean time of LCL establishment and probability of regression among seropositive donors were not linked to any given value titer of antibodies against Viral Capsid Antigen (VCA) or against Epstein-Barr Nuclear Antigen (EBNA). However, when the anti-VCA:anti-EBNA ratio was considered, this parameter seemed to be linked to the kinetics of transformation but not to the probability of regression. Once LCL are established, large quantities of human cells can be produced. The complete cellular DNA is available so that any part of it can be scrutinized. Moreover, some of the phenotypic characteristics of these B cells can be used for a wide range of investigations.
4295842|Tissue culture of human large vessel endothelium is now routine in many laboratories but tissue culture of human microvascular endothelium remains a difficult procedure, preventing study of features of endothelial function that may be peculiar to the microvasculature. This report describes an improved method for tissue culture of human dermal microvascular endothelium derived from foreskin. The method is rapid, reproducible, avoids contamination with nonendothelial cells, and does not require the use of a tumor-conditioned medium. The major modifications over existing techniques are the use of a Percoll density gradient to remove the majority of nonenodthelial cells followed by a simplified weeding procedure that removes residual nonendothelial cells and leaves large numbers of endothelial cells to grow rapidly to confluence. The cells are identified as endothelial by their morphology and by positive immunofluorescence for Factor VIII. Proliferation experiments demonstrate their requirement for an exogenous matrix and for a high concentration of human serum. Whole serum was required as platelet-poor plasma serum had poor growth stimulatory activity. Proliferation could be enhanced by dibutyryl cyclic AMP or endothelial cell growth substance and was maximal with the combination of endothelial cell growth substance and heparin. However, the use of these agents did not remove the requirement for an exogenous matrix. Fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor, nerve growth factor, and thrombin did not increase proliferation.
4296041|A normal rat liver epithelial ceil line, with phenotype characteristics of "oval" cells (WB-F344), was examined for its ability to perform gap-junctional intercellular communication as measured by metabolic cooperation. To test for gap-junctional intercellular communication, 6-thioguanine-sensitive cells were cocultivated with 6-thioguanine-resistant cells. It was found that the recovery of 6-thioguanine-resistant cells depended on the densities of the 6-thioguanine-sensitive cells. Higher densities of 6-thioguanine-sensitive cells reduced the recovery of 6-thioguanine-resistant cells. These observations demonstrate that rat liver epithelial cells could metabolically cooperate, implying they could perform gap-junctional intercellular communication. Two tumor-promoting organochlorine pesticides, aldrin and dieldrin, were potent inhibitors of metabolic cooperation for these cells, but 12-0-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate and teleocidin, known mouse skin tumor promoters, were not significantly effective in inhibiting metabolic cooperation. The results suggest that these cells might provide the basis for an in vitro assay specifically to study liver tumor promoters.
4296013|Nine human-human hybridoma clones, secreting monoclonal antibodies reactive with nucleic acids, were generated by fusing with lymphocytes of lung cancer or systemic lupus erythematosus patients. These hybridoma antibodies were classified into 5 types, in terms of reactivities with DNA, RNA, various synthetic nucleic acids and cardiolipin. Hybridoma clone SU-1 secreted antibody reacting with dsDNA, ssDNA and RNA (type I). Clone HL-321 did not react with these, but with poly (dT), poly (I) and poly (G) (type II). Clone HL-349 was reactive with almost all nucleic acids tested and also with cardiolipin (type III). Clones HF-4, HF-7, HB-7 and HL-259 reacted with ssDNA, poly (A), poly (G) and cardiolipin, but not with RNA (type IV). HB-5 and SH-9 antibodies were reactive only with poly (dT) (type V).
4296494|A simple method to isolate and culture liver pigment cells from Rana esculenta L. is described which utilizes a pronase digestion of perfused liver, followed by sedimentation on a Ficoll gradient. A first characterization of isolated and cultured cells is also reported. They show both positivity for nonspecific esterases, and phagocytosis ability, like the cells of phagocytic lineage. Furthermore, after stimulation with a phorbol ester, these cells generate superoxide anions. At phase contrast microscope, liver pigment cells present variability in size, morphology, and in their content of dark-brown granules. Inasmuch as a cell extract obtained from cultured cells exhibits a specific protein band with dopa-oxidase activity, when run on nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, liver pigment cells from Rana esculenta L. should not be considered as melanophages, but as cells that can actively synthesize melanin. The method presented here seems to be useful to more directly investigate this extra-cutaneous melanin-containing cell system and to clarify its physiologic relevance.
4295921|Cultures generated from tissues consisting of multiple types of cells are often heterogeneous. Unless the cell type of interest has or can be given some selective growth advantage it may be overgrown by other cells. While developing techniques for the tissue culture of microvascular endothelial cells we evaluated an electrosurgical generator (diathermy) to selectively kill nonendothelial cells. Primary cell cultures were observed at x100 magnification under phase contrast microscopy and a needle electrode apposed to the cell to be destroyed. A return electrode was constructed by placing a sterile clip in contact with the culture medium. The diathermy power setting controlled the area of lysis. Use of this technique allowed weeding of unwanted cells without damage to endothelial cells, which were able to grow to confluence in pure culture.
4296878|Epithelial cells proliferate, forming organized tissues, when positioned in the lumen of a thin-walled, transparent, elongated cylindrical, cystlike culture chamber. The closed chamber, 2.5 mm in diameter and 25 mm long, bathed in medium, incubated with continuous gentle agitation, enables the inoculum to exchange metabolites including oxygen by diffusion across the thin, nylon filament-reinforced collagen membrane wall of the chamber. After periods of culture of a week or more, using inocula derived from urothelium, the inner surface of the cystic chamber is lined by a stratified epithelium. Proliferation of cells is seen in the basal zone, which is attached to the collagen substrate. The development of the model is briefly described. Some of the applications of the procedure are illustrated using cell lines, chick embryo tissues, and clinical tissues. Implications of the procedure are considered for studying categories of tissue biology, e.g., problems of aging, neoplasia, and toxicology.
4296199|A method is described for the quantitative analysis of the nerve-growth-promoting activity of biological molecules in tissue culture. The criteria used for the evaluation of this activity is based on the neurite length as well as the total number of neurites produced by the explant of whole dorsal root ganglia from 12-d-old chick embryos. A nerve growth index (NGI) is given to each ganglion during each of a 5-d culture period. The NGI is defined as the product of average neurite length in millimeters and the total number of neurites. We report that with increasing concentrations of fetal bovine serum, there was a proportional increase in NGI due to increased neurite density while the neurite length was not greatly affected. The NGI of several proteins with known nerve growth promoting activity, namely nerve growth factor, insulin, transferrin, and fibronectin were investigated for their activity and compared with that of fetal bovine serum.
4295850|Elicitation of sesquiterpenoid aldehyde phytoalexins in Gossypium arboreum cell suspension cultures was confirmed by thin layer chromatography, high performance reverse phase liquid chromatography, and an aniline-reaction assay after inoculation with heat-treated conidia of Verticillium dahliae. A 2.3x mean increase in total terpenoids was observed. Component phytoalexins varied, with either hemigossypol and gossypol being detected or the O-methylated terpenoids hemigossypol-6-methyl ether and related compounds. Long-term Gossypium suspension cultures were mixoploid with an increase in chromosome number and mean DNA content. Addition of V. dahliae elicitor(s) to the medium for embryo-proliferating callus of G. hirsutum inhibited growth and embryo production with a linear correlation (r = -0.87; P <0.01) between the elicitor concentration and the number of embryos. Addition of
4296461|The establishment, growth, and characterization of two new continuously growing human ovarian cancer cell lines (UWOV1 and UWOV2) as well as a subline (UWOV2 Sf) grown in chemically defined, serum-free medium are described. The cell lines were derived from ascitic tumors of two patients suffering from cystadenocarcinomas of the ovary. Both UWOV1 and UWOV2 lines grow in anchorage-dependent fashion as monolayers, whereas UWOV2 (Sf) forms multilayered domelike structures. Cytogenetic studies revealed nonrandom abnormalities involving chromosomes 1 and 11 in all three cell lines. Secretion of soluble collagen was detected in all three cell lines. In addition, UWOV2 (Sf) produces and secretes large amounts of extracellular matrix material with an ordered fibrillar structure which may function as an attachment factor for the serum-free cells. These cell lines seem to be useful for further studies of the biology of human ovarian cancer.
4296318|Previous investigations have demonstrated specific receptors and associated mitogenic actions for insulin and insulinlike growth factors I and II (IGF-I and II) in postnatal bovine aortic smooth muscle. Using fetal tissue we have observed different patterns of binding and action for these peptides. Smooth muscle cells isolated from near-term fetal bovine aortae were studied in early passage. Specific receptors for both IGF-I and IGF-II were identified. Specific binding averaged
20171462|Clonal populations were isolated from the mouse mammary cell line, COMMA-D, by transfection with a dominant-selectable gene, pSV2Neo, which confers resistance to the antibiotic, G418. Seven of twenty-four clones isolated retained the ability of the parental line to repopulate cleared mammary fat pads in vivo as ductal-alveolar hyperplasias. Two sublines designated CDNR2 and CDNR4 retained hyperplastic growth potential after multiple passages in vitro with low incidence of tumor formation. A third subpopulation, CDNR1, contained a single integration site for the pSV2Neo plasmid indicating a bonafide clonal origin for this subline. CDNR1 cells displayed heterogeneous growth phenotypes in vivo including hyperplasia, adenocarcinoma, and bone formation. Functional differentiation of CDNR1 cells organized as alveolarlike structures in vivo or on floating collagen gels in vitro was observed as determined by immunoperoxidase staining for the milk-specific protein, casein. Overall, the results indicate that a subset of cells from the COMMA-D cell line may be functionally analogous to stem cells existing in the mammary gland.
4296246|The potential usefulness of a zwitterionic detergent, 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propane sulfonate (CHAPS), in the stabilization of acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) was examined. Among several detergents, CHAPS was found to be not only non-cytotoxic but also most useful in handling the diluted preparations of FGFs. The advantages are as follows: 1) at lower concentrations than 0.01% CHAPS did not affect growth factor activity of calf serum (CS) and the growth rate of BALB/c 3T3 cells. The primary culture of rat prostate epithelium and colony formation of NRK-49F cells were hardly influenced by CHAPS lower than 0.003%; 2) the loss of FGFs that usually occurs due to their adherence to the surface of storage containers was effectively prevented by inclusion of 0.1% CHAPS; 3) the recovery of FGFs after storage or dialysis was significantly enhanced by inclusion of 0.1% CHAPS; 4) CHAPS at lower concentrations than 0.1% does not interfere with amino acid analysis, except that Thr may be misled only when the ratio of protein/CHAPS is low; 5) amino acid sequence analysis was hardly disturbed by CHAPS up to 0.5%. These results indicate that CHAPS is useful as a stabilizing agent for various kinds of polypeptides capable of showing biological activity at a low concentration.
4296597|Human platelet-derived transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is a cell-type specific promotor of proteoglycan synthesis in human adult arterial cells. Cultured human adult arterial smooth muscle cells synthesized chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and heparan sulfate proteoglycans, and the percent composition of these three proteoglycan subclasses varied to some extent from cell strain to cell strain. However, TGF-beta consistently stimulated the synthesis of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. Both chondroitin 4- and chondroitin 6-sulfate were stimulated by TGF-beta to the same extent. TGF-beta had no stimulatory effect on either class of
4296450|1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin
4296334|Although several proteases have been identified in homogenates of cultured epithelial cells of the eye lens and in lens tissues, there is little information regarding intracellular protein degradation in intact lens cells in vitro. Cultured lens cells may be useful in the study of intracellular protein degradation in the lens, a tissue with a wide range of protein half-lives. This is of interest because alterations in protein turnover in the lens have been implicated in cataract formation. This study examines intracellular protein degradation in cultured bovine lens epithelial cells (BLEC). Cell cultures were incubated with radiolabeled leucine to label intracellular proteins. Protein degradation was measured by monitoring the release of trichloroacetic-acid-soluble radioactivity into the culture medium. The average half-life of long-lived proteins (half-life > 50 h) was typically about 57 h in serum-supplemented medium. Average rates of degradation of long-lived proteins increased by up to 73% when fetal bovine serum was withdrawn from the culture medium. Serum had no effect on the degradation of short-lived proteins (half-life < 10 h). Degradation of long-lived proteins in the presence and absence of serum was further studied in cultured BLEC from population doubling level (PDL) 2 to 43. Average half-life of proteins in serum-supplemented medium was 52 to 58 h and did not vary significantly as a function of PDL. Degradation rates in serum-free medium increased approximately twofold up to PDL 7, but returned by PDL 25 to original levels, which were maintained through PDL 43.
4296739|Normal rat kidney proximal tubule epithelial cell cultures were obtained by collagenase digestion of cortex and studied for 10 days. To assess the purity of the seeding suspension, we histochemically demonstrated
4295963|A method is described for the isolation of large numbers of viable disaggregated cells from human tissues. This method combined the mechanical action of a Stomacher Model 80 Lab Blender, 0.1 mg/ml trypsin or 0.5 mg/ml collagenase, and 0.1 mM [ethylene bis(oxyethylenenitrolo)]-tetraacetic acid (EGTA). Tissue (0.2 to 1.0 g) obtained from human fetal intestine, kidney, liver, lung, and skin were separately minced into approximately
4296511|Endothelial cells bind, process, and transport bioactive molecules and thus provide an interactive interface between the plasma and adjacent tissues. Various hormones and factors induce endothelial cells to synthesize and secrete interactive factors. However, study of endothelial cell synthesis, processing, and transport of these bioactive molecules has been impeded because of the serum requirement for cell growth. Many of these bioactive molecules are derived from or are modified by serum components. We have developed a short-term culture system that supports sequential subculturing of endothelial cells in a serum-free culture medium on a defined extracellular matrix. The cells have a doubling rate of 33 h and the total cell number can be expanded more than 800-fold. Expression of specific markers; factor VIII related antigen-von Willebrand factor, Wiebel-Palade bodies, a cobblestone appearance of confluent cell monolayers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme activity confirm the normal morphologic integrity and biochemical function of these cultures. Using this defined serum-free medium, we have grown human endothelial cell monolayers on porous polycarbonate membrane inserts, thereby creating an upper and a lower chamber that models the vascular architecture and demonstrates an inverse relationship between transport and molecular weight. By eliminating serum components, this model system should facilitate the study of endothelial cell binding, metabolism, and transport of bioactive molecules and may contribute to a better understanding of the blood-tissue interface.
20171585|Five spontaneous canine mammary tumors were cultured in vitro and cell lines were established. The tumors included three frozen carcinomas, fine-needle aspirate from one fresh carcinoma, and one fresh atypical benign mixed tumor. The cell lines have so far been cultured for about 2 yr and passaged between 45 and 200 times. The cell lines expressed different types of intermediate filaments, including a heterogenous pattern. In some cases no intermediate filaments were expressed. Ultrastructure studies showed epithelial cells and cells intermediate between epithelial and myoepithelial types. Retrovirus associated A-particles were found in two carcinomas. The mixed mammary tumor cell line formed ductlike structures in collagen substrate. The cell lines grew when inoculated s.c. into male nude mice. Two carcinomas caused lymph node metastases in two mice and another carcinoma single lung metastases in one tested mouse. DNA hypodiploidy, studied by flow cytometry, in one of the primary carcinoma was retained in vitro, and this cell line showed polyploidy during later passages. The other cell lines had a more unstable DNA profile, although a tendency for polyploidy was found. These findings were also illustrated in chromosome studies.
4296390|Human umbilical vein endothelial cells at confluence were subjected to steady shear flow. The effect of flow on the synthesis of fibronectin, its release into the medium, and incorporation into the extracellular matrix were investigated. The total content of fibronectin in endothelial cells exposed to flow was found to be lower than that in static controls after periods of 12 to 48 h. In the presence of cycloheximide there was no difference in the fibronectin content of sheared and unsheared cells. Our results suggest that the synthesis of fibronectin is inhibited by the flow-induced perturbation of endothelial cells.
4295971|Endogenous chicken muscle lectin isolated by lactose affinity chromatography inhibits myoblast fusion. Similar lectins isolated from embryonic brain, heart, and liver and from adult intestine exhibit the same ability. Elevated levels of any of these lectins canceled the inhibitory effect. Peanut agglutinin isolated by the same procedure had no effect at any concentration tested. Concanavalin A affected fusion only at high concentrations. Muscle lectin was shown to agglutinate myoblasts in microtiter plates, whereas exogenous addition in culture inhibited alignment as seen by time lapse microcinematography. Cell-to-cell communication between lectin-treated cells was shown by nucleotide exchange, and lectin-coated culture dishes did not affect cell attachment. Our evidence shows a lack of specificity to muscle, but suggests an aggregating capacity between cells, or possibly an interaction between the cell membrane and the extracellular matrix.
4295868|Neonatal rat heart cells cultivated in either of two different media which varied only in their serum supplements were transferred to chemically defined medium (Ham's F10) for 24 h before measuring a variety of parameters. The 24-h period of exposure to chemically defined medium was not sufficient to reverse the effects imposed on the cells by the serum used in the first phase of growth. The cells differed in rate and duration of action potentials and contractions. The initial serum composition affected the response of the cells to calcium deficiency. Studies involving the effects of pharmaceutical reagents such as isoproterenol were also influenced by the serum. In attempting to determine the cause and possible mechanism, it was found that mitochondrial membrane permeability for nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) was unchanged. Although the serum supplements differed in fatty acid composition, the fatty acid profiles of the cell phospholipids were relatively constant. We conclude that (a) the function of the cells is affected by the growth environment, particularly serum; (b) that a short exposure to a uniform chemically defined medium is not sufficient to reverse these effects; and (c) that the differences in effects are not the result of changes in the fatty acid composition of the whole cell phospholipids nor in mitochondrial membrane permeability as measured by NBT.
4296240|The process of phagocytosis in cultured human retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells was observed after more than 2 h of incubation with human outer segments and latex microspheres. Fingerlike microvilli were attached to outer segments and entwined around both its ends. The microvilli enveloped the outer segment and cut into the membranous structure, and the same process as that seen in in vivo shedding was observed. The looplike disk membranes and the whole of the outer segment were ingested into the cytoplasm and degraded by the lysosome. Latex microspheres were also ingested into the cytoplasm so as to be enveloped in many fingerlike microvilli. Microfilaments were concentrated in the vicinity of latex microspheres and outer segments, and latex microspheres were placed between two microtubules. Furthermore, when latex microspheres and outer segments were ingested into the cytoplasm, the dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) contained materials of high electron density and attached ribosomes increased. The rER of the cultured human RPE cells seemed to show a high level of protein synthesis during the phagocytic process. It was observed that cytoskeletons, such as microfilaments and microtubules, and lysosomes had important functions in the phagocytic process, and that there were basically no differences among the objects phagocytized by the cultured RPE cells.
4295897| We have studied the capacity of a number of phosphate compounds to act in the double role as a phosphate source and a detoxifier of ferric chloride hydroxo compounds, i.e. as Fe(III) chelators. The tested compounds were: orthophosphate, trimetaphosphate, -glycerophosphate, -glycerophosphate, phytic acid, and phosphorylcholine; the test organism the ciliate protozoon Tetrahymena thermophila, an animal cell; and the nutrient medium was synthetic, consisting solely of low-molecular-weight compounds. We assessed growth rates of cells in two experimental series. First, phosphate-starved cells were exposed to the tested phosphate compound as the only phosphate source and the ferric chloride concentrations were varied stepwise from 0 to 1000 M. Second, we offered the cells orthophosphate as a phosphate source and selected phosphate compounds as chelators. The cell growth results allow the following conclusions: orthophosphate, trimetaphosphate, -glycerophosphate, and -glycerophosphate are excellent phosphate sources; trimetaphosphate, -glycerophosphate, -glycerophosphate, and phytic acid are excellent Fe(III) chelators; of the tested compounds trimetaphosphate, a-glycerophosphate, and -glycerophosphate are excellent in the double role as a phosphate source and a ferric chloride hydroxo detoxifier, i.e. as a Fe(III) chelator. 
4296561|Growth factors are known to play important roles in cellular proliferation and differentiation. However, little information is available concerning their roles in the earliest stages of mammalian development. The effect of physiologic levels of insulin, insulinlike growth factor-1, and insulinlike growth factor II (IGF-I and -II) on DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis in preimplantation stages of the mouse are described in this study. Quantitative studies of the incorporation of labeled thymidine, uridine, and methionine into trichloroacetic acid-insoluble material by different developmental stages of preimplantation mouse embryos labeled in vitro, indicate that physiologic levels of insulin stimulated DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis with significant effects observed first at the morula stage of development. In contrast, neither IGF-I nor IGF-II stimulated DNA, RNA, or protein synthesis to a significant degree under the same experimental conditions. These results suggest a functional role for insulin at the earliest stages of mammalian embryogenesis.
4295738|The purpose of this study was to compare the development of organotypic cultures in defined medium versus nutrient containing serum and embryo extract (EE). Explant cultures of cerebellum with or without locus ceruleus were grown in the Maximow system and monitored in the living state and with histological stains. Thinner explants, fibronectin and a more frequent feeding schedule were required to overcome the growth differences encountered using a defined medium. The final medium formulation was arrived at by evaluation of living cultures and consisted of a basal medium (Dulbecco's minimal essential medium), a number of hormones and other supplements, and a final glucose concentration of 750 mg %. Using a Golgi stain and histofluorescence, it was shown that the three major types of neurons - Purkinje, deep nuclear, and locus ceruleus - developed similarly in the defined medium and in serum-EE cultures. Myelination occurred in virtually all cerebellar cultures in defined medium and the onset was earlier than in serum-EE cultures. These results indicate that differentiation of oligodendroglia and maturation of neurons occur in a defined medium. Elimination of thyroid hormone delayed the maturation of the cultures, both neurons and myelin, by 3-4 days.
4296781|To study the regulation of human salivary-type gene expression we developed cell culture systems to support the growth and serial cultivation of salivary gland epithelial and fibroblastic cell types. We have established 22 independent salivary gland epithelial cell strains from parotid or submandibular glands of human or macaque origin. Nineteen strains were derived from normal tissues and three from human parotid gland tumors. Both the normal and the tumor-derived salivary gland epithelial cells could be serially cultivated with the aid of a 3T3 fibroblast feeder layer in a mixture of Ham's F12 and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's media supplemented with fetal bovine serum, calcium, cholera toxin, hydrocortisone, insulin, and epidermal growth factor. Salivary gland epithelial cells cultured under these conditions continued to express the genes for at least two acinar-cell-specific markers at early passages. Amylase enzyme activity was detected in conditioned media from cultured rhesus parotid epithelial cells as late as Passage 5. Proline-rich-protein-specific RNAs were detected in primary cultures of both rhesus and human parotid epithelial cells. Neither amylase enzyme activity nor PRP-specific RNAs were detected in fibroblasts isolated from the same tissues. In addition, salivary gland epithelial cells cultured under our conditions retain the capacity to undergo dramatic morphologic changes in response to different substrata. The cultured salivary gland epithelial cells we have established will be important tools for the study of salivary gland differentiation and the tissue-specific regulation of salivary-type gene expression.
4296751|Vascular smooth muscle cells were isolated from the aortas of spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats by use of the explant method on collagen gels. Clonal cell lines derived from these enriched populations possessed ultrastructural characteristics of vascular smooth muscle cells in culture; they grew in hill and valley configuration, immunostained with the muscle actin antibody HHF35, and failed to react with von Willebrand Factor VIII antibody. Fourteen clonal cell lines were characterized for growth and ligand binding characteristics. Large variations in growth rate and cell density at saturation were exhibited by clones of both strains. Similar variability was noted for specific binding of endothelial 1 and
4296737|Smooth muscle cell proliferation is an important feature of atherogenesis. Some works have hypothesized that a transformation of smooth muscle cells could arise during this pathological process. The present paper describes two spontaneously transformed cell lines of arterial smooth muscle cells (SMC) established from aortic media of adult rat. The cell lines have been designated V6 and V8; some of their morphologic, growth, and metabolic characteristics are described and compared to their parent cells. The two cell lines appeared distinct by their morphology and by their degree of transformation. V6 cells appeared as elongated spindle-shaped cells whereas V8 cells were spread cells with a cobblestone pattern. Karyotypes of both cell lines showed a high polyploidy level. V6 and V8 cell lines were immortalized and showed growth characteristics of transformed cells: low requirement of serum to grow, ability to form colonies in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice; V8 cells presented a higher malignancy than V6 cells. Both V6 and V8 cells exhibited characteristics of cultured arterial SMC: ultrastructure, alpha actin expression at the protein and mRNA level, prostacyclin production. The remarkably different morphologies of the V6 and V8 lines and their transformed phenotype suggest that these cell lines could be useful models to study SMC differentiation and proliferation with respect to atherosclerotic or hypertensive vascular diseases.
4296097|Inasmuch as it is known that the toxicity of anesthetic agents is potentiated by hypoxia and that the reductive metabolism of these agents results in the formation of lipid hydroperoxides, we investigated the toxicity of hydroperoxides under low-oxygen concentrations. We found that hypoxia exacerbates the toxicity of t-butyl hydroperoxide, shifting the dose-response curve of t-butyl hydroperoxide vs. lysis of hepatocytes approximately an order of magnitude to the left. Furthermore, although at the end of a 4-h exposure to
4295888|The mechanism of action of retinoid in reversing keratinization in hamster trachea is yet unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine if cellular retinoic acid binding protein (CRABP) is present in tracheal epithelium following incubation in serum-free, vitamin A-deficient culture medium for 10 days, and if the effectiveness of a retinoid in reversing keratinization in organ culture is correlated with its ability to compete for CRABP sites. The cytosol prepared from tracheal cultures contained CRABP at a concentration of 2.61 pmoles per mg protein. Of the four retinoids with carboxyl end group selected for the study, two of the biological active retinoids competed for the CRABP sites. However, no correlation was observed between the biological activity of the inactive retinoids and their ability to associate with the CRABP sites. These results indicate that even though the action of retinoid may be mediated by retinoid binding protein, it cannot be used as a sole predicator of retinoid response in hamster trachea.
4296583|Distinct, sequential events occurring during the destruction and simultaneous regrowth of human arterial smooth muscle cell (SMC) cultures infected with cytomegalovirus (CMV, AD169 strain) were characterized. The events were influenced by the typical phenotypic diversity reflecting relative states of differentiation of the SMC cultures. Progenitors of regeneration were a surviving population of small, undifferentiated or relatively undifferentiated SMCs. As these cells reached confluence focally, the number of cells reactive with antismooth muscle serum, i.e. differentiating, increased, and in some postconfluent foci the organization of SMCs resembled the topography of uninfected cultures. Thus, infected SMC cultures had a limited capacity to repopulate, to organize typically, and to differentiate. However, continuing cytopathic effects gradually destroyed much of the regrowth, and a relatively large, nondividing SMC with prominent cytoplasmic filaments, similar to SMCs in terminal, uninfected cultures, predominated. Infected cultures consisting overwhelmingly of the large terminal phenotype were far less productive of infectious CMV than cultures populated by SMCs with continuing capacity to divide. Gradually, cultures consisting of the terminal phenotype deteriorated as a result of sporadic cytopathic effects of CMV and an effect resembling "senescent" degeneration in uninfected, nondividing cultures in late passage. The infected, terminal phenotype could be a latent or persistent source of CMV antigen or nucleic acid-positive cells detected by different investigators in normal and in atheromatous, human tissue, assuming that it exists and survives for an extended period in vivo after infection of vascular SMC.
4295731|A culture model is described for the study of acetaldehyde (
20171513| Primary cultures of embryonic chick pectoral skeletal muscle were used to study calcium regulation of myoblast fusion to form multinucleated myotubes. Using atomic absorption spectrometry to measure total cellular calcium and the Ca-exchange method to determine free cellular Ca, our data suggest that only the free cellular calcium changes significantly during development under conditions permissive for myotube formation (0.9 mM external Ca). Increases in calcium uptake occurred before and toward the end of the period of fusion with the amount approximating 2 to 4 pmol per cell in mass cultures. If the medium [Ca] is decreased to 0.04 mM, as determined with a calcium electrode, a fusion-block is produced and free cell Ca decreased 5- to 10-fold. Removal of the fusion-block by increasing medium [Ca] results in a release of the fusion-block and an increase in cellular Ca to approximately 1 pmol per cell during fusion, and higher thereafter. Cation ionophore A23187 produced transient increases in cellular calcium and stimulated myoblast fusion and the final extent of myotube formation only when added at the onset of culture. Results suggest that transient increased calcium uptake alone is insufficient for fusion because critical cellular content in conjunction with permissive amounts of medium [Ca] must exist. The latter suggests further that cell surface Ca was also critical. 
4295869| Endothelial cells from autopsy and biopsy specimens from a variety of adult human vascular tissue were harvested by collagenase treatment and gentle swabbing of the lumenal surface. Nutrient medium MCDB 107 containing a partially purified brain-derived growth factor (5 g/ml), epidermal growth factor (10 ng/ml) and only 2% (v/v) fetal bovine serum supported clonal and long-term serial culture (17.6 to 26.1 cumulative population doublings) of endothelial cells from vena cava, thoracic aorta and tibial arteries at a 70% rate of success. Cumulative doublings of the cell population from eight cultures were inversely proportional to age of donor of the vascular tissue from which cells were isolated. Heparin had an enhancing effect on cell growth that varied with cell strain. Prostacyclin production of human adult endothelial cell cultures was stimulated by arachidonate and thrombin by 17 to 20 and 2 to 3-fold respectively. Endogenous and stimulated rates of prostacyclin production by human adult endothelial cells were 2 to 3 times that of human adult smooth muscle cells and 20 to 30 times that of human fibroblasts. 
4296887|Polymorphic DNA markers were used to identify eight sublines derived from HeLa. Using five highly polymorphic minisatellite DNA probes, these cell lines were distinguished and classified into six groups by Southern blot analysis. Polymorphic DNA markers, therefore, can provide a useful tool for monitoring genetic changes of a cell line during culture and for distinguishing sublines derived from the same origin.
4296039| Three new continuous cell lines were established from two species of marine fishes economically important in Asia. Perch (Lateolabrax japonicus) heart (PH), perch liver (PL), and grouper (Epinephelus amblycephalus) kidney (GK) lines were established in Eagle's minimum essential medium with 10% fetal bovine serum and have been subcultured over 120 times. The optimum growth temperature was 25 C for the PK and GK lines and 30 C for the PH line. The modal chromosome numbers for each cell line are: PH (49), PK (50), and GK (65). None of the lines was susceptible to the rhabdovirus infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) or channel catfish herpesvirus (CCV); however, all three cell lines were susceptible to a variety of fish birnaviruses, including infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV), the EVE eel virus, and newly isolated birnaviruses from a variety of fish and shellfish in Taiwan. 
4296227|Several SV40 transformed REF52 cell lines were found to accumulate 5 to 10 times more cholesteryl esters compared to their parent line REF52 when cultured in 10% serum. Under this culture condition, the cholesteryl ester to phospholipid ratio was 0.4:1 and 2.0:1 to 3.8:1 for normal and SV40 transformed cells, respectively. The mechanism underlying cholesteryl ester accumulation in SV40 transformed lines was investigated. We found that 1) the rate of the de novo cholesterol and cholesteryl ester synthesis was roughly equal in normal and transformed derivatives; 2) the accumulation of cholesteryl esters in the transformants would not occur when cultured in lipoprotein-deficient medium and reappeared upon their return to low density lipoprotein-containing medium; 3) the transformants expressed twice as many low density lipoprotein receptors and were less sensitive to LDL-induced receptor down regulation compared to their nontransformed counterparts. The results indicate that SV40 transformed lines exhibited an accelerated lipid uptake from the culture medium due to an altered regulation of low density lipoprotein receptor activity.
4296125|Protoplasts were isolated from oat (Avena sativa L.) leaves by the combination of highly purified preparations of pectin lyase, xylanase, and cellulase C
4296345|The growth-promoting substances in a non-dialyzable extract of Synechococcus elongatus var. on RPMI 8226 cells (a human myeloma cell line) were separated by gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography. By gel filtration with Sepharose 4B, the dialyzate was separated into two fractions. One fraction was green-colored (P-1) and the other was blue-colored (P-2). The P-2 fraction had a higher growth-promoting activity than P-1. By ion exchange chromatography, the P-2 fraction was separated into two blue-colored fractions of phycocyanin and allophycocyanin. Both biliproteins promoted the growth of RPMI 8226 cells; however, allophycocyanin was more active than phycocyanin.
4296813|Rat aortic endothelial cells were found to exhibit clonal variations in response to EGF stimulation in cell growth and prostacyclin synthesis. EGF-induced growth and prostacyclin synthesis appeared to be regulated in a coordinated manner in that a clone with a higher response to EGF growth stimulation also exhibited a higher response to EGF-stimulated prostacyclin synthesis. This observation implys a possible involvement of prostacyclin synthesis in some of the biological effects of EGF on vascular endothelial cells.
4295866|Human thyroid cells were grown and subcultured in vitro to examine their responses to known hormones and growth factors, and to serum. The cells were obtained from surgical specimens and were either neoplastic or nonneoplastic. The effects of culture conditions on cell growth were measured by changes in cell numbers and by stimulation of
4296300|The effect of hydrocortisone (HC) in modulating glucocorticoid receptors (GR) and sodiumpotassium adenosine triphosphatase (Na-K ATPase) activity was studied in primary cultures of immunoisolated murine proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTEC). Utilizing monoclonal antibody against stage-specific embryonic antigen-1, a homogeneous population of PTEC was obtained in high yield. The cells were cultured to confluence and further treated for 48 h in serum-free growth medium containing no HC (control); 50 nM HC; or 50 nM HC plus 20 nM of the antiglucocorticoid, RU 38486. PTEC treated with 50 nM HC had 56% of GR binding and 160% Na-K ATPase activity as compared to controls (P < 0.01). GR binding was abolished by incubation in RU 38486 whereas Na-K ATPase fell below control values (P < 0.05). Brief incubations of HC-treated PTEC with 0.5 mM ouabain resulted in a fall in GR binding without a change in Na-K ATPase activity. These data indicate that in PTEC, HC regulates GR binding and they suggest that stimulation of Na-K ATPase activity is a direct biological response to this receptor-hormone interaction. Thus, primary cultures of immunoaffinity-isolated PTEC offer a good model system for investigating the molecular basis underlying the regulation of GR binding and postreceptor events influenced by glucocorticoids.
4296285|Cultures of human diploid fibroblasts are heterogeneous in that a subpopulation interacts via high-affinity receptors with the globular head regions of the C1q complement protein. Growth and synthetic properties of these cells are characteristic of cells residing in healing wounds and inflammatory lesions. At these sites, fibroblasts are exposed to regulatory molecules such as complement components and factors released from blood platelets. We assessed the effects of native complement proteins and platelet-derived factors on proportions and phenotypic stability of high-affinity and low-affinity receptor cells generated from explants of adult and embryonic connective tissue, using radioligand binding assays and immunofluorescence analysis by flow cytometry. Fibroblasts expressing high-affinity C1q receptors could be generated from explants only when factors from platelets were present in the medium; native complement proteins were not essential. High-affinity receptor cells could be generated only from tissue; they could not be generated by incubating cultures of the low-affinity receptor phenotype in medium containing platelet-derived factors. High-affinity receptor cells, once established from explants in the presence of platelet-derived factors, persisted through many replications in the absence of platelets. We obtained the same fibroblast phenotypes from embryonic skin as from adult gingiva, but the proportion of high-affinity receptor cells from skin was much greater. We conclude that factors derived from platelets are essential for generating cultures containing fibroblasts expressing high-affinity C1q receptors, but not for their maintenance. High-affinity receptor cells may comprise a rapidly dividing subpopulation giving rise only to like progeny or to other, more differentiated cells.
4296938|Growth and differentiation of cells derived from the embryonic palate are critically dependent on the intracellular cAMP-mediated signal transduction pathway. Human embryonic palate mesenchymal (HEPM) cells have been widely used to examine the effect of teratogens on palatal tissue growth and differentiation, as well as a prescreen for environmental teratogens. This study examined responsiveness of HEPM cells to agents known to stimulate adenylate cyclase, characterized cAMP-dependent protein kinases (cAMP-dPK) (EC 2.7.1.37) and investigated to what extent HEPM cells reveal adaptational responses to cAMP at the level of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. HEPM cells exhibited a total cell cycle transit time of approximately 22 h and responded maximally, when confluent, to prostacyclin (PGI
4295801|Sodium butyrate causes proliferation arrest with a G2 (4C) DNA content and induces formation of tetraploid cells upon removal of the inhibitor, in rat 3Y1 diploid fibroblasts. We isolated tetraploid clones from the butyrate-treated 3Y1 cells with high efficiency; among 21 clones randomly isolated, 5 were pure diploid, 7 were mainly tetraploid with a small contaminating diploid population, and 7 were pure tetraploid. Among the pure tetraploid clones, two showed doubled chromosome numbers with slightly broader distributions than that seen in parental 3Y1 cells. Butyrate further induced polyploid formation in the tetraploid cells thus produced, but octaploid cells that resulted could not be maintained for prolonged cultivation. We found no difference between the tetraploid and the (parental and parallel isolated) diploid clones in terms of colony-forming ability, proliferation rate, and sensitivity to density-dependent inhibition of proliferation. These results suggest that doubling of chromosome number by itself does not cause a change in proliferation property. The tetraploid clones had lower average saturation densities possibly due to enlargement of cell size represented by higher cellular protein content.
4296284|Alteration of uninfected erythrocytes from Plasmodium (the malaria parasite)-infected blood remained an open question. In this study we compared the in vivo fatty acid compositions of control and uninfected monkey erythrocytes. A large (40%) increase in the linoleic acid level was observed, which was recovered mostly in neutral lipids. An in vitro system was developed to study medium-mediated alterations of cultured erythrocytes by Plasmodium falciparum. The increase in the linoleate level was reproduced in vitro and was also localized in the neutral lipid fraction, especially in triacylglycerols. Studies using proteolytic digestion and heat denaturation showed that a heat-labile serum protein is indispensable for the increase in the linoleate level of red cells treated with the supernatant of P. falciparum cultures. Both the function and the mechanism of this modification of uninfected erythrocytes still remain unknown.
4296237|A simple, disposable, biphasic cultivation chamber has been developed for respiratory tract epithelial cells. This chamber, the Whitcutt chamber, contains a movable, transparent, permeable gelatin membrane that can be employed either submerged in the culture medium, thereby feeding the cells by the traditional immersion method, or raised to the surface of the culture medium, to bring the apical surfaces of the cells into contact with air and provide nutrients only from below (basal feeding). The effects of biphasic cultivation on the growth and differentiation of respiratory tract epithelial cells from different sources have been studied in Whitcutt chambers. Primary hamster tracheal epithelial (HTE) cells grown to confluence with basal feeding developed a ciliated columnar morphology, with differentiated features (cilia and mucous granules) located in the apical region of the epithelial layer. These cells secreted mucinlike molecules from the apical surface (i.e. the surface in contact with air). Although the apical localization of differentiation features was greater, mucous cell differentiation achieved by basal feeding was quantitatively not greater than that achieved by continuous immersion feeding. Similarly, basal feeding did not alter the degree of epithelial cell differentiation in cultures derived from rat, rabbit, and monkey tracheas or from human bronchial and nasal tissues. In contrast, the differentiation of guinea pig tracheal epithelial cells in culture was significantly influenced by the feeding method employed. When fed basally, guinea pig tracheal epithelial cell cultures expressed various mucociliary functions with resemblance to mucociliary layers in vivo, whereas constantly immersed cultures seemed stratified and squamous. These results suggest that, at least for guinea pigs, the combination of feeding methods provided by the Whitcutt chamber can be used to achieve differentiated cultures of tracheal epithelial cells with a polarity of differentiation that is similar to that observed in intact airways in vivo.
4296206|Many research efforts require the accurate determination of cell density in vitro. However, physical cell counting is inaccurate, time-intensive and requires removal of the cells from their growth environment, thereby introducing a host of potential artifacts. The current studies document a very simple method of determining cell density in microtiter wells via DNA-enhanced fluorescence. Fixed cells are stained with the A-T intercalating DNA stains DAPI or Hoechst 33342 and then fluorescence is quantified in a plate fluorometer. Fluorescence is shown to be linearly related to cell density as determined by two physical counting methods. The validity of the method is established in determining serum-stimulated growth of smooth muscle cells and in mitogen-induced growth of endothelial cells. The fixed cells can be stored for prolonged periods, thus allowing time-course proliferation assays without interassay variations. The fixed cells are also suitable for determinations of antigens of interest by ELISA. This method is potentially valuable in many in vitro systems where the quantification of cell density and proliferation is necessary.
4296686|Mouse vaginal epithelial cells were isolated from intact 21-day-old BALB/cCrgl mice and cultured in a serum-free medium (
4296706|Human buccal epithelial cells have been reared from explants maintained in supplemented MCDB 153 medium. Primary epithelial outgrowths show typical structural features and uniformly express keratins; subunit analyses demonstrate expression of keratins 5, 6, 14, 16/17, and 19. The cells exhibit up to 6% colony forming efficiency and divide at about 0.8 population doublings per day on fibronectin/collagen-coated dishes at clonal density. Studies of markers of proliferation and differentiation in buccal epithelial cells indicate that epidermal growth factor, cholera toxin, retinoic acid, and pituitary extract each exhibit a distinctive ability to enhance growth and variably affect cell migration and cell surface area. Transforming growth factor
4296568|Embryogenic suspension cultures of the hardwood forest tree yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera) have the potential to produce millions of plantlets. However, low conversion frequencies limit the realization of this potential. Using 4 embryogenic yellow-poplar lines, we first tested the ability of somatic embryos, selected for their similarity to mature zygotic embryos, to convert to plantlets, then tested physical and chemical treatments for their effects on promoting maturation of somatic embryos and subsequent plantlet production. Embryos selected based on resemblance to mature zygotic embryos and transferred to a hormone-free basal medium without casein hydrolysate (CH) produced plantlets at a frequency of 63%. Populations of synchronized somatic embryos were obtained by repeated fractionation of liquid medium-cultured proembryogenic masses (PEMs) on stainless steel sieves. These fractionated embryos failed to mature properly when cultured in liquid basal medium, however. Development of embryos cultured in basal medium supplemented with
4296248|The relative roles of nucleus and cytoplasm in the induction and maintenance of the malignant state were studied. Cytoplasmic hybrid (cybrid) clones, derived from the fusion of cytoplasts from malignantly transformed cells to normal whole cells, produced tumors in 17% of the animals injected with them. Nuclear/cytoplasmic hybrid (reconstituted cell) clones, derived by fusion of cytoplasts from malignant cells with karyoplasts of normal cells, produced tumors in 97% of the animals injected. A unique aspect of this study is the fact that all of the cells utilized, both normal and malignantly transformed, were derived from an original cloned cell.
4295815|A major goal of our laboratory has been the development of primary culture systems that retain differentiated functions and responses characteristic of intact tissues in vivo. Specifically, we have developed cellular models of primary cultures of rat heart, liver, and kidney cells to explore the mechanisms by which drugs or chemicals may be toxic to key organs of the body and to develop new techniques by which xenobiotics may be evaluated or identified as potential toxicants to living systems. The purpose of this paper is to describe our rationale and approach to the study of target organ toxicology with in vitro cellular systems.
4296601|Interactions between bovine trophoblastic cell vesicles and bovine endometrial epithelial cells were investigated by light and electron microscopy and lectin histochemistry in a cell culture model of early blastocyst attachment. Primary lines of bovine endometrial epithelial cells were polarized by subculturing on substrata and maintaining cultures at the air-medium interface. Trophoblastic cell vesicles were obtained from elongated Day 14 blastocysts. In co-cultures, trophoblastic cell vesicles adhered to endometrial epithelial cells through microvillus interdigitation and formation of primitive membrane junctional complexes. After 3 d in co-culture, a multilayered cellular plaque formed at the trophoblastic cell-endometrial epithelial cell interface. The type of cells contributing to this local proliferative response could not be identified specifically as trophoblastic or endometrial cells, and areas of membrane fusion between cells were noted. Ultrastructural features of vesicle adhesion in cultures were similar to features of conceptus attachment in vivo. Lectins bound to apical membranes of trophoblastic cells and endometrial epithelial cells in all locations except contact sites between vesicles and endometrial cells. These findings suggest that local cellular proliferation and membrane fusion between trophoblastic and endometrial epithelial cells may be early events in conceptus implantation in the cow and these events can be reproduced in culture.
4296582|Primary rat alveolar type II cells and early passage rat lung fibroblasts were co-cultured on opposite sides of a collagen-coated polycarbonate filter. This is an approach to "model", in part, an alveolar wall to study mechanisms of cytotoxicity and translocation of bioactive materials from the alveolar space to the lung interstitium. Type II cells were recovered from adult rat (Fischer 344) lungs by enzyme digestion and "panning". Lung fibroblasts were separated from the same species, cultured initially in 10% fetal bovine serum and used in the co-culture system at early passage. The type II cells formed a monolayer of dedifferentiated epithelium which provided a barrier on the upper side of the collagen (human type IV)-coated filter. The fibroblasts on the bottom of the filter replicated logarithmically in the presence of serum, could be rendered quiescent in defined medium and then returned to rapid growth phase with the reintroduction of serum. The intact epithelial monolayer excluded trypan blue, albumin, platelet-derived growth factor, and
4296282|A serum-free, hormone and attachment factor supplemented culture for rat H4 hepatoma cells was established. In the defined medium (Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's + Ham's F12 + insulin, transferrin, fibronectin liver cell growth factor, and sodium selenite), H4 cells grew equally well as in 10% fetal bovine serum supplemented medium. H4 cells in either defined or serum-containing culture conditions produce transferrin but not albumin or alpha-fetoprotein. In this paper we have studied the effect of various hormones and pressor peptides on the production of angiotensinogen by H4 cells cultured in defined conditions. Only glucocorticoid hormone had a significant effect on the production of angiotensinogen, whereas other hormones previously reported to exert their effect on angiotensinogen production had little or no effect.
4296290|Mature acini with attached segments of intercalated ducts were dissociated from the submandibular glands of rats and grown in primary culture on gels of reconstituted rat tail collagen. Screening evaluations indicated that the following new conditions promoted a substantial improvement in the survival of the cells as compared with our previously reported results: a) adding dexamethasone, epidermal growth factor, and retinoic acid to the medium, b) decreasing the fetal bovine serum in the medium to 1%; and c) adjusting the oxygen in the gas phase to 50%. A detailed evaluation, including light and electron microscopy and biochemical analysis, then provided the following observations. The acinar-ductal complexes enlarged throughout the 22-d culture period, and after 4 d sheets comprised of a one- to two-cell thick layer of acinar cells spread among the complexes. Synthesis of mucin, and its secretion in response to norepinephrine or cAMP, dropped precipitously to very low levels after 2 d. However, synthesis of DNA, general proteins, and glycoproteins dropped only transiently after 2 d, rising to levels approaching those of freshly dissociated complexes by 22 d. These data indicate that a shift occurred from the synthesis of large quantities of secretory proteins and glycoproteins, especially mucins, during the first 2 d in culture, to other materials thereafter. Overall, the new culture conditions resulted in substantial growth and survival of acinar cells through 22 d in primary culture, but the important acinar characteristic of the synthesis and secretion of mucins was essentially lost after 4 d.
4295816|Evaluation of the potential adverse human health effects of low-level chronic exposure to heavy metals is dependent on the basic knowledge of the cellular and molecular toxicology of these metals. The use of various cell culture systems has greatly facilitated our knowledge of the cellular effects. Inasmuch as most of the acute and chronic toxic effects of metals occur primarily on the renal proximal tubules, the development of a rat kidney epithelial cell culture has provided a unique system to study the uptake and mechanism of toxicity of metals and their intracellular binding ligands. In the presence of D-valine, fibroblast growth was retarded and a primary epithelial monolayer culture was selectively grown from rat kidney cells. A distinct difference in the uptake of chemically similar divalent metals, such as Pb
4295900|A simple yet effective method (iso-density percoll centrifugation) has been developed for consistently preparing isolated rat liver parenchymal cells with over 98% initial viability. The method has been applied to cells isolated by a variety of collagenase digestion techniques. This procedure involves the low-speed centrifugation (50 x g) of the initial cell suspension through a percoll medium having a density of 1.06 g/ml and results in the separation of single and viable parenchymal cells from cell aggregates, debris, and nonparenchymal cells. The enriched parenchymal cells have been shown to be superior to untreated cells by a number of criteria including: preparation homogeneity, cell morphology, maintenance of cytochrome P-450, hormonal responsiveness (measured by the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase after treatment with glucagon or dexamethasone, or both), plasma membrane integrity (determined by both trypan blue exclusion and leakage of glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase), and the DNA repair capability after treatment with benzo[a]pyrene or 2-acety laminofluorene.
4296083|The growth of bovine aortic smooth muscle and endothelial cells was studied after exposure to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or its major metabolite, dimethyl sulfone (
20171383| An improved serum-free medium has been developed that supports growth of rat mammary tumor line 64-24 with far less protein supplementation and with a much smaller inoculum than previously possible. An initial survey showed that MCDB 202 supported clonal growth with 1% dialyzed serum. The remaining serum was then replaced with 5 g/ml insulin, 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF), 1 g/ml hydrocortisone, 50 ng/ml ovine prolactin, and 5 g/ml liposome B (a mixture of soy lecithin, sphingomyelin, cholesterol, vitamin E, and vitamin E acetate in liposome form). Insulin and EGF are required and growth is improved by hydrocortisone and prolactin. Estradiol is stimulatory in the absence of liposome B. With adequate iron supplementation, transferrin has no effect. Liposome B increase growth rate substantially. Most of the growth stimulation can be replaced with phosphatidylethanolamine or sphingomyelin. 
4296136|Maintainable, highly embryogenic suspension cultures of a wild relative of cotton (Gossypium klotzschianum Anderss.) have been obtained. Callus with no apparent organization was used to establish the liquid culture. Callus growth conditions as well as suspension medium composition were optimized. A visual selection scheme was beneficial for the maintenance of the embryogenic suspension. These liquid cultures have been maintained for over 10 mo. with no loss in embryogenic capacity. The somatic embryos developed after transfer of the embryogenic tissues to a hormone-free liquid medium.
4296256|Collagen gel culture of rat mammary epithelial cells was used as an in vitro assay system for determination of the therapeutic efficacy of three cytotoxic agents commonly used in the treatment of human breast cancer, namely 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), methotrexate, and Adriamyin (ADR). The same three drugs were also evaluated in vivo, and a good correlation was obtained between the results in these two systems. A 9-d culture was shown to be more reliable than a 12-d culture, because nondrug-related cell mortality became a confounding factor after 12 d. Although further experiments are necessary, it is suggested that collagen gel culture may well prove to be a useful assay system for determination of sensitivity of tumor cells to cytotoxic drugs with possible clinical applications in the choice of treatment modality administered to cancer patients.
4296515| A serum-free primary culture system has been developed which allows for three-dimensional growth and differentiation of normal rat mammary epithelial cells (RMECs) within an extracellular matrix preparation. RMECs were isolated from mammary glands of immature 50- to 60-d-old rats and the organoids embedded within a reconstituted basement membrane matrix prepared from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm sarcoma. Cells grown in a serum-free media consisting of phenol red-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-F12 culture medium containing 10 g/ml insulin, 1 g/ml prolactin, 1 g/ml progesterone, 1 g/ml hydrocortisone, 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF), 1 mg/ml fatty-acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA), 5 g/ml transferrin, and 5 M ascorbic acid proliferated extensively (15- to 20-fold increase in cell number as quantitated using the MTT dye assay) over a 2- to 3-wk culture period and remained viable for months in culture. Several types of colonies were observed including the alveolarlike budding cluster which predominates at later times in culture, units with no or various degrees of ductal-like projections, stellate colonies, and two-and three-dimensional web units. Optimal proliferation required insulin, prolactin, progesterone, EGF, and bovine serum albumin. Hydrocortisone was not required for proliferation, but the colonies developing in its absence were morphologically altered, with a high frequency of colonies that formed an extensively branched network with many fine projections. Cell proliferation was also dependent on substratum, with significantly less growth and development occurring in RMECs grown within a type I collagen gel matrix compared to RMECs grown within the reconstituted basement membrane. In conjunction with other studies demonstrating extensive differentiation as well as proliferation, it is concluded that this model should prove to be an important tool to study the hormonal regulation of the growth and development of rat mammary cells. 
4296279|A Brazilian stock of clone C17 of the IB-RS-2 porcine kidney cell line which was contaminated with hog cholera virus (HCV) was cloned. One clone designated IB-RS-2 D10 was determined to be free of HCV, 20 other viruses, and Mycoplasma. IB-RS-2 D10 cells possessed the same viral susceptibility pattern as the contaminated parent cells to the viruses of foot-and-mouth disease, swine vesicular disease, vesicular exanthema of swine, transmissible gastroenteritis, and several other viruses. The IB-RS-2 D10 cells had a median chromosome count of 34, were morphologically epithelioid cells, and were resistant to HCV infection. Freedom from HCV affords advantages for vaccine production and avoids laboratory contamination.
4296275|Proliferative and differentiative responses to various doses of vitamin A (VA) were studied in the predifferentiated cells of a fetal Syrian hamster pulmonary epithelial line (M3E3/C3), which were cultured on a collagen gel in a hormone-supplemented medium. These predifferentiated cells possessed well-developed endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus. At VA doses higher than
4296369|Embryonic disks were microsurgically isolated from adjacent trophoblast tissue and cultured for varying periods in vitro. During the first 24 h of culture, vesicles (1 to 4/disk) composed of mesoderm and endoderm formed from the ventral surface. In the subsequent culture period, the vesicles continued to increase in size and by 96 h in vitro, most originally multivesiculated explants possessed a single vesicle formed by delamination and coalescence of smaller vesicles. Scanning electron microscopy revealed the formation of grooves and ridges in abnormal attempts at differentiation by the embryonic ectoderm. Endoderm comprising the outer tissue layer of the vesicle underwent a gradual alteration in surface morphology during in vitro culture. Initially flat, with a paucity of microvilli, these cells became dome-shaped with an abundance of microvilli. In addition, they became highly secretory as revealed by the presence of numerous secretory droplets at their surface. After culture for periods of up to 10 d, several explants displayed areas containing pulsating tissue, with contractions occurring at a rate of 20 to 30/minute, indicative of mesoderm differentiation. Culture of porcine isolated embryonic disk in vitro should enhance investigations into the regulation of germ layer formation and differentiation and assist in determining the tissue source of conceptus secretory products.
4296529|We have compared hormone production by early gestation and term human placental trophoblasts cultured in Ham's F10 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum with that by cells cultured in serum-free HB102 medium. Mean daily production of progesterone on Days 3 to 7 was approximately 25% less by both early gestation and term cells cultured in HB102 as compared to Ham's F10, but production was maintained at a stable level for at least 7 d longer than the cells in Ham's. Estradiol production from 10
4296266|The recognized need for epithelial cell culture models for cystic fibrosis (CF) research has resulted in ongoing efforts to improve normal and CF submandibular duct cell culture capabilities. The duct is most likely the site of the CF defect in this and other exocrine glands. In a previous report conditions required for the successful primary explant culture of normal and CF submandibular glands were outlined; however, terminal keratinization and involution of these cultures were recognized as severe limiting factors to their utilization in CF research. This report explores the effects of calcium concentrations in the medium, growth factor supplements, and matrix components on growth and differentiation of these cultures. Results of the study further confirm the ductal origin of cells in the outgrowth and demonstrate that progressive keratinization is initiated only after cells proliferate beyond the environment of the explant fragment. Keratinization with subsequent multilayering, desmosome formation, and involution in the cell outgrowth are governed in degree by the calcium concentration of the growth medium. Upon reduction of medium calcium to 0.1 mM concentration, the cells proliferate as a monolayer and subculture through 8 to 9 passages and retain the capacity to undergo ductlike differentiation.
4296037|A new, nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line, HMT-3522, has been established from fibrocystic breast tissue. Cells were explanted and propagated in chemically defined medium including insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, estradiol, prolactin, and Na-selenite. The epithelial nature of the cell line was established by immunocytochemical detection of cytokeratins. Moreover, electronmicroscopy revealed monolayers of polarized cells connected by desmosomes and provided with apical microvilli. Milk fat globule membrane antigen, specific for the apical membrane domain of normal, luminal breast epithelial cells, was expressed only in confluent cultures where some cells overlaid others, indicating "stem cell"-like properties. After 25 to 30 passages, the cells are diploid with a few marker chromosomes and loss of chromosomes in the D-group. The cells are nontumorigenic in athymic mice; they lack estrogen receptors, and estradiol does not stimulate growth. The HMT-3522 cell line may represent a useful model for the study of breast cell differentiation and carcinogenesis in vitro.
4296194|The capacity of asbestos to mediate transfection was tested in a rapid and relatively simple system: picornavirus RNAs and mammalian cells in vitro. Thirteen asbestos samples, including amosite, anthophyllite, chrysotile, and crocidolite, 4 picornaviruses (poliovirus 1 and 2, echovirus 7, and encephalomyocarditis virus), and 4 cell lines (CLI, chimpanzee liver; KB, human carcinoma; eta, monkey kidney; NIH 3T3, mouse embryo) were tested. The results showed that all asbestos samples mediated transfection and that all cell lines were transfectible by viral RNA with asbestos. Transfection was much greater with asbestos added to the viral RNA inoculum than to the cells before or after the RNA. Transfection was directly proportional to asbestos concentration. Initiation of transfection events was rapid, with half becoming irreversible by washing 2 min postinoculation. DNA in the inoculum strongly interfered with asbestos-mediated transfection by the RNA but was ineffective when added, with or without asbestos, to the cells before or after the inoculum. Asbestos compared with six classical "insoluble" facilitators (bentonite, calcium phosphate, chromic oxide, ferric oxide, kaolin, talc) was of intermediate rank in transfection mediation. It is hypothesized that the prominence of asbestos in carcinogenesis is due to a combination of properties, including transfection mediation as well as chromosome mutagenicity, fiber dimensions, biological durability, hydrocarbon transport, and prevalence.
4295843|A serum-free medium has been devised that supports the proliferation and differentiation of primary cultures of rat skeletal muscle satellite cells for up to 4 d. The medium consists of a mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and MCDB-104 plus insulin, dexamethasone, pituitary fibroblast growth factor, Deutsch fetuin, and linoleic acid. In addition to promoting the formation of myotubes from satellite cells, a decrease in fibroblast contamination of these cultures was observed when cultures grown in serum-free medium were compared to cultures grown in serum-containing medium.
20171482|We report a culture scheme in which human epiphyseal chondrocytes lose their differentiated phenotype in monolayer and subsequently reexpress the phenotype in an agarose gel. The scheme is based on a method using rabbit chondrocytes. Culture in monolayer allowed small quantities of cells to be amplified and provided a starting point to study expression of the differentiated human chondrocyte phenotype. The cells cultured in monolayer produced type I procollagen, fibronectin, and small noncartilaginous proteoglycans. Subsequent culture in agarose was associated with the acquisition of typical chondrocyte ultrastructural features and the synthesis of type II collagen and cartilage-specific proteoglycans. The switch from the nonchondrocyte to the differentiated chondrocyte phenotype occurred under these conditions between 1 and 2 wk of agarose culture and was not necessarily homogeneous throughout a culture. This culture technique will facilitate direct investigation of human disorders of cartilage that have been addressed in the past by alternative approaches.
4296074|Embryonic chick sternal chondrocytes were cultured either within three dimensional gels of type I collagen, type II collagen or agar, or as monolayers on plastic dishes coated with air-dried films of these matrix macromolecules. It was observed that cell shape and cell growth varied markedly between the different culture conditions. Flattened monolayers of cells on plastic or films of type I or type II collagen, proliferated more rapidly and reached a higher final cell density per culture than the more rounded cells found in the cultures on agar films or within three-dimensional gels. Biosynthetic studies demonstrated that in addition to the synthesis of type II collagen, all the cultures were producing collagen types IX and X. Chondrocytes cultured on plastic or films of the different matrix macromolecules all showed a similar expression of types IX and X collagen, independent of whether they displayed a flattened or round cell morphology. In contrast, marked variations in the proportions of the minor collagens, particularly type X collagen, were observed when the cells were cultured within three-dimensional gels. The data suggest that direct interaction of the cell surface with matrix constituents displaying a particular spatial array could be an important aspect in the control of type IX and X collagen expression by chondrocytes.
4295858|Radial histophysioiogic gradient culture uses thin walled, permeable collagen tubes to house inocula in the form of either tissue explants, aggregates of cells, or dissociated cells. The outgrowth from these inocula spreads on the inner surface of the cylindrical tube, completely lining the lumen. Metabolites are exchanged through the wall of the collagen tube by diffusion from the pool of medium surrounding the cylinder. Urothelial cells form organoid stratified epithelium. A histophysioiogic gradient occurs with the basal surface of the epithelium attached to the collagen wall. At this interface, for normal bladder, the initiation of epithelial renewal is seen in the basal zone, as shown by incorporation of tritiated thymidine. The simulation of conditions in nature is attained by the exchange of metabolites between the pool of medium and the basal zone of the epithelium. NBT-II appears as two concentric stratified epithelia. Isotopic labelling is seen throughout the epithelium attached to the collagen membrane. In the superficial stratified epithelium remnants of nuclei are seen without isotopic labelling. Preparation of living cultures and, after fixation, of histologic sections is technically easy.
4296067| This study investigates the nutritional requirements of Xenopus laevis neural crest cells and melanophores developing in vitro. A comparison is made between the growth and differentiation of cells in serum-containing medium and a chemically defined, serum-free medium that we have designed. Our chemically defined medium is more efficient than serum-supplemented medium in promoting proliferation of these cells. Several supplements are required to enhance culture development. These include insulin, -melanocyte stimulating hormone, somatotropin, luteotrophic hormone, linoleic acid, uridine, and putrescine. In addition, collagen and fibronectin provide the most conducive environment tested for cell migration and adhesion. 
20171369|The effects of 2,5 hexanedione (2,5 HD), a metabolite of n-hexane, were investigated in different in vitro systems. A human mammary carcinoma cell line, a human melanoma cell line, and fetal mouse neuronal cells in primary culture were considered. Light and electron microscopic observations demonstrated clearly that changes in cell proliferation can be detected. Furthermore, morphologic differentiative phenomena characterized by a noticeable increase in cell protrusions and dendriticlike processes can occur. Differences in the features of these processes were also detected between the different cell lines. These data can indicate non-neuronal cells as possible further targets of the toxicant. The possibility could be hypothesized that toxic neuropathies are generalized disorders, being neuronal system exceptionally vulnerable to 2,5 HD. Moreover, results obtained suggest that the sensitivity of in vitro systems could represent a useful tool in studying the mechanisms of action of the neurotoxicant 2,5 HD.
4296937|Normal cells in culture respond to cell density by altering their proliferation rates and their pattern of protein expression. Primary avian tendon (PAT) cells are a case in point where procollagen production increases ~ 10-fold at high cell density while proliferation almost ceases. In an earlier report focusing on the cell density regulation of procollagen expression, the signaling mechanism communicating the presence of other cells was shown to have the characteristics of a loosely bound component of the cell layer. Extending these studies to the cell density regulation of proliferation, the cell density signal (CDS) was again shown to be altered by medium agitation, stimulating cell division. Agitation, however, was only disruptive to cell signaling when there was a high ratio of medium to cells. When sufficient cells were present, agitation was less effective. Therefore, the CDS controlling procollagen production and the CDS controlling the inhibition of growth seemed to be linked because the signaling mechanism is disrupted in a parallel manner by agitation. However, the proliferative response of PAT cells is more complex in that there is also a positive influence at moderate cell density ($>2 \times 10^4$ cells/cm
4296260|Primary cultures of Sertoli cells maintained in conventional cultures on plastic culture vessels do not retain many of the structural and functional properties of their in vivo counterparts. Sertoli cell phenotype is better maintained by incorporating certain environmental parameters, intrinsic to the testis, into the Sertoli cell culture system. These environmental parameters include a) high cell density, b) a unique extracellular matrix, c) a semipermeable support between the basal plasma membrane of the cells and blood-derived nutrients in the interstitium, d) chemically distinct microenvironments at the apical and basal surfaces of the cells, and e) cell-to-cell interactions among Sertoli cells and other testicular cell types. Using three variations of Sertoli cell culture we have demonstrated the importance of each of these environmental parameters in obtaining a better Sertoli cell culture model.
4296830|We report the first use of nutrient mist bioreactor (NMB) technology to culture animal cells. The nutrient mist approximated the amebocyte stem tissue's natural environment, which is a thin layer of fluid in the gill leaflets of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus. NMB culture was tried in an attempt to increase production of amebocytes, which are the source of the Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL), the basis for a sensitive and commercially valuable endotoxin assay. Amebocyte growth in the nutrient mist bioreactor is comparable to growth in liquid medium. However, the current design of the bioreactor presents problems for primary cultures such as ours where a pyrogen-free environment is necessary and fungal decontamination is difficult.
4296261|Cadmium (Cd) induces testicular tumors of interstitial cell (IC) origin in rats which can be prevented by zinc (Zn). Zn-induced synthesis of metallothionein (MT), a metal-binding protein with a high affinity for Cd, is thought to account for tolerance to Cd in most tissues by sequestration of Cd. However, the mechanism of Zn inhibition of Cd-induced carcinogenesis in the testes is unknown. Our studies with ICs obtained by collagenase dispersion of rat testes, indicate the levels of the Cd-binding protein in ICs are unaltered by Zn. This testicular protein also was found to differ from MT in amino acid content and to have a lower affinity for Cd. Thus, MT does not seem to be involved in protection of ICs against Cd carcinogenesis. Altered Cd toxicokinetics as a possible explanation for Zn-induced tolerance was therefore explored. Cd uptake into isolated ICs had passive diffusion and nonpassive (carrier mediated or active transport or both) components. The nonpassive component of Cd accumulation was markedly reduced by addition of Zn in vitro, indicative of competition for uptake at the cellular level. These results indicate that toxicokinetic alterations leading to reduced Cd accumulation may play an important role in Zn induction of tolerance to Cd carcinogenesis in the testes.
4296976| We examined the effects of all-trans retinoic acid (RA) on (12) fucosyltransferase activity and sensitivity to LAK-mediated cytotoxicity in two rat colon carcinoma cell lines differing by their glycosylation state and their tumorigenic potential. RA induced a decrease in (12) fucosyltransferase activity in the more tumorigenic variant PROb. Fucosyltransferase mRNA levels were not affected by RA treatment in PROb cells, suggesting a posttranscriptional control. This inhibition was accompanied by a decreased expression of fucosylated membrane glycoconjugates and by a significant increase in the sensitivity to LAK-mediated cytotoxicity. REGb cells, which exhibited a very low enzymatic activity and very few fucosylated glycoconjugates, were more sensitive to LAK-lysis than PROb cells and were not affected by RA treatment. 
4296140| Insect cell lines are not well-suited to colony formation in liquid medium following low-density cell plating. The present studies demonstrate that the time of addition of fetal bovine serum to the culture medium and the number of -irradiated feeder cells added to each plate are important factors in developing a useful colony formation assay. TN-368 lepidopteran and WR69-DM-1 dipteran cell lines were used for these experiments. Both cell types display increased plating efficiencies if serum is added to the medium one or more days prior to plating as compared to adding serum immediately before plating. Growth curves obtained by seeding cells at higher densities also indicate that cell growth is slightly better if serum is added one or more days before seeding. These findings are especially important for survival and toxicity studies because the results demonstrate that even seemingly minor factors involved in cell survival assays may benefit treated cells to a greater degree than untreated control cells, thus providing an erroneous assessment of cell survival. 
4295909| We developed a rapid bioassay to determine in vitro drug stabilities in the clonogenic assay. The in vitro half-lives of 11 standard antitumor agents, actinomycin D, Adriamycin, bleomycin, cis-Platinum, dacarbazine, 5-fluorouracil, melphalan, mitomycin C, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrpsourea (BCNU), vinblastine, and vincristine, and four investigational drugs, Aziridinylbenzoquinone (AZQ) (NSC 182986), diamminecyclobutane-dicarboxylatoplatinum (CBDCA) (NSC 241240), Dihydroxyanthracenedione dihydrochloride (DHAD) (NSC 301739), and 1-(2-chlorpethyl)-3-(2,6-dioxo-3-piperidyl-1-nirosourea) (PCNU) (NSC 95466), were determined under conditions of the clonogenic assay as well as under storage conditions at -40 and -196 C. BCNU and AZQ at -40C had t 1/2 of 4.7 d and 2.5 d, respectively. All other drugs were stable at -40 and -196 C with t 1/2 >6 wk. Under assay conditions at 37 C, actinomycin D, bleomycin, dacarbazine, 5-fluorouracil, mitomycin C, vinblastine, vincristine, and DHAD were stable, with t 1/2 >14 d. CBDCA, AZQ, Adriamycin, cis-Platinum, melphalan, BCNU, and PCNU had t 1/2 of 94,72, 29, 18.5, 1.8, 1, and 0.5 h, respectively. 
4296268|To determine if the medium osmolality of plant protoplast cultures in 24-well tissue culture plates changes sufficiently during the culture period to affect development of the protoplasts the osmolality and the division of the protoplasts was monitored within the plates over a three week period. Large increases in osmolality were measured in cell-free experiments indicating that overall evaporation from the plates was substantial. The amount of evaporation from a given culture well depended on the position of the well within the plate; three microenvironments corresponding to the corner, edge, and middle positions of the plate consistently developed. Water placed in the recessed area between each culture well moderated the desiccation of the medium but did not eliminate the formation of microenvironments. The osmolality of the medium in protoplast cultures was higher than in the cell-free experiments but similar trends in terms of plate position were recorded. After 3 weeks of incubation of plates with water added between the wells, the osmolality of the medium in the protoplast cultures had increased 209 mOsm in the corner wells, had increased 77 mOsm in the edge wells, and had decreased 39 mOsm in the middle wells. As a result, there was a three-fold higher incidence of division of the protoplasts in the middle wells than in the corner wells. The non-uniformity of medium osmolality in protoplast cultures within tissue cultures well plates is important in experimental design, in the reproducibility of procedures between different laboratories, and in the preparation of replenishment medium for protoplast cultures to minimize osmotic shock.
4296859|To establish a model system for preclinical radioimmunotherapy studies, attempts were made to graft 16 different human breast carcinoma cell lines into BALB/c nu/nu (nude) mice. Nine produced serially transplantable tumors growing at a variable rate, whereas seven failed to do so. Conversely, three new cell lines were established in monolayer culture from transplantable human breast tumors in nude mice. Twelve selected tumors and their corresponding cell lines were characterized for DNA ploidy, % S-phase, and breast epithelial mucin expression by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. A wide diversity of these cellular characteristics were found in that each tumor was unique and distinct from the others. DNA ploidy differed among the tumors but was not affected by switching between in vitro to in vivo growth. Some tumors expressed similar levels of the breast mucin both in vitro and in vivo, whereas most expressed lower levels as transplantable tumors. There was a good correlation between immunohistochemical and flow cytometric determination of surface and cytoplasmic mucin expression, and with both techniques estrogen and progesterone receptor positive tumors had significantly higher levels of mucin expression than receptor negative tumors. These 12 transplantable breast tumors, with their corresponding cell lines, provide an excellent model system for testing radioimmunotherapy and other therapeutic reagents because they exhibit diverse phenotypic characteristics that represented a mini-population of breast cancer patients' tumors, allowing assessment of the effect of therapy when confronted with different breast tumors' genotype and phenotype.
4295733|The differentiation of epithelial tissue in organ cultures of murine buccal mucosa, various human oral mucosa, and human newborn foreskin was found to be dependent on the calcium concentration of the culture media. In low calcium medium (
4296321|To define the role of endogenously synthesized cholesterol in the differentiation of adrenocortical cells in primary culture, fetal rat adrenal cells were cultured in the presence of exogenous cholesterol (serum-supplemented medium) or in the absence of it (serum-free medium or lipoprotein-free medium). Ultrastructurally the cells had features of glomerulosa cells: mitochondria were oval or rod shaped with lamellar inner membranes. The amount of smooth endoplasmic reticulum was small, and lipid droplets were few. When the cells were cultured in serum-free medium some intracytoplasmic vacuoles were seen. The undifferentiated zona glomerulosa-like cells secreted low amounts of corticosterone and 18-OH-deoxycorticosterone (18-0H-D0C) in all three media (serum-supplemented medium, serum-free medium, and lipoprotein-free medium). Stimulation of the adrenocortical cells with ACTH induced the ultrastructural features of differentiated zona fasciculata-like cells. Mitochondrial inner membranes were well developed in lipoprotein-free medium, but not in serum-free medium. The amount of intracellular lipids was increased in both media devoid of cholesterol. In the ACTH stimulated cultures the presence of exogenous cholesterol resulted in increased secretions of corticosterone and 18-0H-D0C. In the absence of an exogenous source of cholesterol, the amounts of steroids secreted were only half of that secreted in the presence of serum-supplemented medium. Endogenously synthesized cholesterol is sufficient for the morphologic differentiation of fetal rat adrenocortical cells under ACTH stimulation. However, without exogenously provided cholesterol, the steroid production accounts only for half of the maximal output achieved using serum-supplemented medium.
4296189| Rat liver epithelial cells are induced to migrate by epidermal growth factor (EGF) or transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-) in serum-free medium supplemented with insulin. Immunohistological staining of the migration tracks containing laminin and fibronectin has allowed a quantitative analysis of the process. The growth factor-induced migration is relatively slow, but very efficient. Between 24 and 48 h after exposure to EGF (or TGF-), 50 to 70% of the cells have migrated away from their site of initial attachment and spreading. This delayed effect of the interaction of the receptor with its ligands is associated with changes in gene expression, but is not associated with a stimulation of cell proliferation. In serum-free medium supplemented with insulin, the cells secrete six major proteins, as revealed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The media of cultures supplemented with insulin plus EGF (or TGF-) contain in addition two new proteins and an increased amount of fibronectin. One secreted protein is synthesized in significantly reduced amounts. The most conspicuously EGF-induced protein (EIP-1; Mr 47 000) is detected within 2 h, depends on the continued presence of the growth factor, and has not been detected as bound to the substratum. The stringent regulation of EIP-1 suggests that this gene product might participate in the modulation of the changes induced by the growth factor. The system is being used for the further analysis of the regulation of gene expression by EGF and of the migration of normal and neoplastically transformed epithelial cells. 
4296942| The ability of different Fc receptors (Fc R) on IgG-mediated cytotoxicity for human epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells bearing large number of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs) was examined by using two isotypes (IgGl and IgG2a) of murine monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) against EGFR in the presence of human monocytes and granulocytes. Two MoAbs (225 and LA1) of the IgG1 isotype exhibited effective cytolytic activity for A431 cells with human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) rather than with human mononuclear cells (MNC). In contrast, two MoAbs (528 and 579) of the IgG2a-isotype lysed the cells less effectively with PMN than with MNC. Anti-Fc R II (CDw32) MoAb 2E1 inhibited the IgG1-mediated cytotoxicity by PMN, and anti-Fc R HI (CD16) MoAb 80H3 did not inhibit the IgG2a-mediated cytotoxicity by MNC. Under these conditions, antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity by mouse MoAb IgGl isotypes resulted from antibody binding to the Fc R II (CDw32) of PMN. 
4295940|The in vitro proliferations rates and ptoteoglycans synthesized by adult human gingival fibroblasts derived from six age- and sex-matched donors of healthy and chronically inflamed gingiva were analyzed. Fibroblasts from inflamed gingiva demonstrated a slower growth rate than cells from healthy tissue. The rate of incorporation of
4296548|Oscillations in glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activities were recorded in suspensions of intact human red blood cells (RBCs) exposed to various light regimens. The periods of these oscillations, defined as "long ultradian," ranged between 13 and 18 h regardless of light regimen. The patterns of enzymatic activities were the same when assayed at each time point, in full hypotonic hemolysates, and membrane-free hemolysates. However, if hemolysates were prepared by sonication the activity pattern did not exhibit significant oscillations and the activity was higher than that recorded in hypotonic hemolysates. The observed rhythms may reflect a time-dependent attachment and detachment of enzyme molecules from cell membrane, suggesting that at the bound state the enzyme molecules are (temporarily) inactive. Oscillations with similar long ultradian periods were also observed in Ca
4295771|The effects of metabolic poisons on the ATP content of cultured human skin fibroblasts at selected in vitro and in vivo ages were studied. Potassium cyanide, iodacetemide, and Arsenate were used to inhibit ATP restoration by glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation. Cells treated with these metabolic poisons showed an age-dependent change in their ATP content. The decrease in cellular ATP content after exposure to these drugs was taken as an estimate of ATP turnover. It was found that there was a decrease in the ATP turnover with increasing population doubling level (i.e. in vitro age), and cells cultured from a 68-yr-old donor had a lower ATP turnover than those cultured from a neonatal donor. This decreased ATP turnover correlates with a previous finding of a decreased ability of "older" cells to be stimulated to migrate in culture and suggests that there is a metabolic component to this age-related functional deficiency.
4296388|In a previous study Chinese hamster fibroblasts carrying a partially deleted v-src were established in a synthetic medium lacking macromolecular supplements and shown to possess a particular serum-free phenotype hereafter designated sf. In cloning efficiency assays, sf, unlike wild-type, fibroblasts required a threshold cell density to grow from single cells, suggesting autocrine stimulation. In the present study a conditioned medium harvested from sf cells was added to the same sf cells, and the resulting cloning density was found to markedly diminish rather than increase. Sf cells were found to be unable to grow at cloning density because of trypsin damage: sf cells seeded into trypsin inhibitor-containing medium cloned with no requirement for threshold cells and were therefore independent of autocrine secretion from neighboring cells. Their cloning efficiency reached 7.7%; this value could not be improved by subcloning the sf culture, and it diminished when selenium was not added to the assay medium. To determine whether v-src is involved in the sf phenotype, five clones of the parental Chinese hamster fibroblast line not infected with Rous sarcoma virus were explanted into serum-free cultures with no macromolecular additives as in the case of v-src-containing cells. Each clone gave rise to an sf cell line growing indefinitely in synthetic medium like the v-src-containing sf cells, showing that the v-src gene is not required either for the establishment or maintenance of the sf phenotype.
4295934|The stroma vascular fraction of adipose tissue consists of a heterogeneous cell population; not all the cells in this compartment undergo adipose conversion in primary culture. A density gradient centrifugation procedure was used to separate cultured cells on the basis of their triglyceride content. This method was applied to both stroma vascular cells from rat adipose tissue and to a 3T3 F442A preadipose cell line as a reference. Comparison of the results obtained from these two cell types suggests that this separation procedure can lead to a quantification of adipose differentiation in the heterogeneous stromal cell population. Separation procedures were applied to cultured stromal cells derived from young rats during the onset of nutritional obesity induced by overfeeding in early life. Results show that early overfeeding induced an increase in the stromal cell differentiation capacity which is expressed in vitro.
4296632| To simplify the isolation of neutrophils, we developed a one-step procedure using elutriation. The perfusate (0.2% gelatin and 0.1% glucose in phosphate buffered saline) was pumped through an elutriator rotor at 4 ml/min (25 C) with the rotor speed at 2370 rpm. Twenty milliliters of anticoagulated porcine venous blood were mixed with 60 ml of perfusate and loaded into the elutriator chamber. The flow rate was increased by 2 ml/min increments and 100-ml fractions of effluent were collected at each increment. Concentrations of neutrophils and mononuclear cells were measured in each fraction, and the percentage of total neutrophils or mononuclear cells was plotted against flow rate. The optimal yield (46%) and purity (95.1%) of neutrophils (n = 8) was obtained in pooled fractions at flow rates greater than 20 ml/min. Neutrophils in this preparation were round, the granules were intact, and the nuclei were lobulated. In addition, the cells produced Superoxide in the presence of phorbol myristate acetate and phagocytosed zymosan particles. These characteristics were similar to those of porcine neutrophils prepared by a conventional sedimentation method. The yield (43%) and purity (94%) of human neutrophils isolated using the elutriator method was similar to that for porcine cells. This one-step method provides a moderate yield of pure neutrophils that have retained their morphology and function. 
4296934|Prolonged exposure of cells to the potent protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide terminates in cell death. In the present study we investigated the effect of insulinlike growth factor-1, insulin, and epidermal growth factor on cell death induced by cycloheximide in the confluent MCF-7 cells, and correlated this effect to the inhibition rate of protein synthesis. Cell death was evaluated by measuring either dead cells by the try pan blue dye exclusion test or by the release of lactic dehydrogenase into the culture medium. After 48 h incubation, cycloheximide (10 to
4296431|For our laboratory's investigation into the role of the endothelial cells in vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage and in inflammatory diseases, we found it necessary to devise a modified method of cell culture, which would be appropriate for studying human endothelial cells from lobectomized brain. We report our techniques to increase cell harvest and ensure reproducibility, our method of culturing endothelial cells from bovine major cerebral arteries, and our morphologic and immunocytochemical characterization of these cells. To increase the harvest of endothelial cells, the blood cells were washed from the lumen of the major cerebral arteries at the slaughterhouse and a modified reversed vessel technique was employed. The monolayer of cultured endothelial cells displayed a cobblestone appearance when it reached confluency and transmission electron microscopy revealed junctional complexes and interdigitation of cytoplasm at Passages 10 and 17. The cells stained positively for Factor VIII-related antigen at Passages 3, 5, 7, 10, and 15. Also the cells metabolized acetylated low-density lipoprotein at Passage 8. To determine the purity of the cultured endothelial cells, an immunocytochemical study of the cytoskeleton was performed on Passage 5 cells using either rhodamine-phalloidin or antibodies against smooth muscle myosin, desmin, and vimentin.
4296635|We have demonstrated that squamous metaplasia induced by benzo(a)pyrene (BP) in the hamster tracheal explants accompany distinct alterations in carbohydrate moieties in the epithelial mucosa. Most prominent alterations were the preferential binding of peanut agglutinin (PNA) and wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) in the basal cell layer in metaplastic lesions. In this study we examined if reversal of BP-induced lesions by all-trans retinoic acid (RA) results in the acquisition of normal carbohydrate composition by the tissue. Four lectins, PNA, WGA, Dolichos biflorus agglutinin, and Concanavalin A, in their horseradish peroxidase conjugates were used. In control explants the intercellular plasma membrane of basal and mucous cells exhibited no significant reaction with any of the lectins tested. In the metaplastic lesions induced by BP, PNA and WGA intensely stained the plasma membrane and intercellular spaces of basal and intermediate cell layers; the granular layer cells did not bind PNA whereas they were stained moderately with WGA. RA, which reversed the metaplasia, also conferred the tissue with lectin binding patterns similar to that of control explants. These results thus show that the reversal of metaplasia is accompanied by acquisition of the tissue's original carbohydrate composition.
4296858|The estrogen-responsive Leghorn strain M chicken hepatoma (LMH) cell line provides a model system for studying the estrogen-dependent, liver-specific expression of avian genes. Serum-free culture conditions have been established that allow expression of apolipoprotein B, very low density apolipoprotein II (apoVLDLII), serum albumin, and transferrin at levels detectable by Northern blot analysis. Regulation of apoVLDLII mRNA by estrogen occurred in an appropriate timeand dose-dependent manner in serum-free cultures of the LMH cells. The expression of apoVLDLII mRNA in serum-free culture was at least 100-fold higher than that expressed in cultures containing 10% serum. The level of estrogen receptors in LMH cells cultured with 10% serum was approximately 2000 receptors per cell, and in serum-free culture approximately 1000 receptors per cell. When these cells were transfected with estrogen receptor DNA and cultured in serum-free medium, apoVLDLII mRNA was decreased relative to that expressed in cells transfected with a control plasmid. These results indicate that when the LMH cells are cultured without serum, estrogen receptors are not the limiting factor for the expression of the apoVLDLII gene.
4296291|Primary cultures of spontaneously beating myocardial cells isolated from neonatal rat hearts were used to screen the cardiotoxic effects of Jamesoni's mamba (Dendroaspis jamesoni) venom and components isolated from the venom by gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography. Cardiotoxicity was evaluated on the basis of leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), changes in morphology, cell membrane lysis, cellular viability, and alterations in spontaneous beating activity. The whole venom caused dose- and time-dependent leakage of LDH, disruption of the cell monolayer, decreases in viability, and inhibition of beating activity. Gel filtration of the venom yielded eight fractions (DjI to DjVIII). DjI (30 g/ml), DjII (20 g/ml), and DjV (20 g/ml) caused significant (P < 0.001) leakage of LDH, extensive morphologic damage, and decreases in viability. At lower concentrations DjI to DjVIII caused progressive inhibition of spontaneous beating activity. The main fraction (DjV), which was the most toxic, was further separated into 14 polypeptides (Dj1 to Dj14) by ion-exchange chromatography using Bio-Rex 70. Based on the ability to induce LDH leakage, produce morphologic damage, lyse cell membranes, and arrest beating activity, four categories of polypeptides were identified: cardiotoxins, Dj1 and Dj2; cardiotoxinlike polypeptides, Dj3 to Dj8; less active membrane lytic polypeptides, Dj9 to Dj13; and membrane lytic polypeptide, Dj14.
4296259|We sought to establish conditions that increased the duration of testosterone production by fully differentiated adult rat Leydig cells in primary culture. A freshly isolated suspension of highly purified adult rat Leydig cells produced 83 ng testosterone/10
4295985|Mucosal biopsies from rabbit ileum were organ cultured for 24 h. The influence of triamcinolone and somatostatin on villus height and diameter as well as crypt depth and the number of mitoses was measured at various times during 24 h of culture as indices of cell proliferation and tissue maintenance. It could be shown that triamcinolone reduced cell proliferation slightly but preserved mucosal structure in organ culture. Somatostatin inhibited crypt cell proliferation, without any effect on other morphological parameters.
4295732|The study of the growth rate and incorporation of
20171479| In experimental animal models the susceptibility of the mammary gland to neoplastic transformation is related to its degree of development and proliferative activity; this observation led us to determine whether the human breast epithelium also exhibits development-related differences, and whether these differences could be detected in an in vitro system. Normal breast tissue obtained from reduction mammoplasties of 9 patients ranging in age from 18 to 56 years were characterized in both whole mount preparations and organoids obtained after collagenase-hyaluronidase digestion by their degree of development based upon the types of lobules present. Lobules were classified into type 1 (Lob 1), composed of approximately 11 alveolar buds, the less developed; lobules type 2 (Lob 2), of moderate development, composed of approximately 47 ductules each, and lobules type 3 (Lob 3), composed of 80 ductules each, represented the highest level of development. Epithelial organoids obtained after digestion were plated in DMEM:F12 medium supplemented with hydrocortisone, cholera toxin, insulin and 5% horse serum with a calcium concentration of 1.05 mM Ca. Following attachment, the medium was replaced by medium containing 0.040 mM Ca. The percentage of attachment of organoids to the flask was greater in cells from Lob 1 (89-99%) and Lob 1+2 (79-100%) than in cells from Lob 3, which had a 53-67% attachment. The total yield of cells after 7 weeks in culture was also greater in cells derived from Lob 1 and Lob 1+2 than in cells from Lob 3. The total yield of cells obtained from primary cultures was not related to the number of organoids plated, but to the degree of development of the gland. The DNA-labeling index (DNA-LI) in intact breast tissue correlated with that in primary cultures; it was greater in Lob 1 and Lob 1+2 than in Lob 3. By flow cytometry, the highest percentage of cells in S-phase was seen in cells with the highest DNA-LI. We concluded that the growth characteristics of mammary epithelial cells in vitro in a low Ca medium is modulated by the degree of development and differentiation of the gland. 
4295723| This study demonstrates that phenotypic characteristics of androgen-responsive (AR) Shionogi mouse mammary tumors and androgen-independent (AI) derivatives can be maintained in culture. Cells were seeded onto collagen gels in medium containing 2% dextran-charcoal-treated fetal bovine serum with or without 0.01 g/ml dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Androgen-responsive tumors grew more rapidly than AI tumors in vivo and consequently, cells from AR tumors cultured in DHT-containing medium grew faster than cells in DHT-deprived medium and cells from AI tumors. Androgen-responsive tumors had a sheetlike growth pattern; AI tumors formed clumps or irregular cords of cells. Cells from AR tumors cultured in the presence of DHT formed confluent pavements, whereas cells maintained in the absence of DHT and cells from AI tumors formed clusters or cords of cells. Ultrastructurally, cells of AR tumors were elongated; cells of AI tumors were smaller and rounder. These cellular morphologies persisted in culture. Tumofigenicity of cells was assayed by injecting cells s.c. into host mice. Tumors arising from cells of freshly dissociated AR tumors and cells of AR tumors cultured in the presence of DHT appeared more rapidly and grew faster in intact males than in castrated males and intact females. Tumors arising from cells cultured in the absence of DHT and from freshly dissociated or cultured cells of AI tumors had identical rates of appearance and growth in all hosts. This culture system permits these cells to retain their state of malignant progression in vitro and should be a useful model for studying the origin of heterogeneity within tumors and its role in tumor behavior. 
4295745|We report that synchronized cultures of Plasmodium falciparum with up to 40% parasitized cells can be obtained with the use of low, red blood cell suspensions and only daily replacement of culture medium. These cultures contained not only a reduced proportion of uninfected red cells but also a population of cells with brief and equal time of exposure to culture conditions. Such high parasitemias are desirable for studies of ring-staged parasites (for which enrichment techniques are not available) and late-staged parasites when the manipulations for enrichment are inappropriate or unsuccessful.
20171528| A serum-free culture system was used to compare the nutritional requirements of mouse mammary cells transformed by bovine papillomavirus type 1 (ID13 cells) and the uninfected parent line (C127 cells). The serum-free, chemically defined medium used for this study was an MCDB 151-based medium (MCDB 151+S+I), supplemented with epidermal growth factor, transferrin, hydrocortisone, ethanolamine, phosphoethanolamine, retinoic acid, trace metals, and insulin. Proliferation of either cell type in serum-free culture required the addition of 250 g/ml of insulin. ID13 cells have a doubling time of greater than 96 h in MCDB 151+S+I, whereas C127 cells have a doubling time of 60 h. This is in sharp contrast to the growth characteristics of the two cell types in 10% fetal bovine serum, where doubling times for the ID13 and C127 cells are 24 and 30 h, respectively. Culture of the cells in a serum-free medium has therefore revealed that the papillomavirus-transformed cells have more stringent growth requirements than the uninfected parent line. 
4296412| As basic studies of hyperthermia and hypothermia on malignant tumor, the kinetics of proliferative activity, the morphologic changes in the two cell lines, SGF-3 and SGF-5, established in our department after the change of culture temperature were examined. The results obtained were: a) A significant difference was found in the sensitivity to temperatures between the two cell lines originated from human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The temperature range allowing cultured cell to proliferate were from 31 to 39 C in SGF-3 and from 29 to 41 C in SGF-5. b) Minor difference occurred in the results between the two cell lines examined during the recovery of proliferative activity, but no proliferative activity was discovered after the cells were exposed to 42 C for 72 h. Two cell lines resumed their proliferation after having been exposed to 27 or 28 C for 72 h. c) Morphologic changes of the cell lines cultured at high temperature were cytoplasmic vacuolation and cell aggregation by phase contrast microscope and the increase of heterochromatin, the decrease of granular formation in nucleoli, and nucleolar vacuolation by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). At low temperatures the changes observed included cytoplasmic ballooning and circumnuclear halo formation by phase contrast microscope, and the increase of heterochromatin, nucleolar segregation, swelling of mitochondria, and dilatation of rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) by TEM. 
4296821|From a plaque biopsy of a patient with mycosis fungoides, two different continuous cell lines were established by including both IL-2 and IL-4 in the culture medium. Both continuous cell lines appeared with characteristic chromosome markers after approximately 40 cell population doublings. The initial karyotype recognized in T cells from the skin biopsy was 46,XY and the karyotypes of the continuous cell strains were 46,XY, -18, + i(18q) and another with multiple chromosome aberrations as described in Sezary T-cell leukemia. Phenotyping with monoclonal antibodies and T-cell receptor analysis indicates that the latter cell strain represents a minority of T-cells in the plaque. Due to its many chromosomal aberrations it probably represents the malignant cell, which may be a central cell in the immune stimulation taking place in the skin.
4295922|Recently it has been shown that Polybrene, in conjuction with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) shock, can markedly increase frequency of DNA transfection of chicken embryo fibroblasts as compared with the frequency obtained with the standard calcium phosphate protocol. We have adapted this procedure for use with diploid human fibroblasts. Using plasmid DNA containing a dominant selectable marker gene (resistance to Geneticin), we have determined that treatment of the cells for 6 h in culture medium containing Polybrene at a concentration of 2 to
4296006| Ten barbituric acid (BA) derivatives were synthesized and tested for their potency for supporting survival of functional hepatocytes from adult rats in primary culture. Of the 10 BA derivatives, 7 compounds (C-2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, and 10) efficiently supported hepatocyte survival for at least 2 wks in primary culture. Especially C-5, 6, and 9 showed excellent efficiency for such action. The optimum concentrations of the BA derivatives for observing the morphological and biochemical effects differed from each other. The maintenance of hepatocytes was attained only in the continuous presence of the BA derivatives in the medium. The morphologic features of hepatocytes surviving in the presence of the BA derivatives resembled those of hepatocytes 24 h after inoculation. The surviving hepatocytes secreted remarkably large amounts of albumin into the culture media. Tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) activity was higher in the 1-wk-old cultures treated with C-5, 6, and 9 than in the freshly isolated hepatocytes. The addition of dexamethasone (10 M) caused a 1.7 to 2.1-fold induction in TAT activity. The basal levels of TAT activity and the induction rates increased in the cultures treated with C-5 and 6 from Week 1 to 2 of primary culture. 
4296096|A new superfusion, two-compartment culture system recently developed in our laboratory was used to investigate the dynamic changes in bidirectional secretion of transferrin (Trf) and androgen binding protein (ABP) by rat Sertoli cells (Sc) cultured for up to 12 d under various experimental conditions. The system is unique in that the cells are grown on porous substrate and can be superfused independently at the apical (A) and basal (B) surfaces. The Sc formed confluent monolayers with tight junctions and were highly polarized, morphologically resembling their normal appearance in vivo. The bidirectional secretion patterns (total amount and A:B ratio) of both Trf and ABP were affected by the addition of hormones (testosterone, 10
4295920| Cis-diamminedichloroplatinum II (cis-DDP), an antitumor drug and the inactive trans-isomer were studied to evaluate their effects on cell multiplication, DNA synthesis, and surface morphology of the murine erythroleukemia cells (clone 6A11A). Short-term treatment of cells (1 h) with 5 and 10 g/ml of cis-DDP resulted in a significant inhibition of cell multiplication. Continuous treatment with cis-DDP (up to 144 h) significantly arrested cell growth at 1, 5, and 10 g/ml. The cells exposed to 10 g/ml trans-DDP exhibited a slight decrease in cell multiplication; however, the 25-g/ml treatments showed a modest inhibition of cell growth. Continuous treatment with cis-DDP resulted in a concentration-dependent decrease in DNA synthesis, although low-dose treatment (0.05 and 0.1 g/ml), with a few exceptions, had no relative inhibitory effect. Likewise, trans-DDP treatments decreased tritiated thymidine incorporation; however, this inhibitory effect was not as drastic as with corresponding concentrations of cis-DDP. Scanning electron microscope studies revealed the formation of many giant cells and blebs at all short-term treatment concentrations of cis-DDP past the 48 h interval. Continuous treatment of cis-DDP at 1 g/ml concentration produced giant cells with minute holes, whereas the 5 and 10 g/ml exposure resulted in the formation of blebs and large holes and reduction of microvilli past the 48-h treatment period. At higher concentrations the continuous treatment of cis-DDP completely destroyed the cells. The surface morphology of trans-isomer treated cells, in most instances, resembled the corresponding untreated control cells. 
20171516|Plasmodium berghei exoerythrocytic (EE) stages have been cultured in vitro in human continuous cell lines and primary cultures of both human and rat hepatocytes. Although the predominant experimental model of irradiated sporozoite-induced protective immunity is the mouse, P. berghei has not been cultivated in primary mouse hepatocytes or in continuous mouse lines. Because of this, target cells are not available for determining if these immunized mice produce cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) that recognize P. berghei antigens expressed on hepatocytes in the context of class I major histocompatibility (MHC) antigens. We report the development of methods for cultivating the (EE) stage of P. berghei in murine hepatocytes and in two cell lines derived from the livers of BALB/c mice; one line produced from a primary hepatocyte culture and the other produced by fusion of mouse hepatocytes with a continuous rat liver line. Mature parasites were detected by microscopy and by DNA probe in both cell lines, each of which supported complete development of P. berghei liver stages and production of infectious merozoites. Since class I MHC antigens are present on the surface of primary hepatocytes and the mouse  rat hybrid line, these cells can be used to detect cytotoxic T cells against liver stage parasites.
4296274|Specific interactions between cells and the extracellular matrix (ECM) in which they are embedded play a vital role in tissue organization. In recent years, many of the individual components of the extracellular matrix have been isolated and their molecular structures elucidated, but the detailed topography of most extracellular matrices, as they are deposited by cells, is still largely unknown. In this study, the insoluble extracellular matrix produced by cultured rat vascular smooth muscle cells has been characterized morphologically using high-resolution electron microscopy of rotary platinum replicas. These cells grew as flat sheets in culture, secreting their matrix laterally and basally. The matrix was composed of a cross-linked fibrillar meshwork. Some fine fibers (10 to 15 nm in diameter) were naked, but most of the filamentous mesh was covered with coarse granular material. Limited digestion with trypsin or pancreatic elastase removed most of this coating, indicating that the granules were glycoproteins and proteoglycans. Another subset of matrix fibrils (20 to 40 nm in diameter) was identified as type I collagen by direct comparison with purified bovine skin collagen. In addition to exposing the underlying filamentous substructure of the matrix, protease treatment also revealed large, straight fiber bundles and globules of amorphous material suspended in the filamentous web. This novel view of a complex matrix promises to provide spatial information that will be useful in future studies of cell interactions with the ECM.
4296405|It is possible to treat dissociated embryonic rat dorsal root ganglia in culture to inhibit proliferation of all nonneuronal cells except Schwann cells. Neurons have been shown to produce a mitogenic stimulus for Schwann cells under these conditions. Additionally, myelin-competent neurons induce Schwann cells to elaborate myelin sheaths. Groups of sibling cultures were exposed to various nonlethal concentrations of ethanol (0, 43, 86, or 172 mM) for 4 wk. Cultures were assessed weekly by light microscopy in a blind fashion for evidence of Schwann cell proliferation and myelin formation. Ethanol adversely affected both Schwann cell proliferation and myelin formation in culture. No obvious differences in neuronal morphology were observed among the various groups of cultures by light or electron microscopy. These observations suggest that ethanol might interfere with Schwann cell proliferation and myelin formation in culture by one or both of the following means: a) inhibit neuronal production of signals for Schwann cell proliferation and myelination or b) impede Schwann cell responses to neuronal signals. Investigation of these possibilities in culture may provide insight into neuropathologic mechanisms operative in the fetal alcohol syndrome or alcohol-associated peripheral neuropathy in humans.
4295808|Serum-free media were developed to grow diploid fetal rhesus monkey lung (DBS-FRhL-2) cells and to propagate dengue-type 2 virus vaccine strain PR-159 (dengue-2 vaccine virus). Vitamins, amino acids, growth factors, hormones and other organic compounds, and inorganic salts were substituted for fetal bovine serum. The composition of the medium that was optimal for growth of DBS-FRhL-2 cells differed from medium optimal for the propagation of dengue-2 vaccine virus. Insulin, epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, and platelet-derived growth factor were required for DBS-FRhL-2 cell proliferation in serum-free medium but were inhibitory for virus propagation. Adenosine, cytidine, guanosine, uridine, and thymidine, each at 0.01 mM concentration, were necessary as medium supplements to obtain a high yield of dengue-2 vaccine virus in DBS-FRhL-2 cells under serum-free conditions. DBS-FRhL-2 cells grown in serum-free medium produced dengue-2 vaccine virus with yields similar to those of cells grown in the presence of serum. Dengue-2 vaccine virus obtained under serum-free conditions retained its phenotypic markers such as temperature sensitivity and small plaque size.
4296619| The direct effects of propranolol and metoprolol were studied on cultured neonatal rat ventricular myocytes by recording cellular contraction with a video signal analyzer of cells movements. The experiments were performed on 3-d-old cultures forming a synchronously beating monolayer. The spontaneous beating frequency of preparations depended on cultures and varied from 100 to 330 beats/min with a peak for the interval 140 to 149 beats/min. Propranolol and metoprolol were tested at 1, 5, 10 M and 10, 50, 100 M, respectively. At these doses the two -blockers induced chronotropic and inotropic effects in the same range. The two agents induced rapid and short-lasting negative inotropic effects, which were dose-dependent and delayed negative chronotropic effects even with the lowest doses. In some preparations paradoxal effects were evidenced: an increase of the amplitude or frequency of the contractions was observed. The results obtained with 5 M propranolol or 50 M metoprolol could be separated in two groups depending on the basal beating rate (< or > to 150 beats/min). In cultures with a rapid frequency, the drugs had a marked negative chronotropic effect and, surprisingly, a positive inotropic effect was observed. These findings confirm the interdependence of the two parameters frequency and amplitude of contraction on this model, and evidence the interest of taking into account the control parameters before any interpretation. 
4296095|An optimized basal nutrient medium, MCDB 131, has been developed that supports clonal growth of human microvascular endothelial cells (HMVEC) with as little as 0.7% dialyzed fetal bovine serum (dFBS) when also supplemented with 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF) and
4296080|An improved method for the attachment and growth of normal human colonic epithelial cells from minute 1 to
4296034|Vaginal and uterine stromal (VS and UtS) cells have been cultured in a collagen gel matrix, and the ability of the cells to retain their identity and interact normally with epithelia after culture was examined. Stromal explants from 2-d-old mice were plated onto an extracellular matrix covered with collagen, and maintained in Ham's F12:DMEM (1:1) containing 15% fetal bovine serum. The fibroblastic stromal cells invaded and eventually filled the overlying collagen during the 4-wk growth period, and the total DNA of the UtS and VS cultures increased 3.5- and 4-fold, respectively. To assess the ability of the cultured stroma to perform its normal functions after the in vitro period, recombinations of cultured stroma and fresh epithelia were prepared and transplanted under the renal capsule of female hosts and grown for 4 wk. The epithelium in recombinants of cultured VS + vaginal epithelium (VE) and cultured UtS + uterine epithelium (UtE) was histologically normal and proliferated in response to estrogen. Cultured stroma also instructively induced heterologous epithelium; VS induced UtE to undergo vaginal differentiation, and UtS induced VE to undergo uterine differentiation. These results indicate that UtS and VS retain their identity and do not irreversibly dedifferentiate in culture. Stromal cells grown in a collagen gel matrix form a functional stroma; they interact normally with epithelium after culture and express normal permissive and instructive inductive functions when reassociated with epithelium and grown in vivo.
4295929|Comparisons were made of attachment and viability of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) hepatocytes in short-term (2 days), primary culture on plastic, collagen-coated or extracellular matrix (ECM) coated dishes. Hepatocyte isolation routinely yielded cells with good viability (96%). Cells plated on ECM attached with high efficiency (93%) in contrast to cells cultured on plastic or collagen (~ 20%). The cells plated on ECM flattened out and formed monolayers, while the cells on plastic and collagen rounded up and formed multi-cell aggregates in suspension. Viability of cells in all substrates remained high over the 2 day culture period. ECM is the first substrate to support trout-hepatocyte attachment in primary culture. Differentiated liver function was maintained in cells cultured on ECM as evidenced by the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase by hydrocortisone (200%).
4296783|The sulfate and glucuronide conjugation of acetaminophen (APAP) by hepatocytes cultured on Matrigel or type 1 collagen was compared to APAP metabolism in vivo. The metabolic fate of low (15 mg/kg), medium (125 mg/kg), and high (300 mg/kg) doses of APAP injected intraperitoneally were determined in male and female rats. Males excreted more APAP as the sulfate conjugate than females, which correlated with the twofold greater APAP sulfotransferase activity in the male vs. females (
4296198|Purified heparin-binding growth factor-1 (HBGF-1) stimulated low density lipoprotein binding, internalization, and degradation in isolated human adult arterial smooth muscle cells. Exposure of quiescent cells to HBGF-1 in serum-free, defined medium increased both low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity and de novo cholesterol biosynthesis. Both events preceded the onset of DNA synthesis by 6 to 9 h. HBGF-1 acted additively with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) to maximally stimulate cell surface LDL receptor binding activity and DNA synthesis in the smooth muscle cells. The presence of LDL was required for maximal mitogenic activity of HBGF-1 and PDGF. In the presence of LDL, growth factor-stimulated, proliferating human smooth muscle cells accumulated cholesterol ester and triglycerides. The results suggest that HBGF-1, PDGF, and LDL act together to promote the maximal proliferation of smooth muscle cells in culture. Chronic exposure to the three growth promoters may contribute to the smooth muscle cell hyperplasia and lipid accumulation observed in atherosclerotic lesions.
20171423|Human sweat duct cells from the coiled reabsorptive segment have been cultured successfully, free from fibroblasts, in a low serum, hormone-supplemented medium, Ham's F12. The cultured cells exhibited a typical epithelial cobblestone pattern, and microvilli-covered luminal cells were seen joined together with typical junctional complexes. In cultures derived from normals and patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), growth and morphologic characteristics were indistinguishable. When grown on a membranous support, and mounted in an Ussing chamber, vectorial electroconductive ion-transport could be identified. The epithelial preparations produced active mucosa to serosa-directed sodium flux via amiloride-sensitive, apical sodium channels and ouabain-sensitive sodium pumps located in the basolateral membrane, which also contained a potassium shunt. These findings are consistent with a polarized epithelium with properties similar to the intact organ. High transepithelial resistance and increased amiloride sensitivity were typical for cells derived from CF, indicating that principal normal as well as pathologic properties of the sweat duct are preserved in culture.
4296377| Primary cultures of mouse mammary epithelial cells synthesize significant quantities of chondroitin and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (16). Long term treatment of such cultures with p-nitrophenyl--D-xylopyranoside leads to a 10-20 fold increase in the synthesis and secretion of free chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains and assembly of a cell-associated matrix that is relatively enriched in heparan sulfate proteoglycan. This modulation of cell-synthesized proteoglycans leads to significant changes in cell morphology and cellular differentiation. Notably cells cultured on plastic culture dishes change from being flattened to cuboidal. The synthesis of the milk proteins 1, 2, and -casein is also increased as is the formation of fat droplets and fat droplet membrane components. Promotion of differentiation increases with increasing xyloside concentration in the range 0-1.5 mM, but there may be a block in secretion at higher xyloside concentrations. While the detailed mechanisms remain to be elucidated, we conclude that the composition of proteoglycans incorporated into the matrix (and possibly the glycosaminoglycans secreted into the medium), may play a significant role in maintaining the phenotypic characteristics of terminally differentiated mammary epithelial cells. 
20171545|It was possible to reconstruct epidermis in vitro by seeding dissociated keratinocytes on de-epidermized dermis and growing such recombined cultures for 1 wk, exposed to air, at the surface of the culture medium. These conditions were chosen to mimic the transdermal feeding and the exposure to the atmosphere that occur in vivo. Contrary to classical cultures performed on plastic dishes covered with culture medium, which show rudimentary differentiation and organization, the architecture of the stratified epithelium obtained in reconstructed cultures and the distribution of differentiation markers such as suprabasal keratins, involucrin, and membrane-bound transglutaminase were similar to those of the epidermis of skin biopsies; moreover, biochemical studies showed that the synthesis of the various keratins and the production of cornified envelopes was similar to what is found with skin specimens. The reconstructed epidermis model was found to be very useful to study in vitro the effect of retinoic acid on keratinocyte differentiation and epidermal morphogenesis.
4296809| Previous work has suggested that subcultivated human fetal heart muscle cell cultures contain immature cardiac muscle cells capable only of limited differentiation after mitogen withdrawal. We studied several human fetal heart cultures (14-15 wk gestation) at several passage levels using immunocytochemistry, autoradiography, and Northern blot analysis. Characteristics in high-mitogen (growth) medium were compared with those after serum withdrawal. Cultured cells from one heart, expanded through 2 passages in growth medium, did not beat; however, 75% of cells did beat after subsequent culture for 24 days in low-serum (differentiation) medium containing insulin. In confluent cultures after 1 passage, there was no detectable difference in the number of cardiac myocytes present in growth medium compared with that 7 days after serum withdrawal. After 4 passages, however, serum withdrawal increased the number of cells expressing immunoreactive sarcomeric myosin heavy chain by 100-fold; expression of immunoreactive sarcomeric actin and -cardiac actin mRNA also increased in the same cultures. Similar results were obtained in cultures kept in differentiation medium for 20 days before passage and expansion in growth medium. Using isopycnic centrifugation, a high-density cell fraction was isolated which contained no immunostained myocytes in growth medium but numerous myocytes after serum withdrawal. Combined immunocytochemistry/autoradiography showed that myocytes synthesize DNA in growth medium and in serum-free medium containing fibroblast growth factor, but not in serum-free medium alone. The results indicate that a) human fetal cardiac muscle cells proliferate in vitro and can maintain a phenotype characteristic of fetal myocytes after multiple subcultivations followed by serum withdrawal; b) after subcultivation in growth medium, some myocytes modulate their phenotype into one in which detectable levels of cardiac contractile proteins are expressed only after mitogen withdrawal, and c) the phenotype attained after serum withdrawal is in part dependent on passage level. Cultured human fetal myocardial cells may provide a useful experimental system for the study of human cardiac muscle cell biology. 
4295719|Amphotericin B inhibits hydroxymethylglutarylcoenzyme A (HMGCoA) reductase activity and incorporation of
20171400| A method for culturing endothelial cells (HCC-EC) from surgical specimens of human corpus cavernosum has been developed. The approach involves selective endothelial outgrowth from explants and may be generally applicable to tissues whose endothelium is not amenable to isolation by routine mechanical or enzymatic methods. The tissue is minced into pieces which are placed onto gelatin- or fibronectin-coated tissue culture plastic, and grown in medium suitable for microvascular endothelial cell growth (Carson and Haudenschild, In Vitro 22:344-354, 1986). By Days 5 to 7 EC colonies are found. Within a day or two after the appearance of the EC colonies, a non-EC cell type appears and, if undisturbed, quickly overgrows the EC. An exploitable temporal separation between the emergence of EC and non-EC is obtained when both conditioned medium (from bovine aortic endothelium) and retinal extract are present during the outgrowth period. Explants are removed by pipetting at the first sign of the emergence of the non-EC cell type. Once isolated, HCC-EC do not require conditioned medium but do require either retinal extract or acidic fibroblast growth factor for survival and growth. Approximately 60% of the first passage cultures are at least 80% EC as judged by DiI-Ac-LDL labeling. One corpus (0.3  0.3  0.5 cm) usually produces 120 cm of primary culture within 2 wk. These EC form contact-inhibited monolayers and stain positively for Factor VIII. They have a doubling time at 6th passage of 48 h and a plateau density of 5 to 7  10 cells/cm. The availability of such cultures should facilitate the study of endothelium-mediated responses which play an important role in the erectile function of human penile corpus cavernosum. 
4296108|A new culture vessel for the growth of cells on biological substrata and under organotypic conditions is described. This device, named Combi-ring-dish (CRD), is composed of four concentric rings designed to take up one or several substrata on which cells can be grown either immersed in culture medium or exposed to air and fed from underneath. Using the CRD, outer root sheath cells, isolated from plucked human hair follicles and plated on growth-arrested 3T3 feeder layers, were grown on native collagen lattices populated with living human fibroblasts. After reaching confluence, the immersed cultures were recombined (in vitro) with pieces of freeze-killed dermis and grown further, exposed to air. Thus by mimicking epidermal growth conditions, differentiation was dramatically improved, compared to control cultures on plastic substratum. Virtually all morphologic features of interfollicular epidermis developed. This seems a suitable model to investigate the differentiation potential of human hair follicle cells.
4295882|Six glucagon-secreting cell lines designated as In-R1-G1, -G3, -G7, -G9, -G10, and -G11 were isolated from insulinoma cells (In-111-R1) by single cell cloning. A small amount of insulin was also detectable in the incubation medium when hormone secretion was stimulated by the addition of arginine or theophylline. These cell lines grew as monolayers and the population doubling times varied from 16.8 to 28.8 h. Karyologically these clones were aneuploid and the modes of chromosome numbers were 61 to 70. Electron microscopic examination of one of these clones showed that these cells contained moderately developed Golgi apparatus and a few secretory granules, which more or less resembled
4296433|A new culture method was used to study increases in wet and dry weight and soluble protein during normal development of the transparent lens. Seven different media with more than ten different additives were tested for their effects on cultured lens transparency. In vivo, rat lenses increased 53% in soluble protein content between 3 and 5.5 days of age. Only HL-1 serum-free medium containing 15 g/ml insulin plus 1-2 ng/ml BB platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), or 5-7 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF) allowed similar growth in vitro, during the same time period. Normal lens growth occurred in culture when fresh medium was delivered to lenses as a pulse every 4-6 hours. Lenses decreased in dry weight and soluble protein content, and became opaque when the same medium was delivered continuously. Lenses increased only 26% and 32% in soluble protein content when delivered pulses of HL-1 medium containing BB PDGF or EGF in the absence of insulin. We suggest that pulsatile delivery of medium containing insulin and PDGF or EGF stimulates lens growth during development in vitro. This pulsatile organ culture system is presented as a new approach for studying the effects of growth factors on cell proliferation, differentiation, and receptor regulation in a developing tissue.
4296082|Two key modifications of the previously reported method for isolation of goldfish xanthophores allowed the isolation and establishment of primary cultures of terminally differentiated melanophores from the Black Moor goldfish (Carassius auratus). First, pretreatment with 10
4296489|The effects of excision, light and cytokinin (<tex-math>$N^6-benzyladenine$</tex-math>) on <tex-math>$^{14}C-acetate$</tex-math> metabolism in cotyledons of Pinus radiata (D. Don) were determined. <sup>14</sup>CO<sub>2</sub> was released and the distribution of radioactivity into lipids, sugars, organic acids and amino acids was determined. While light and cytokinin generally caused some increase in metabolism, the effect of excision, i.e., wounding, was most pronounced. Specific metabolites examined (citrate, malate, succinate, alanine, aspartate, glutamate and glutamine) were at least 50% greater in <tex-math>$^{14}C-labeling$</tex-math> in excised cotyledons as compared to intact seedlings. This enhancement of wound metabolism would mask possible morphogenically-related changes occurring at that time.
4296330|A cell line derived from a human ovarian carcinosarcoma was established in tissue culture and in nude mice. Two sublines, LDF and HDF, separated by discontinuous density centrifugation were also established from the parent line JoN. The cloning efficiency of the JoN line was 21%. Morphologic features of adenocarcinoma cells characteristic of the parent JoN cells were retained in the sublines and clones; all lines showed the same karyotype and DNA content (pseudodiploid and pseudotetraploid). Keratin, as demonstrated immunohistochemically, was strongly expressed in the parent line JoN and the xenograft tumor, but not at all in the LDF sublines and only moderately in the HDF sublines. Vimentin, however, was expressed in neither the parent line JoN nor the xenograft tumor, but was present in both sublines. Transglutaminase and plasminogen activator activity was high in the parent line JoN. Neither, sublines nor clones showed the same high enzyme activity as the parent line. It is concluded that this human tumor line JoN is comprised of epithelial cells, capable of multidirectional differentiation.
20171555|Long-term cultivation of human corneal endothelial cells (HCEC) was optimized with respect to different components of the culture system: 25 different nutrient media, different sera, 6 mitogens and various substrates were tested in their ability to influence clonal growth and morphology of HCEC. F99, a 1:1 mixture of the two media M199 and Ham's F12, was the most effective basal medium in promoting clonal growth of HCEC. Among various sera, human serum and fetal bovine serum showed optimal growth promoting activities in combination with F99, whereas newborn bovine serum (NBS) was by far superior for the development of a typically corneal endothelial morphology. Crude fibroblast growth factor (FGF), or alternatively endothelial cell growth supplement, was absolutely essential for clonal growth of HCEC at low serum concentrations, for example 5% NBS. Formation of a monolayer with a morphology similar to corneal endothelium in vivo was observed only on culture dishes coated with basal membrane components such as collagen type IV, laminin, or fibronectin. The most pronounced effect on morphologic appearance was obtained by culturing the cells on the extracellular matrix (ECM) produced by bovine corneal endothelial cells. Moreover, ECM could substitute for crude FGF in clonal growth assays.
4295846|Routine regeneration of fertile plants from a tissue culture of soybean has been achieved. Serially propagated embryogenic cultures were initiated from immature embryos of many genotypes. Organized tissues developed only on the cotyledons of embryos. Genotypic variation in the frequency of initiation of embryogenic tissue was noted. However, embryogenic tissue cultures were generated from all genotypes tested. Embryogenic tissue was serially increased and underwent morphogenesis. Whole fertile plants were recovered. Cultures have been maintained for two years without loss of morphogenic competency.
4296168|Cartilage from larval (ammocoetes) and adult (prespawning upstream migrant) lamprey was successfully maintained both when cultured in vitro or grafted in vivo (on the chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) of host chick embryos). In addition teeth from adult lamprey were successfully cultured in vitro. Cartilages were cultured in supplemented Lebovitz's L15 medium at 15 and 20 C for periods of up to 56 d and in supplemented
4295782|A fluorometric procedure for measuring DNA was used to study growth and metabolic responses of eight cell strains of human foreskin fibroblasts. In preliminary studies this procedure gave more precise specific activity changes in N-acetyl-00D-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) than did a protein activity basis, when changes in this enzyme's specific activity were investigated as a function of experimental cell manipulation. When fibroblast growth in eight cell strains was compared in 134 MM D-fructose vs. 13.4 mM glucose-supplemented minimum essential media, a significant increase in cellular DNA (50%) and protein (45%) occurred over an 11-d period. No significant differences in media pH change, lactate production, or carbohydrate uptake occurred on a DNA basis when cell metabolism was compared over the last 24 h of culture in the two media. Cells grown in fructose-containing media tended to show a reduction in NAG specific activity when compared with those grown in glucose-containing media.
4296725|During experiments concerning the introduction of oncogenes into normal human keratinocytes, we observed long-lived colonies arising spontaneously at the same low frequency in control cultures as in those transfected with Ha-rasEJ or activated c-myc or both. Two of these were karyotyped early in their life span and showed additional chromosomal material on the short arm of chromosome 9 in one case and of chromosome 18 in the other, whereas the parental cells had a normal karyotype. This indicates the presence of a partial trisomy in each line, although the origin of the extra chromosomal material is not known. A similarly long-lived human keratinocyte line containing an isochromosome of the long arm of chromosome 8 has been described elsewhere. Together these results suggest that the spontaneous occurrence of long-lived lines is more common in human keratinocytes than in fibroblasts and that a triple dose of one or more genes may be the initial event in this process.
20171498| Regeneration of grass plants through tissue culture is affected by many factors including genotype and type and concentration of medium components, particularly growth regulators. Objectives of this research were to characterize differentiation and growth of callus from immature inflorescence-explants of a variegated bermudagrass, Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. cv. "Zebra," and to assess the effects of casein hydrolysate (CH) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) concentrations on development of total callus mass and the embryogenic (E) portion. Immature inflorescences about 6 mm in length were inoculated in petri dishes containing modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium. Two levels of CH (0, 200 mg L) and four 2,4-D concentrations (1,3,5,7 mg L) in subplots were tested. Regeneration of 57 plants via somatic embryogenesis was achieved. Both fresh callus weight and E callus, expressed as a percentage of total callus, were significantly affected by CH and 2,4-D treatments. Maximum callus fresh weight and E callus concentration were attained in medium with 3 mg L 2,4-D. Addition of CH to the medium increased fresh weight and E callus within each level of 2,4-D, but not to the same extent as indicated by a significant (P&lt;.01) 2,4-D X CH interaction. Presence of CH and 3 mg L of 2,4-D maximized both fresh weight and percentage of E callus. 
4296111|A rat pulmonary alveolar macrophage (PAM) cell line (NR8383) was initiated in culture in the presence of a gerbil lung cell conditioned medium (GLCM), and has been propagated continuously for over 36 mo. When examined at different times throughout this in vitro period, NR8383 exhibited characteristics typical of macrophages: (a) Zymosan ingestion was seen in 90 to 98% of the cells examined; (b) Pseudomonas aeruginosa phagocytosis in 50 to 80%; (c) Nonspecific esterase activity in >95%. During the first 6 mo., the PAM replicated with doubling times approximating 15 to 20 d. Throughout this period, GLCM dependence was evident. After 27 wk in vitro, NR8383 replication increased markedly, and within 2 wk, the doubling time was less than 48 h. NR8383 was readily monitored by [
20171364|Rous sarcoma virus transformed Chinese hamster fibroblasts, clone CHR1-3, were established at high temperature, then subcloned. Six subclones with round and flat morphology harboring undeleted and partially deleted RSV proviruses, respectively, were seeded into serum-free synthetic medium with no macromolecular additives, and maintained for 2 mo. One flat subclone no. 14, fully designated sfCHR1-3.14 for its serum-free phenotype, was further propagated in the same medium. The cells grew exponentially in loosely attached monolayers and could be serially passaged on bare polystyrene with an average population doubling time of 46 h. Cell attachment could be improved by using collagen-coated polystrene or by adding a methionine supplement to the culture medium. Furthermore, the sfCHR1-3.14 cells could be subcloned and further grown in nonselective medium. The reversion rate of the sf phenotype was estimated to be 1 to 2%/cell generation. Evidence for an autocrinal stimulation was obtained by cloning efficiency assays showing a requirement for a threshold cell density. Slight growth stimulation could also be detected in assays using conditioned medium from sfCHR1-3.14 cells and serum-restricted wild-type (wt)NIH3T3, but not wtCHR1-3.14, cells as indicator cells. Finally, wtNIH3T3 cells used in these assays were assayed for serum-free growth and found to be able to develop their own sf phenotype; in this respect they resemble the previously established sfCHR1-3.14 cells.
4296129|A neonatal rat aorta smooth muscle cell culture system with a unique elastin-rich extracellular matrix was used as a model substrate for elastases. To study the susceptibility to solubilization of insoluble elastin, cultures were incubated in the presence of human neutrophil elastase (HNE) or porcine pancreatic elastase (PPE) and in the absence of serum for periods up to 45 min. Both the incubation media and cell layers were then assessed for elastin and collagen markers, total protein, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Although HNE and PPE exhibited comparable activity against elastin purified from the cell layer, HNE exhibited a 6.7- to 25-fold reduction in its elastin solubilizing activity using intact cell layers as compared with the purified elastin, whereas PPE exhibited only a 1.5- to 2.5-fold reduction. This effect could not satisfactorily be explained as preferential inhibition of HNE activity in the culture system, because the amount of protein solubilized by HNE was 59% that of PPE. The mean elastin content of PPE-solubilized protein was 110% that of the elastin content of the corresponding cell layer; the value for HNE-solubilized protein was only 16%. Thus, the amount of elastin per microgram of solubilized protein for HNE was 15% that for PPE. Possible explanations for the greatly diminished elastolytic activity of HNE in the culture system include the preference of HNE for other substrates in the cell layer, the inability of HNE to penetrate sufficiently into the cell layer, and the presence of sulfated glycosaminoglycans in the vicinity of the elastin that act in an inhibitory fashion. Although there was extensive proteolytic damage to the extracellular matrix, LDH and DNA measurements indicated that little loss of cells or cell viability occurred. The observed differences in elastolytic activity of HNE and PPE in the culture system parallel the relative emphysema-inducing potency of the ela stases in the hamster model of elastase-induced emphysema.
4295718| A short method is described for obtaining a large number of pure vascular smooth muscle cells in culture. The smooth muscle cells were isolated from human umbilical cord arteries digested twice by an enzyme mixture of collagenase, trypsin, elastase, and DNAase with addition of -tosyl-lysyl chloromethane. Primary cell culture and first subculture were not contaminated by endothelial cells, no Factor VIII being produced. The cultures consisted of smooth muscle cells as appeared from phase contrast and electron microscopy. 
20171588|Rabbit morulae and blastocysts were cultured in conventional culture media [Ham's F10 of BSM II supplemented with bovine serum albumin (BSA) or serum] or in Ham's medium supplemented with synchronous or asynchronous uterine flushings, mostly for 2 days, and afterwards investigated by light and electron microscopy and by autoradiography. Ultrastructure and cell proliferation differed considerably between cultured embryos and noncultured controls. Cultured embryos displayed more dead cells. They were developmentally retarded (predominance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum rather than the age-specific rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria still round to ovoid shaped) and showed nonspecific signs of cells damage (swollen mitochondria and Golgi complex vesicles, increased number of lysosomes). All these features were also present in embryos grown in uterine flushing-supplemented media, but were less pronounced. Cell damage and impaired cell proliferation had affected trophoblast cells more than embryoblast cells. Endoderm could be differentiated only if culture had been started with blastocysts--not with morulae--and seems to require uterine secretions. No significant ultrastructural differences were observed between embryos cultured in synchronous or in asynchronous uterine flushings. Present results indicate that cultured preimplantation rabbit embryos deviate clearly from those grown in vivo and maintain, for some time, a better cellular structure--and probably function--in the presence of uterine flushings than in conventional culture media. Specific abnormal morphologic features related to a particular medium could not be identified.
4295907|To avoid the need to preclot porous polyester (Dacron) vascular prostheses, we have proposed the use of a protein coating that will promote the growth and adhesion of endothelial cells. This study assessed the relative advantages of coating woven, knitted, and velour polyester fabrics with albumin, collagen, and a albumin-collagen mixture after preservation in saline or drying by a commercial dehydration process. Preclotted fabrics were used as controls. The cytocompatibility of these biopolymers was measured by an organotypic culture technique which relies on the migration of chick embryonic endothelial cells. After 7 d of culture the cytocompatibility was quantified by counting the cells in the area of migration and the morphology of the endothelial cells was observed by scanning electron microscopy. In general, the knitted and velour fabrics showed superior compatibility than the woven one. The results confirmed that collagen, either alone or combined with albumin, provides in most cases a more cytocompatible surface than albumin alone. A cell morphology most closely resembling that of natural arterial endothelial cells was observed on the albumin-collagen substrate.
4296602|We investigated the biosynthesis of phospholipid, neutral lipids, glycoproteins, and DNA in primary cultures of rat oxyntic mucosal cells. In addition, responses of these biosynthetic pathways to the gastric protective agent 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E
4296295|Primary myocardial cell cultures and freshly isolated cardiac cells in suspension respresent two isolated, whole cell models for investigating cellular transsarcolemmal <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange in response to a receptor-coupled stimulus. Studies were performed to characterize beta-adrenergic receptor binding, beta-adrenergic receptor mediated cellular calcium (<sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup>) exchange, and viability in purified primary myocardial cell cultures and freshly isolated cardiac cells in suspension obtained from 3- to 5-d-old Sprague-Dawley rats. In addition, beta-adrenergic receptor binding was characterized in whole-heart crude membrane preparations. All three preparations had saturable beta-adrenergic binding sites with the antagonist $[^{125}I]iodopindolol$ ($[^{125}I]IPIN$). The suspensions had a significantly lower B<sub>max</sub> ($42 \pm 6 fmol/mg protein$) than the membranes and cultures ($77 \pm 8$ and $95 \pm 10 fmol/mg protein$, respectively). The K<sub>D</sub> of the cultures ($218 \pm 2.0 pM$) was significantly higher than that for the suspensions ($107 \pm1.3 pM$) and membranes ($93 \pm1.3 pM$). Viability was significantly lower in the suspensions (57%) when compared to 94% viability in myocardial cell cultures after 3 h of incubation in Kreb's Henseleit buffer. Incubation of the cultures with $5.0 \times 10^{-7} M$ isoproterenol resulted in a significant increase in <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange as early as 15 s. In contrast, <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange into the suspensions was not increased. Although both primary cell cultures and cardiac cells in suspension possess saturable beta-adrenergic receptors, only the monolayer cultures exhibited functional beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange. Of the two intact cell models investigated, these data suggest that primary myocardial cell cultures are more suitable than cell suspensions for investigating beta-adrenergic receptor binding and functions in the postnatal rat heart.
4296087| Protoplasts of Brassica nigra (L.) Koch were isolated from stem peels of bolting racemes and cultured in 1.5 ml of VN1 liquid medium. The protoplasts in the liquid medium were plated on top of half strength MS medium supplemented with 400 mg/liter glutamine, 15 mg/liter glutathione, 50 mg/liter L-serine, 0.25 mg/liter 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.5 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 1.5% sucrose, and 5% mannitol, pH 5.7, solidified with 0.3% agarose. Ten percent of calli obtained from the protoplasts developed into plantlets within 4 wk after transfer onto 2N regeneration medium which contains MS salts plus 200 mg/liter casein hydrolysate, 0.625 mg/liter 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.625 mg/liter kinetin, 0.625 mg/liter 6-(,-dimethylallylamino)-purine, 0.625 mg/liter zeatin, 0.5 mg/liter 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, 1.5% sucrose, and 0.4% agarose. This is the first report of plant regeneration from B. nigra protoplasts. 
4295886|Forelimbs of Day 11 and Day 12 embryonic mice were excised and cultured for 3 d in the presence of either
4296101|Seven continuous primate cell lines were tested in three systems (nude mice, muscle organ culture, and soft agarose) for their ability to express characteristics usually associated with malignant cell lines. Five of the seven cell lines failed to produce tumors in nude mice, failed to show a tumor-like pattern of growth in muscle organ culture, and failed to produce colonies in soft agarose. The remaining two cell lines showed different degrees of tumorigenicity in nude mice, and gave frankly positive results in the two in vitro assays. In addition, one of these lines appeared to progress from potential to overt tumorigenicity. We conclude that acquisition of infinite life in primate cell lines is not invariably equivalent to the ability to form tumors.
4296998|The DiFi human colorectal cancer cell line was recently established from a familial adenomatous polyposis patient with extracolonic features characteristic of the Gardner syndrome. These cells have now been propagated for 150 passages in standard culture media and vessels without feeder layers or collagen coatings. They retain features of colonic epithelial cells such as surface microvilli, secretory vesicles, and desmosomes. Cytosol of DiFi cells contains a high level (502 U/mg protein) of the mucin CA 19-9. In addition, DiFi cells produce carcinoembryonic antigen, and induce tumors in athymic mice. Cytoskeleton analysis of DiFi cells by fluorescence microscopy showed a pronounced disorganization of actin cable structure. The isozyme genetic signature of DiFi cells is unique (0.01 probability of finding the same genetic signature in a different cell line), differs from that of HeLa cells, and has expressional features seen in other colorectal cell lines. The DiFi cell karyotype is tetraploid, contains many marker chromosomes, and shows numerous episomal particles. Two copies of chromosome 18 were absent, and only a single normal chromosome 17 was found. This parallels detection of allelic losses from DiFi cell DNA at loci on chromosomes 17p and 18 using molecular (cDNA) probes. DiFi cells clearly express transcripts for the c-myc proto-oncogene, the c-myb proto-oncogene, and the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Transforming growth factor beta inhibits DiFi cell growth in soft agar and suppresses c-myc expression in these cells. The value of this cell line in the study of genetic alterations in colorectal cancer is discussed.
4295997|Adult rat liver slices were maintained for 20 h in a novel organ culture system with minimal loss of viability and function. Potassium and adenosine triphosphate levels were maintained at in vivo levels, following an initial recovery period (2 to 4 h), for up to 20 h. Protein synthesis and secretion were linear for 20 and 16 h, respectively. In addition, the liver slices synthesized glycogen between 4 and 12 h in culture. Finally, the liver slices were hormonally responsive during the 20 h culture period as exemplified by glucagon-stimulated glucose production. This system provides a simple and effective method for the culture and biochemical maintenance of adult rat liver for 20 h with minimal loss of biochemical function.
4296387|The adult mouse submandibular salivary gland provides a good model system to study gene regulation during normal and abnormal cell behavior because it synthesizes functionally distinct products ranging from growth factors and digestive enzymes to factors of relevance to homeostatic mechanisms. The present study describes the long-term growth and differentiation of submandibular salivary epithelial cells from adult male mice as a function of the culture substratum. Using a two-step partial dissociation procedure, it was possible to enrich for ductal cells of the granular convoluted tubules, the site of epidermal growth factor synthesis. Long-term cell growth over a period of 2 to 3 mo. with at least 3 serial passages was obtained only within three-dimensional collagen gels. Cells grew as ductal-type structures, many of which generated lumens with time in culture. Electron microscopic analysis in reference to the submandibular gland in vivo revealed enrichment for and maintenance of morphologic features of granular convoluted tubule cells. Reactivity with a keratin-specific monoclonal antibody established the epithelial nature of the cells that grew within collagen. Maintenance of cell differentiation, using immunoreactivity for epidermal growth factor as criterion, was determined by both cytochemical and biochemical approaches and was found to be dependent on the collagen matrix and hormones. Greater than 50% of the cells in primary collagen cultures contained epidermal growth factor only in the presence of testosterone and triiodothyronine. In contrast, cells initially seeded on plastic or cycled to plastic from collagen gels were virtually negative for epidermal growth factor. Biochemical analysis confirmed the presence of a protein with an apparent molecular weight of 6000 which comigrated with purified mouse epidermal growth factor. Epidermal growth factor was also present in detectable levels in Passage 1 cells. This culture system should permit assessment of whether modulation of submandibular gland ductal cell growth can be exerted via a mechanism that in itself includes epidermal growth factor and its receptor and signal transduction pathway.
20171368|This study reports the results of a critical comparison of five statistical methods for estimating the density of viable cells in a limiting dilution assay (LDA). Artificial data were generated using Monte Carlo simulation. The performance of each statistical method was examined with respect to the accuracy of its estimator and, most importantly, the accuracy of its associated estimated standard error (SE). The regression method was found to perform at a level that is unacceptable for scientific research, due primarily to gross underestimation of the SE. The maximum likelihood method exhibited the best overall performance. A corrected version of Taswell's weighted-mean method, which provides the best performance among all noniterative methods examined, is also presented.
4296226|Retinoids and growth factors seem to be important for normal mammalian reproduction and development. High levels of retinoic acid are teratogenic and induce cleft palate in the mouse. Little is known concerning the mechanisms through which retinoids induce cleft palate. Palatal epithelia from CD-1 embryonic mice on Day 12 of gestation were isolated from the mesenchyme and cultured in serum-free media, with all-trans retinoic acid or 13-cis retinoic acid, with or without epidermal growth factor (EGF). The epithelia attached and grew, and the cells differentiated over a 72-h culture period. Binding of
4296559| Neutral red assay, as an index of cytotoxicity, has been applied to predictive screening of chemotherapeutic agents. Human hepatoma and melanoma tumor cells and normal melanocytes, keratinocytes, and fibroblasts were incubated for 2, 24, and 48 h with graded concentrations of cis-platinum (0.1 to 80 M), doxorubicin (0.01 to 100 M), and 5-fluorouracil (1 to 1000 M). Cells were most sensitive after 48 h. Tumor cells, based on 50% toxicity values, were 2-4 times more sensitive than the normal cells, except for cis-platinum, where only melanoma cells, as compared to normal melanocytes, showed a marked difference in cytotoxic response. Methotrexate (1 to 10 M) toxicity could be reversed in the presence of 100 M of leucovorin. This sensitive, rapid, and economical assay is suitable for preclinical screening and drug development. 
4296358|The glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content of rabbit skin, oral mucosa, and cultured
4296073|Recent results from several laboratories suggest that complex interactions between hormones and dietary carbohydrate may be responsible for regulating the induction of several hepatic lipogenic enzymes. Elucidation of these interactions requires the ability to culture hepatocytes for several days in serum-free medium where the hormones or carbohydrate or both present is strictly controlled. The functional response of primary adult rat hepatocytes was examined in a medium without exposure to serum, hormones, or carbohydrates and on three substrata commonly used to culture cells in a defined medium. Hepatocytes cultured on a floating collagen gel in which is embedded a nylon mesh possess cell attachment and morphologic characteristics superior to either cells cultured on a collagen-coated or fibronectin(Fn)-coated substratum. Cells cultured on the gel-mesh system retain insulin responsivity, as measured by protein synthesis rates and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) induction, for at least 6 d in culture. Under these conditions, insulin, dexamethasone, and fructose increase G6PD specific activity to levels comparable to that seen in an induced animal. Hepatocytes cultured on the gel-mesh system tolerate restricted medium conditions better than cells cultured on collagen or Fn-coated substratum, and remain viable for sufficient times to allow, for the first time, full expression and maximal induction (i.e. like in vivo) of G6PD in cultured cells. This system represents a satisfactory model for in vivo liver metabolism and a superior system for studying the effects of hormones and metabolites on G6PD levels, as well as other nutritional-hormonally regulated enzymes.
4296310|Although luteinizing hormone (LH) alone stimulates ovarian interstitial cells cultured in serum-free medium to synthesize large amounts of androgens, there seem to be additional factors in vivo that modulate the time course and magnitude of the cellular responses to LH. In an attempt to develop a more nearly physiologic cell culture model, lipoproteins, insulin, and insulinlike growth factor-I (IGF-I) were added to the serum-free medium. The effects of these modifications on androgen biosynthesis by dispersed cells from ovaries of hypophysectomized immature rats cultured in 96-well tissue culture plates were examined. A saturating dose of LH stimulated a 25-fold increase in androsterone synthesis at 2 d, which decreased at 4 and 6 d. Addition of human high density (hHDL) or human low density lipoprotein (hLDL) caused a 2.5-fold increase in LH-stimulated androsterone synthesis. Cells were approximately twice as sensitive to hHDL (
4296733|High cell density is required for high procollagen expression (50% of total protein synthesis) in primary avian tendon (PAT) cells but the signaling mechanism that triggers this response has been difficult to decipher. By using a quantitative in situ hybridization assay for procollagen mRNA, cell density dependent changes in procollagen expression can be followed at the single cell level. PAT cells can then be shown to respond to the presence of their neighbors over ~ 1-mm distance. The cell density signal remains effective independent of the medium volume to cell ratio but becomes sensitive to dispersion and dilution when the medium is agitated. PAT cells respond to a reduction in cell density, when neighboring cells are scraped away, by outgrowth (~1 mm) and reestablishment of a cell density gradient in cellular procollagen mRNA levels. However, removing neighboring cells while preventing migration off of their own extracellular matrix retards the drop in procollagen mRNA levels. The evidence, taken as a whole, is consistent with a model whereby the cell density signal is a loosely bound component of the cell layer thereby restricting its diffusion to two dimensions but making it susceptible to dispersion by medium agitation.
4296993|Previous studies have suggested that gap junctions may have a role in various uterine functions, including parturition. Because nickel has been demonstrated to increase uterine contractility in vitro, the effect of nickel (II) chloride on gap junctional communication was assessed in a tumorigenic uterine cell line, SK-UT-1 (ATCC HTB 114). Cells were exposed in vitro to
20171385| We report that cultured bovine calf aorta and human adult iliac artery smooth muscle cells release a soluble factor which causes spreading and separation of cells in normally tight, cohesive epithelial colonies, similar to the morphologic changes induced by the fibroblast-derived scatter factor (SF). Smooth muscle-derived SF was heat sensitive, trypsin labile, and nondialyzable, consistent with a protein (or proteins). Its effects on epithelium were not mimicked by a variety of proteolytic enzymes, growth factors, or hormones, and were not blocked by antiproteases or by antibodies to fibronectin and basic fibroblast growth factor. Epithelial cell proliferation was unaffected or only mildly stimulated by partially purified SF at concentrations that produced cell scattering. Both smooth muscle- and MRC5 human embryo fibroblast-derived SFs could be partially purified with similar elution patterns on a number of different chromatographic columns, including DEAE-agarose, heparin-sepharose, Bio-Rex 70, concanavalin A-sepharose, and MonoQ. SF from both sources bound tightly to heparin-sepharose, requiring 1.3 to 1.4 M NaCl for elution. The morphologically obvious cell scattering effect was markedly inhibited by soluble heparin at concentrations down to 5 g/ml, and this inhibition was prevented by protamine. These data suggest that vascular smooth muscle cells produce an epithelial cell scattering factor with properties similar to the fibroblast-produced factor, including a high affinity for heparin. Such factors are potentially important because they may represent a new class of proteins that primarily regulate cell mobility rather than growth and differentiation. 
4296109|The activities of three antioxidant enzymes, Superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, were monitored in isolated human renal adenocarcinoma tissues and in cultured human renal adenocarcinoma cells. The results were compared to the activities of these enzymes in the proposed cell of origin, isolated human proximal tubular tissues, and cultured proximal tubular epithelial cells. Strong modulation of these enzymes by culture conditions was observed in normal cells but not in carcinoma cells. Low levels of cellular lipid peroxidation, as assessed by levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), were observed in adenocarcinoma cells under the culture conditions tested with one exception: greatly elevated MDA was observed in renal adenocarcinoma cells grown on plastic in serum-free, chemically defined medium. This increased lipid peroxidation correlated with a loss of cell viability under these conditions.
4296068|Cell viability, cytochrome P-450 content, cell respiration, and lipid peroxidation were all investigated as a function of oxygen tension in adult rat hepatocytes in short-term culture (less than 9 h). The various oxygen tensions used in this study were obtained by equilibrating culture medium with air, air + nitrogen, or air + oxygen. Cell viability, as assessed by trypan blue exclusion, was significantly greater at all time points tested when hepatocytes were cultured in Ham's F12 medium containing
4295859|Limited lifespan human diploid fibroblast cells have been fused with the HeLa derived cell line HEB 7A which possesses transformed growth characteristics and unlimited division potential. HEB 7A expresses keratin intermediate filaments, while the fibroblast cells express only vimentin intermediate filaments. Independently arising clones of hybrids were examined for the presence of keratin by indirect immunofluorescence. Of 11 limited lifespan hybrids, all were keratin negative and possessed the growth characteristics of the fibroblast parent. Of 8 transformed hybrids, 6 arising early after fusion and 2 arising late, all were keratin-positive and simultaneously expressed the transformed growth characteristics of loss of density dependent growth inhibition, low serum dependence, and anchorage independence. It is concluded that the growth properties of these hybrids are associated with the type of intermediate filament expressed. The intermediate filament expression is therefore a marker of proliferative potential in these hybrids.
4296659|The extracellular matrix, particularly basement membranes, plays an important role in angiogenesis (blood vessel formation). Previous work has demonstrated that a basement membranelike substrate (Matrigel) induces human umbilical vein endothelial cells to rapidly form vessel-like tubes (Kubota, et al., 1988; Grant et al., 1989b); however, the precise mechanism of tube formation is unclear. Using this in vitro model, we have investigated morphologic changes occurring during tube formation and the cytoskeletal and protein synthesis requirements of this process. Electron microscopy showed that endothelial cells attach to the Matrigel surface, align, and form cylindrical structures that contain a lumen and polarized cytoplasmic organelles. The cytoskeleton is reorganized into bundles of actin filaments oriented along the axis of the tubes and is located at the periphery of the cells. The addition of colchicine or cytochalasin D blocked tube formation, indicating that both microfilaments and microtubules are involved in this process. Cycloheximide blocked tube formation by 100%, indicating that the process also required protein synthesis. In particular, collagen synthesis seems to be required for tube formation because cis-hydroxyproline inhibited tube formation, whereas either the presence of ascorbic acid or the addition of exogenous collagen IV to the Matrigel increased tube formation. Our results indicate that endothelial cell attachment to Matrigel induces the reorganization of the cytoskeleton and elicits the synthesis of specific proteins required for the differentiated phenotype of the cells.
4296353| A technique has been devised to attach adult rat hepatocytes to collagen-coated dextran microcarriers. Cells were cultured serum-free for 2 d and their viability, enzyme activities, glucose metabolism, and hormone responsiveness were compared to data obtained from conventional dish cell culture. The two different culture methods showed no difference in cell viability and morphology. Microcarrier-cultured cells exhibited hormone responsiveness comparable to dish cultures; glycolysis could be activated three-fold by the sole addition of insulin, and gluconeogenesis was increased by 40 to 50% by glucagon. During the 48-h culture glucokinase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activities declined at a similar rate in both culture systems. Long-term culture with 0.1 M insulin prevented the decrease of glucokinase activity. Insulin responsiveness (activation of glycolysis) was still pronounced after 48 h in culture. The microcarrier technique establishes a new in vitro liver system in which acute and long-term hormonal actions can be investigated using the technical advantages of a suspension culture. 
4296653|During the course of studies involving the in vitro manipulation of channel catfish peripheral blood leukocytes, spontaneous proliferation was observed with unexpectedly high frequency. Propagation of these spontaneously proliferating cells has resulted in the development of long-term (> 11 mo.) cell lines which stain positively for nonspecific esterase and peroxidase, are phagocytic for latex beads, and morphologically resemble mammalian monocytes or macrophages. These long-term cell lines also exhibit two important additional functional features. First, induction with lipopolysaccharide results in the secretion of relatively high levels of catfish high and low molecular weight species of interleukin-1 active on channel catfish and mouse T cells, respectively. Second, these cell lines are efficient antigen-presenting cells to autologous peripheral blood leukocytes for antigen specific in vitro proliferative and antibody responses. This antigen-presenting function is blocked by inhibitors known to prevent antigen processing and presentation by mammalian monocytes. Allogeneic mixtures of cell line (used as antigen-presenting cells) and responding peripheral blood leukocytes, however, resulted in strong mixed leukocyte reaction but not in specific antibody responses. The availability of such cell lines should facilitate further studies on accessory cell functions in fish immune responses.
4296451|Evidence is presented that a differentiated mesodermal line (MES-1) from P19 EC cells express a high chemotactic response to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) as assayed in a blind-well modified Boyden chamber. Compared to the NIH 3T3 fibroblasts the chemotactic response of MES-1 is increased by 10-fold at 0.3 ng/ml of PDGF, 4-fold at 1.25 ng/ml of PDGF, 2-fold at 2.5 ng/ml of PDGF. In contrast, PDGF induces the same increase in [
4296822|We have investigated the effects of interactions between growth factors and heparin-like glycosaminoglycans on untransformed human arterial smooth muscle cells (hASMC) in vitro. The results indicate that heparin in the presence of serum mitogens prevents the cells from entering the S phase of the cell cycle by binding and inactivating reversibly some serum mitogen(s). Our results suggest that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is one of them and that it is the most potent stimulator of hASMC growth in vitro. Thymidine incorporation as well as increase in DNA content was inhibited not only by the presence of heparin in serum-containing medium but also when serum was chromatographed on Heparin- Sepharose at physiologic salt concentrations before exposure to the cells. The mitogenic activity of the unretained serum fraction was restored by the addition of PDGF AA, AB, or BB dimers or of a fraction (RF I) that dissociated from Heparin-Sepharose at 0.2 to 0.6 M NaCl. Radiolabeled recombinant PDGF (c-sis) dissociated from Heparin-Sepharose within a concentration range of NaCl similar to that of RF I. Neither the unretained material nor the RF I or PDGF dimers were effective alone. The effect of RF I was significantly decreased by the addition of an anti-PDGF IgG that is known to neutralize the PDGF mitogenic activity partially. Addition of heparin abolished DNA-synthesis when the PDGF dimers or RF I were combined with the unretained fraction. A second fraction (RF II) bound strongly to Heparin-Sepharose and eluted between 1.1 and 1.6 M NaCl. The RF II also induced DNA synthesis but was neither as efficient as RF I nor depending on other serum fractions for growth promotion and it was not inhibited by anti-PDGF IgG. A similar strong affinity for Heparin-Sepharose was found for labeled basic fibroblast growth factor and we cannot exclude the possibility that RF II represent fibroblast growth factor. Under these culture conditions, inhibition of hASMC proliferation was directly correlated with the expression of smooth muscle specific alpha actin isoforms in stress fibers and the suppression of a proliferating cell-specific nuclear antigen. Conversely, stimulation of hASMC proliferation was associated with the opposite phenomenon. We conclude that heparin-like glycosaminoglycans influence growth and phenotype of hASMCs in vitro by binding and inactivating PDGF. Inasmuch as heparin-like substances constitute a significant proportion of the proteoglycan-associated glycosaminoglycans of the arterial wall, such mechanisms might be important for the development of atherosclerotic lesions.
20171367|Six different statistical methods for comparing limiting dilution assays were evaluated, using both real data and a power analysis of simulated data. Simulated data consisted of a series of 12 dilutions for two treatment groups with 24 cultures per dilution and 1,000 independent replications of each experiment. Data within each replication were generated by Monte Carlo simulation, based on a probability model of the experiment. Analyses of the simulated data revealed that the type I error rates for the six methods differed substantially, with only likelihood ratio and Taswell's weighted mean methods approximating the nominal 5% significance level. Of the six methods, likelihood ratio and Taswell's minimum Chi-square exhibited the best power (least probability of type II errors). Taswell's weighted mean test yielded acceptable type I and type II error rates, whereas the regression method was judged unacceptable for scientific work.
4296995|Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are potent inhibitors of myogenic differentiation. The recent observation that the endogenous expression of acidic and basic FGF by myogenic cells decreases coordinately with differentiation suggests a regulatory role for these growth factors in myogenesis. Inasmuch as other proteins known to influence myogenesis (e.g., MyoDl and myogenin) activate their own expression as well as the expression of other members of their family, we hypothesized that the FGFs might be capable of similar autoregulation. We examined the effect of exogenously supplied FGF on the abundance of the mRNAs encoding acidic and basic FGF in Sol 8 myoblasts, and demonstrate that either acidic or basic FGF stimulate, through paracrine mechanisms, the accumulation of the mRNAs encoding both of these FGFs. Thus FGFs can auto- and transregulate their own expression in a manner analogous to that observed for the myogenic determination proteins. In addition, similar to that previously observed for MyoDl, both acidic and basic FGF suppress myogenin expression in myoblasts. These results suggest two mechanisms whereby endogenously produced FGFs participate in the maintenance of the undifferentiated state of myogenic cells. These data provide support for paracrine, and suggest potential autocrine, roles for FGFs in the regulation of myogenic differentiation.
4296088|Using monoclonal antibodies against the major intermediate filament (10 nm) cytoskeletal proteins of Drosophila tissue culture cells, we showed by indirect immunofluorescence and immuno-electron microscopy that this cytoskeletal material also occurs in a non-filamentous configuration. Patches of fine granular material are detected in the cytoplasm of Kc cells but are absent in another Drosophila cell line (Schneider, line 2). These patches are surrounded by membranes with bound ribosomes, resembling endoplasmic reticulum, and are found throughout the cytoplasm. We suggest that these aggregates are caused by overproduction of intermediate filament material in the Kc cell line.
4296911|Injury to the gastrointestinal tract by oxygen dependent processes is important in ischemia, inflammatory bowel disease, and necrotizing enterocolitis. The Caco-2 cell line is an important tool in assessing various gastrointestinal functions and offers a unique opportunity to assess gastrointestinal oxidant metabolism on a cellular level. However, some Caco-2 cell functions change with time after confluence. To determine if antioxidant enzyme activity changes during differentiation, Caco-2 cells were grown to confluence, and Superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and catalase activities and specific mRNA content were quantitated. With time after confluence the enzymes demonstrated a small, but statistically significant increase in activity. Neither Superoxide dismutase nor glutathione peroxidase mRNA levels correlated with enzyme activity changes. Catalase mRNA levels increased as catalase activity increased. Thus, differentiated Caco-2 cells express Superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and catalase activities and the Superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase genes. Superoxide dismutase activity and glutathione peroxidase activity do not correlate with mRNA levels, and suggest that regulation may be at a level other than transcription. The correlation between catalase activity and catalase mRNA suggests differentiation may occur at transcription. If Caco-2 cells are used to elucidate oxidative metabolism, changes in activities of antioxidant enzymes as a function of cell differentiation should be considered.
4296164|Because low plating efficiencies of most human cancers severely limit the number of successful chemosensitivity tests that can be performed, we studied the growth-enhancing effects of hormonal growth factors on a variety of solid tumors. Dose-response studies with progesterone and estradiol indicated no benefit from adding these substances to the culture medium. This was true whether progesterone or estradiol was used alone or in the presence of other hormones. By contrast, epidermal growth factor (EGF) at concentrations from 10 to 100 ng/ml increased colony numbers up to 10-fold. Although insulin, hydrocortisone, and EGF used alone could either stimulate or inhibit the growth of specific tumors, the combination of all three (hormone mixture or HM) was always at least as good and usually better than any individual component in increasing cloning efficiency. HM-supplemented medium gave significantly increased colony counts in 41/46 tumors. Sensitivity to anticancer drugs was not changed in 63 paired drug tests.
4295787| The Syrian hamster has a diploid chromosome complement similar to humans in both number (2N=44) and morphology. For comparative mutagenic studies with humans, a repeatable lymphocyte chromosome technique involving laboratory mammals is desirable. The reported hamster lymphocyte cytogenetic technique appears technically uncomplicated and repeatable while providing a sufficient number of metaphase cells for quantitative analysis. In order to determine the effects of storing whole-blood (in culture media) for varying time periods at 8 C prior to adding a mitogen, the mitotic index was calculated following a 48-h culture period. Results indicated that storage up to six days can still result in a mitotic index adequate for cytogenetic analyses. 
4296501| Seven clonal epithelial cell lines from a thymoma of an (ACI/NMs X BUF/Mna)F1 rat and seven clonal epithelial cell lines from an ACI/NMs rat thymus were established in a medium containing 1 M dexamethasone (DM) and were characterized cytologically. Long-term treatment of DM stabilized the epithelial nature of these epithelial cells irreversibly. The established cell lines showed a polygonal shape, were positively stained with antikeratin antiserum and had tonofilaments and desmosomes. Species of their keratin peptides were the same as those of normal thymic epithelial cells in primary cultures. The cell lines were positively stained with Th-4 monoclonal antibody which preferentially stains the medullary epithelial cells of the thymus, but not with Th-3 which preferentially stains the subcapsular and cortical epithelial cells of the thymus. The cells from the rat thymoma were much larger than those from the normal thymus, as reflected in their primary cultures. No transformed phenotypes, such as high growth rate, high saturation density, anchorage independency, low serum dependency and so on, were found in the cell lines from the thymoma as in the cell lines from the normal thymus by in vitro assays. DNA synthesis of the thymic lymphocytes was stimulated by culturing with a line of rat thymoma with no lectins. Thymic lymphocytes strongly bound on the cell lines from the thymoma and changed the shape of the cells. These cell lines may be useful to investigate the mechanism of thymomagenesis and the interactions between epithelial cells and thymocytes in the rat thymoma. 
4296221| The influence of trout serum on the attachment and spreading of isolated trout hepatocytes maintained in primary culture at different temperatures was evaluated. Hepatocytes were obtained from young rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) by collagenase dissociation and maintained in modified Leibowitz L15 medium at 10 or 27 C for 24 h in plastic dishes previously coated with type I bovine collagen. In the absence of serum, fewer than 10% of hepatocytes attached and none of them spread on the collagen substrate. Trout serum at concentrations as low as 1.25% in the medium resulted in a pronounced concentration-dependent increase in hepatocyte attachment, as determined by direct counts by phase contrast microscopy, or by percentage of lactate dehydrogenase activity attached to the dishes after washing away unattached cells. Attachment rates were greater at the lower temperature (10 C). Trout serum also substantially increased the proportion of attached hepatocytes that spread as monolayers on the collagen substrate, especially at 10 C. By comparison, fetal bovine serum had little influence on the attachment or spreading of trout hepatocytes. These studies demonstrate a simple, inexpensive method for preparing attached monolayer trout hepatocyte cultures. This procedure may be useful in toxicologic or functional studies in which fish hepatocyte attachment is an operational requirement. 
4295954|An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed in order to serve in detecting and speciating mycoplasmas isolated from cell cultures. Its main features included a biotin-streptavidin amplification step and a solid phase consisting of a microporous membrane. Cell samples in the form of suspensions were applied to nitrocellulose or ion exchange membranes immobilized in commercially-available microtiter, multiwell manifolds. The blocking buffer contained 1% purified
4296502| Sustained growth of mouse ventral and anterior prostatic epithelial cells embedded within collagen gel matrix was achieved in a serum-free medium composed of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Ham's F12 medium, 1:1 (vol/vol), supplemented with bovine serum albumin fraction V, epidermal growth factor, transferrin, cholera toxin, prolactin, 5-dihydrotestosterone, cortisol, putrescine, fibroblast growth factor, and a trace element mixture. Three-dimensional growth of prostatic epithelial cells occurred inside the collagen gel matrix. This serum-free medium allowed cell growth greater than sevenfold over 10 d in culture. Tissue recombination and cell culture techniques were integrated to demonstrate that cultured cells retained prostatic characteristics. Following 10 d of culture, epithelial colonies from mouse ventral and anterior prostatic epithelial cell cultures were isolated and combined with rat fetal urogenital sinus mesenchyme and grown for 4 wk under the renal capsule of intact athymic male mice. These tissue recombinants showed distinctive prostatic histologic characteristics (alveoli and ducts lined with cuboidal or columnar epithelium surrounded by stroma). When histologic sections of recombinants were stained with the Hoechst 33258, epithelial cells of mouse origin were distinguishable from stromal cells of rat origin. 
4296769|In the present report we have investigated the role that the physical properties of substrata play in modulating the effects which components of extracellular matrix (ECM) exert on adhesion, spreading, and growth of retinal pigmented epithelial cells. By simple modifications of conditions for protein adsorption on glass we obtained a set of substrata all coated with proteins of ECM (protein carpets) but with different physical properties. Using these protein carpets we have shown that their stability (desorption rate) in tissue culture conditions varies according to the technique with which they were prepared. Both semiremovable and immobilized carpets are stable, whereas removable protein carpets desorb readily. Therefore, the protein concentration or composition or both may change with time in tissue culture depending on the technique used to prepare the carpet. In addition, efficacy of cell attachment to given protein may vary depending on whether a technique used to prepare the protein carpet involves denaturation of the protein. Adherent cells quickly remove (clear) weakly adsorbed protein carpets and it seems that the carpet removal is a mechanical process. During the carpet removal cells are rounded, which indicates that a spread cell phenotype normally associated with stress fibers and focal contacts occurs when the substratum is rigid enough to sustain cell traction. In addition, substrata lacking the rigidity to support the spread phenotype do not support cell proliferation either.
4295804|The JTC-12. cell, an established cell line derived from a normal monkey kidney, was studied in an attempt to characterize the epithelial qualities. Phase contrast microscopy showed dome formation in confluent monolayers and electron microscopic examinations revealed the presence of numerous microvilli on the apical membranes and desmosome between cells. Sonicated cells showed activities of
4295885|The attachment, proliferation, and differentiation of primary cultures of keratinocytes isolated from murine epidermis were monitored after purified cell suspensions were seeded and incubated in vitro on various synthetic membranes. Concomitant studies of the effects of attachment factors added to synthetic membranes before use as substrata for keratinocytes were also done. The study demonstrated that a synthetic membrane composed of nylon was superior to other membranes and to plastic control culture vessels in supporting the growth of murine keratinocytes. Although laminin enhanced initial attachment and proliferation of cells on nylon membranes, the untreated substratum was more effective for extended incubation. Stratification and differentiation of these keratinocytes on the nylon substratum was enhanced by raising confluent cultures (7 d) to the air-medium interface so that they were in contact with medium only from the bottom. Cultures raised for 14 d produced many morphologic markers of the epidermis and closely resembled the architecture of this tissue in situ.
4295974|A new microencapsulation technology, developed for the encapsulation of living cells, has been demonstrated to be useful for the study of growth and differential gene expression using Friend erythroleukemic cells cultured at high cell densities. Using this technology, cultures of FL Clone 745 cells were encapsulated within semipermeable membranes composed of cross-linked alginic acid and poly-l-lysine. Cell growth studies measuring total cell number demonstrated an average generation time of 8.5 h in 5% (vol/vol) microcapsule cultures vs. 8.0 h in suspension cultures. Similar microcapsule cultures were serially propagated for more than 90 cell generations (13 sequential passages) with no significant change in this growth rate. In addition, final culture densities of greater than
20171544|The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of various concentrations of serum on the behavior of neonatal condylar cartilage when cultured in an organ culture system. Mandibular condylar cartilages were obtained from newborn ICR mice, of which the zone of undifferentiated chondroprogenitor cells along with a few layers of young cartilage cells were cultivated at the medium-air interface. The incubation medium included fetal bovine serum at concentrations ranging from 0 to 10%, and the explants were kept in vitro up to 10 d. The serum-free medium maintained the chondrogenic expression, and the overall size of the cartilagenous portion of the explants increased with the decrease of the concentrations of serum in the medium. When explants were labeled with [H]thymidine and were then processed for autoradiography, the peak of labeling was noticed at 48 h, a feature that recapitulated itself in all cultures (73, 140, 175, 201, and 129 labeled cells per chondroprogenitor zone in explants grown in 0, 1, 2.5, 5, and 10%, respectively). It can be concluded that serum-free medium maintains the chondrogenic phenotype of condylar cartilage in vitro.
4295821|Previous studies have shown that extracts from mouse embryos at mid and late stages of development contain factors that exhibit transforming growth factor activity. The work reported here demonstrates that cultured mouse embryos at significantly earlier stages of development produce and release factors that exhibit the characteristic property of transforming growth factors. Specifically, the data demonstrate that embryos cultured from the blastocyst stage in serum-containing medium or in serum-free medium release factors that promote the anchorage-independent growth of normal rat kidney fibroblasts. It is shown that these factors are produced and released by cells derived from the inner cell mass and by trophoblasts. The precise developmental stage when production of these factors first begins has not been determined but our findings suggest that these factors are produced by cell types associated with early postimplantation embryos.
4296415|Primary muscle cell cultures consisting of single myocytes and fibroblasts are grown on flexible, optically clear biomembranes. Muscle cell growth, fusion and terminal differentiation are normal. A most effective membrane for these cultures is commercially available Saran Wrap. Muscle cultures on Saran will, once differentiated, contract vigorously and will deform the Saran which is pinned to a Sylgard base. At first, the muscle forms a two-dimensional network which ultimately detaches from the Saran membrane allowing an undergrowth of fibroblasts so that these connective tissue cells completely surround groups of muscle fibers. A three-dimensional network is thus formed, held in place through durable adhesions to stainless steel pins. This three-dimensional, highly contractile network is seen to consist of all three connective tissue compartments seen in vivo, the endomysium, perimysium and epimysium. Finally, this muscle shows advanced levels of maturation in that neonatal and adult isoforms of myosin heavy chain are detected together with high levels of myosin fast light chain 3.
4295761|Rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) hepatocytes were isolated using a two-step perfusion through the portal vein. A typical perfusion yielded
4296015|Newborn rat adipocyte precursors, isolated from inguinal fat pads of 2 day-old NBR rats proliferate and undergo adipose differentiation in defined medium in the absence of serum when cultivated on polylysine coated dishes in DME-F12 medium supplemented with fibronectin, insulin, transferrin and FGF. After 7 days in culture in these conditions, 90% of the cells have undergone differentiation as measured by the increase of G3PDH specific activity and by the accumulation of triglycerides in their cytoplasm. In contrast, the cells cultivated in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum, have a limited ability to differentiate. These results indicate that newborn rat adipocyte precursors from inguinal fat pads do not require the presence of an undefined adipogenic factor in order to differentiate in culture. In contrast, proliferation and differentiation are dependent on the presence of insulin in the culture medium. Moreover, the data presented in this paper show that the rat adipocyte precursor culture represents a rapid and reproducible system for investigating the processes of adipose tissue development and for studying the negative and positive regulators of the adipose differentiation in a controlled environment.
4296008|Cells of the dental papilla are capable of odontoblastic, fibroblastic, and endothelial differentiation and formation of dentin and the dental pulp. In the present study dental papilla cells, obtained from human tooth buds (HDP cells), were cultured in vitro through 3 to 7 passages. After exposure to prostaglandin E
4296452|Morphologic changes in a rat skeletal muscle cell line (L6) exposed for 1 h to the parenteral antibiotics amphotericin B (AMP), tetracycline-HCl (TET), erythromycin lactobionate (ERY), and cephaloridine (CEP) were characterized by transmission and scanning electron microscopy and compared to cellular release of creatine phosphokinase (CPK). AMP (0.05, 0.1, 0.5 mg/ml) caused a concentration-related swelling of nuclei, endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria. Loss of membrane integrity associated with AMP exposure was evident at the middle concentration and extensive at the high concentration, which correlated well with the 43 and 90% depletion of CPK from the muscle cells, respectively. TET (0.25, 1.0, 2.5 mg/ml) caused dilation of endoplasmic reticulum and cytoplasmic blebbing at the low concentration but had no effect on the cytoplasmic membrane or CPK. Cells exposed to the high concentration of TET had extensive damage to the cytoplasmic membrane, and CPK was completely depleted. ERY (2.5, 5.0, 25 mg/ml) caused a pattern of morphologic changes and CPK depletion similar to TET. CEP (4.0, 20, 50 mg/ml) had no effect on membrane integrity or CPK; however, membranous whorls were prominent in the cytoplasm. A good correlation between CPK release and cytoplasmic membrane integrity was evident and the ability of these agents to release CPK from muscle cells in culture correlated with the known irritancy potential of these parenteral antibiotics. Furthermore, CPK depletion seems to be a reliable indicator of muscle cell damage after cytoplasmic membrane perturbation and is therefore an appropriate index of toxicity in this in vitro muscle irritation model.
4295748|Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUV-EC) grew rapidly in vitro in medium supplemented with epidermal growth factor, fetal bovine serum (FBS) and human diploid fibroblast-conditioned medium. The effect of FBS could be replaced partially by bovine serum albumin, cholesterol, and vitamin E, and completely by further addition of serum dialysate or refeeding every other day. Among these components, fibroblast-conditioned medium is essential for HUV-EC growth. The HUV-EC were cultured serially for over 50 population doublings in the 10% FBS containing fibroblast-conditioned medium and for over 40 population doublings in the serum-free medium. Mitogenic factor(s) present in the medium conditioned by fibroblasts may be related to endothelial cell growth factor and play an important role in angiogenesis and regeneration of vascular endothelium in vitro.
4296621|F9 teratocarcinoma cells differentiate into parietal endodermlike cells when treated with retinoic acid (RA) and cyclic AMP (cAMP). We have previously found that F9 cells can be induced to differentiate by treatment with cAMP in the absence of RA. In the course of determining why other investigators had failed to observe cAMP-induced differentiation, we found that the growth medium played an important role in determining the response of F9 cells to differentiating agents. When F9 cells were grown in minimal essential medium (MEM) and treated with either 8-bromo-cAMP (8BrcA) + 1-methyl, 3-isobutylxanthine (MIX), or dibutyryl cAMP (DBcA) + theophylline (T), they differentiated to parietal endodermlike cells without any requirement for exogenous RA. However, when F9 cells were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DME), DBcA/T failed to induce differentiation alone and required exogenous RA to induce formation of parietal endoderm-like cells. 8BrcA/MIX alone was still able to induce some differentiation, although the extent was not as great as those cells grown in MEM. These results could not be explained by the different growth-promoting properties of the two culture media because there was no difference in the doubling time of F9 cells grown in either medium. Likewise, RA and cAMP both inhibited growth to the same extent in either medium. Inasmuch as almost all published reports on F9 cell differentiation have used DME as a growth medium, and RA with or without DBcA/T as the differentiating agents, these studies would not have had the appropriate conditions to detect the cAMP-induced differentiation of F9 cells.
20171475| Addition of low concentrations of ascorbic acid (5 g/ml to 10 g/ml) to myogenic chick embryo cultures resulted in an early fusion. At 30 h cultures receiving small amounts of ascorbic acid presented fusion rates 3 times that of the control. However, control rates of fusion were not different from those of experimentals at 50 h. No such effect was seen with ascorbic acid added at 24 h of culture, or with ascorbic acid addition to a calcium-deprived system. These findings demonstrate that the calcium binding properties of ascorbic acid can induce precocious myogenic fusion. 
20171536| The stimulatory effects of transforming growth factor  (TGF-) on epidermal growth factor (EGF)-dependent growth of adult and newborn human fibroblasts were investigated. EGF-stimulated growth in low serum of dermal fibroblasts from a 41 year-old adult (HSF-41) was less than half that of newborn foreskin fibroblasts (HFF). The EGF-stimulated growth of HFF after 55 population doublings (HFF-55) was similarly reduced. The decreased growth response to EGF of fibroblasts aged in vivo and in vitro appeared to result principally from a decreased sensitivity to EGF due to a decreased number and affinity of high affinity EGF receptors (H-EGFR). Pre-incubation of HSF-41 and HFF-55 with 25 pM TGF- enhanced the growth responses of these cells to EGF and increased the levels of high affinity EGF-binding by these cells. Thus, the stimulation by TGF- of EGF-dependent growth of human fibroblasts aged in vivo or in vitro is mediated by increased levels of high affinity EGF binding. 
4295987| Sertoli cells from rats aged 15, 20, and 25 d were subcultured onto collagen-coated, plastic dishes. If the collagen was released from the plastic surface by rimming, the floating rafts of collagen showed uniform shrinkage. If the collagen was allowed to remain attached to the plastic, holes appeared in the collagen with cells from rats aged 25 d but not with those of 15 d. Cells from rats aged 20 d caused fewer and smaller holes to appear. The holes were associated with the formation of clumps of spherical cells from which elongated Sertoli cells extended into the surrounding collagen to end near holes. Rhodamine-phalloidin revealed diffusely distributed actin in the spherical cells in contrast to well-developed microfilaments in the peripheral elongated cells. Addition of cytochalasin B (5 g/ml) to the medium prevented contraction of the floating rafts and the development of holes in the attached collagen. In addition, cytochalasin B caused the peripheral cells to become spherical and to separate from the clumps. Moreover, rhodamine-phalloidin revealed that actin in the peripheral cells occurred as clumps without microfilaments when cytochalasin B was present. When Sertoli cells were subcultured onto silicone rubber films, the cells produced wrinkling of the rubber surface within 4 h of plating. These observations were interpreted to mean that Sertoli cells exert local tractional forces on various substrata. These forces require actin, presumably acting by a contractile mechanism. When the collagen is attached to plastic and the cells are organized into clumps with radiating elongated cells (cells from rats aged 25 d), the tractional forces in the elongated cells reorganize the collagen fibers to produce holes. When cells are uniformly distributed (cells from rats aged 15 d), holes are not formed. When the collagen is released from the plastic surface, tractional forces cause the floating rafts to shrink. These interactions of the cells with collagen are likely to be important in determining the shape of the Sertoli cell in vivo, the polarity of the cell, and its biochemical differentiation. 
4296675| We investigated the long-term effects of continuous gamma interferon (-IFN) treatment on A431, a human squamous carcinoma cell line. Cells were grown in an in vitro culture system, which over time produces cohesive cell masses ("tumoroids") exhibiting three-dimensional, histotypically differentiated structures, e.g., keratin "pearls," intercellular bridges (desmosomes), elongated flattened cells (squames) and stratification. The effects of -IFN on cell growth, morphology and stage of differentiation were assessed at different treatment times by light and electron microscopy and by immunohistochemical staining using antibodies to keratins 1 and 14 and to filaggrin, markers of specific stages of keratinocyte differentiation. Our results show that A431 cells have the capacity for spontaneous differentiation, that this capacity is significantly enhanced and accelerated by -IFN treatment leading to terminal differentiation and extensive cell death by 2 wk. Despite continuous exposure to IFN, a small number of viable, undifferentiated cells remain. Their proliferation, evident by 3 wk, reconstitutes the tumoroid which once again contains the full range of differentiating cell types. 
4296721|Oligonucleotide fingerprinting was applied to investigate the relatedness of several cell lines that were established between 1973 and 1977 from a teratocarcinoma. We were able to distinguish cell lines derived at different times. In addition, sublines from one cell line (PYS-2) could be discriminated by using a combination of different probes. Therefore multilocus fingerprinting with oligonucleotides is a useful method for monitoring changes in cell lines kept in culture for many generations.
4296588| Utilizing the technique of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we have examined the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 3 (TGF-3) by embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells, EC-derived differentiated cells and early mammalian embryos. Using a TGF- bioassay, we determined that PYS-2 cells express considerable TGF- activity that cannot be completely neutralized by antibodies specific for TGF-l and TGF-2. We also have determined that PYS-2 cells, as well as F9 EC cells and their differentiated cells, express transcripts for TGF-3. In addition, we have determined that blastocysts, cultured for three days in serum-containing medium, express TGF-3 transcripts. Thus, our data suggest that expression of TGF-3 is initiated during early stages of mammalian development. 
4296258|Cloned mouse keratinocytes (MK-1 cells) display density-dependent growth arrest when reaching confluency in a serum-free medium with a calcium concentration < 0.1 mM, supplemented only with insulin and transferrin. In this quiescent state, greater than 95% of the cell population is in the
4296708|We have developed an improved serum-free medium to optimize the cell growth of bovine granulosa cells. The cells on collagen-coated culture plates proliferated extensively in a nutrient medium supplemented with insulin, heparin binding growth factor-2 (HBGF-2), lipoprotein, and bovine serum albumin (BSA). The cell doubling time at logarithmic phase and final cell density at confluent cultures were equal to those of cultures grown in the presence of medium supplemented with optimal concentration (10%) of fetal bovine serum (FBS). Whereas HBGF-2 or insulin alone had a small mitogenic effect of granulosa cells, lipoprotein or BSA did not. When lipoprotein, BSA, or insulin was added together with HBGF-2, synergistic cell proliferation was observed in all combinations. Insulin or lipoprotein had an additive mitogenic stimulation of these cells in the presence of BSA. After granulosa cells were subcultivated in a serum-containing medium until three generations [8.5 cumulative population doubling level (CPDL)], subsequent subcultivation of the cells in a complete serum-free medium could be achieved up to six generations (14.4 CPDL). These results demonstrate that this serum-free medium can support the optimal cell growth and long-term subcultivation of bovine granulosa cells.
4296159| When primary cultures of fetal human liver cells established on type I collagen gels were compared to sister cultures developed on tissue culture plastic, the cells in contact with type I collagen secreted albumin at a higher rate than those without contact. The albumin secretion was dependent on the presence of hydrocortisone (HC) in the medium. Also, -fetoprotein (AFP), of which the level decreased gradually and became undetectable after 6 d regardless of the presence or absence of HC in the cells cultured on plastic, was maintained for longer periods of time by plating the cells on type I collagen gels in the presence of HC. Different secretion rates of albumin and AFP were observed after Day 13 and Day 16, respectively, between cells maintained on type I collagen gels and those on film plastic. The cells secreted larger amounts of both albumin and AFP in plates coated with type IV or I collagens than with fibronectin after Day 10. The cells cultured on type I collagen gels were cuboidal in shape, whereas those on plastic were flattened in cultures with HC. These data indicate that the secretion of human albumin and AFP is facilitated by synergies between HC and collagenous substrata. 
4295867|Surface wettability is an excellent indicator of the ability of cells to adhere to a culture substrate. We have determined that brief exposure of a hydrophobic culture surface to a propane flame may increase wettability more than 1200% via the deposition of ionic combustion products. Previously nonadherent mouse spinal cord cells will adhere to and differentiate morphologically on a hydrophobic surface after flaming. Central nervous system cells remain adhered to flamed surfaces for periods of 2 mo. or longer and demonstrate spontaneous electrical activity during that time. Secondary modification of a flamed surface with polylysine further enhances the strength of single cell adhesion, thereby retarding mobility and promoting neurite extension. Flaming also enhances the wettability of common culture materials such as glass and polystyrene, as well as metal. Flaming of hydrophobic substrates through masks permits creation of discrete adhesion islands and patterns which may be used for a variety of investigations requiring maintenance of different cell types in separate regions of a culture surface.
4296692|Despite extensive efforts to develop suitable media for rearing the intramolluscan stages of schistosomes, successful in vitro culture of these parasites remains elusive. Recent
4296023|Cellular elements from the mucous membrane of the uterus and oviducts and from peritoneal washings were cultured. The in vitro behavior of these cells was compared to elucidate the histogenesis of endometriosis and the role of various diagnostic procedures. In 65% of the cultured material obtained by uterine-tubal flushing, proliferating cells of the uterine-tubal mucous membrane were present. Their morphology and behavior corresponded to those of cultured cells obtained by separate washing of the uterine cavity and the tubes, respectively, curetted material, and biopsies of endometriosis lesions. Epithelial and stromal cells were identified using phase contrast microscopy, electron microscopy, and immunohistochemical methods. These cell types did not occur in peritoneal washings before the flushing of uterus and tubes. It was therefore assumed that they were detached and transported to the pelvic cavity during the above-mentioned procedures. In view of their intensive proliferation they may form the basis in the development of nodules of endometriosis. This would support the implantation theory concerning the pathogenesis of endometriosis. Interactions between epithelial and mesothelial cells point to the possible role of the latter in encapsulating the endometrial elements.
20171381|Two commercially available serum replacements developed for use in the culture of hybridoma and other mammalian cells were tested for their suitability as replacements for fetal bovine serum in insect cell culture medium. CPSR-1 adn CPSR-3 both supported growth of the insect cell line IPLB-SF-21AE. CPSR-3 supported adequate growth, but cells in medium supplemented with CPSR-1 grew much slower and achieved only about half the final cell density of either FBS or CPSR-3 supplemented medium.
4296426|Micromass cultures from stage 23 and 24 chick wing mesenchyme were grown in serum-containing medium with or without additional ascorbic acid. It was found that ascorbic acid administered as a single pulse or present continuously throughout culture, in concentrations as low as 25 g/ml, was sufficient to abolish 80% of myogenesis as assessed by immunolocalization using muscle-specific antibodies. This effect was not significantly altered when cultures were maintained in a serum-free medium that promotes myogenesis. In contrast to the above findings, spectrophotometric analysis of accumulated sulphated glycosaminoglycans, an indicator of chondrogenesis, was elevated by ascorbate treatment. Furthermore, a similar level of glycosaminoglycan stimulation was found in ascorbate treated stage 23 distal-tip limb cultures that were essentially free of myogenic cells. We conclude, therefore, that the presence of myoblasts in whole-limb cultures has no appreciable inhibitory effects on chondrogenesis.
20171524| Proliferation and differentiation of opossum kidney cells in a serum-free defined medium was investigated and compared to that under conditions in which fetal bovine serum FBS (10%) was employed. Monolayers were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-Ham's F12 nutrient mixture containing insulin (10 g/ml), bovine serum albumin fraction V (1 mg/ml) and fetuin (1 mg/ml). Cells in serum-free medium seeded at 1  10 per cm grew to confluency within 6 to 8 d and formed hemicysts or domes at a frequency equivalent to those in serum-containing medium. Electron microscopy of cultures grown in serum-free medium revealed polarized monolayers with the presence of microvilli and tight junctions. The differentiated characteristics, including sodium-dependent phosphate transport, the inhibition of this transport by parathyroid hormone (PTH), and the generation of cyclic AMP in response to PTH, were preserved in opossum kidney cells grown in serum-free medium. 
20171441| Alpha-smooth muscle actin is currently considered a marker of smooth muscle cell differentiation. However, during various physiologic and pathologic conditions, it can be expressed, sometimes only transiently, in a variety of other cell types, such as cardiac and skeletal muscle cells, as well as in nonmuscle cells. In this report, the expression of actin mRNAs in cultured rat capillary endothelial cells (RFCs) and aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs) has been studied by Northern hybridization in two-dimensional cultures seeded on individual extracellular matrix proteins and in three-dimensional type I collagen gels. In two-dimensional cultures, in addition to cytoplasmic actin mRNAs which are normally found in endothelial cell populations, RFCs expressed -smooth muscle (SM) actin mRNA at low levels. -SM actin mRNA expression is dramatically enhanced by TGF-. In addition, double immunofluorescence staining with anti-vWF and anti--SM-1 (a monoclonal antibody to -SM actin) shows that RFCs co-express the two proteins. In three dimensional cultures, RFCs still expressed vWF, but lost staining for -SM actin, whereas -SM actin mRNA became barely detectable. In contrast to two-dimensional cultures, the addition of TGF- to the culture media did not enhance -SM actin mRNA in three-dimensional cultures, whereas it induced rapid capillary tube formation. Actin mRNA expression was modulated in SMCs by extracellular matrix components and TGF- with a pattern very different from that of RFCs. Namely, the comparison of RFCs with other cell types such as bovine aortic endothelial cells shows that co-expression of endothelial and smooth muscle cell markers is very unique to RFCs and occurs only in particular culture conditions. This could be related to the capacity of these microvascular endothelial cells to modulate their phenotype in physiologic and pathologic conditions, particularly during angiogenesis, and could reflect different embryologic origins for endothelial cell populations. 
4296317|Growth of the MCF-7, T47D, and ZR-75-1 human breast cancer cells was established in a serum-free defined medium (MOM-1) composed of a 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of Ham's F12 medium and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing 15 mM HEPES (pH 7.2), 2 mM 1-glutamine,
4296220| Serum-free tissue culture medium consisting of a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) and Ham's F12 medium is herein shown to support growth of Reuber H-35 cells over several days in culture. Cells were initially plated in serum containing DMEM medium for 3 h. After cell attachment, serum is removed and replaced with a serum-free 1:1 mixture of these two commercially available tissue culture media. The doubling time of cell growth in this unsupplemented serum-free medium was 46 h in lightly plated cultures over the first 5 d. The presence of transferrin (5 g/ml) and insulin (3.3 nM) results in a cell doubling time of 17 h, which equaled the growth rate in medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum. In the absence of transferrin, growth rates in serum-free medium were correlated with the cell density of cultures. Conditioned medium from dense, serum-free cultures has growth-stimulating activity in recipient lightly plated cultures. This simple, serum-free culture medium will facilitate studies on the growth regulation of H-35 rat hepatoma cells. 
4295964| Primary cultures of muscle from normal (line 412) and dystrophic (line 413) chick embryos were exposed to corticosterone-21-acetate (C-21-A) or sodium ibuprofen (Motrin) for 28 d after myotube formation. Ibuprofen (0.5 to 500 g/ml) or C-21-A (0.4 to 40 g/ml (-treated cultures were fixed and assessed semiquantitatively using phase microscopy. On this basis, ibuprofen (50 g/ml) and C-21-A (40 g/ml) seemed to be effective in maintaining both normal and dystrophic muscle cultures. Using ibuprofen and C-21-A at these concentrations, experiments were repeated and analyzed quantitatively. Ibuprofen maintained culture viability (up to 68% more myotubes than untreated controls) but had no significant effect on the number of striated cells. C-21-A effectively maintained culture viability (up to 73% increase) and strongly promoted the formation of striated cells in these cultures (up to a sixfold increase). Both normal and dystrophic cultures were affected similarly by these agents, but the dystrophic cultures showed more consistent if not more extensive improvements in the parameters examined here. Thus, it seems that ibuprofen and C-21-A may affect both normal and dystrophic muscle directly to maintain survival and even promote differentiation. 
20171577|Embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells provide an effective model system for studying growth factor production and regulation during mammalian embryogenesis. Our earlier data indicated that the mouse EC cell lines F9 and PC-13 and the human EC cell line NT2/D1 produce a factor with properties similar to those ascribed to members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family and that production of this FGF-related factor is suppressed when all three EC cell lines are induced to differentiate. Subsequent studies suggested that NT2/D1 EC cells express transcripts for basic FGF (bFGF). The current study confirms and extends these findings using a combination of reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). In this study, the expression of bFGF and other members of the FGF family have been examined in F9 and PC-13 cells in addition to NT2/D1 EC cells. In contrast to NT2/D1 EC cells, bFGF expression could not be detected in F9 and PC-13 EC cells. Additionally, expression of four other members of the FGF family (acidic FGF, int-2, FGF-5, and FGF-6) were not detected in NT2/D1, F9, or PC-13 EC cells. However, expression of another member of the FGF family, the k-FGF oncogene, was detected in NT2/D1, F9, and PC-13 EC cells. Moreover, the expression of this transcript is reduced dramatically when each of the three EC cell lines is induced to differentiate. Taken together, our findings argue that expression of the k-FGF oncogene is predominantly responsible for the FGF-related activity detected in EC cells and that differentiation of these EC cells results in suppression of this oncogene.
4295717|The effects of glucose and arginine on islet hormone biosynthesis were investigated using primary cell cultures prepared from islets of the anglerfish (Lophius americanus). After dispersion under sterile conditions, islet cells were maintained at
4296331|An explant culture procedure has been developed that makes it possible to measure the relative growth capacity of the epithelial and mesenchymal cells of the canine thymus gland. Standardized growth conditions were obtained by size-grading thymic fragments and counting to allow uniform fragment density during culture. After 6 d in culture, outgrowth from the fragments formed colonies that could be classified into epithelial, mixed, or spindle cell type. Uniform fragment size and number in each flask allowed calculation of the total plating efficiency, relative distribution of colony types, and mean colony diameters for thymic fragments collected from fetuses (50 d of gestation), neonates (0 d postpartum), and juveniles (70 d postpartum). Data show age-related changes in the proliferative capacity of the cells in all three colony types. The most significant difference was seen in the epithelium, which showed a 30% reduction in mean colony diameter over the 2 wk between fetal and neonatal ages and a 23% reduction over the postnatal period of 70 d. Significant reductions were seen in the other colony types as well. Because the severity of the effect of many injurious agents is proportional to the rate of growth of the target cells, these data suggest that the thymus gland of the fetus may be more sensitive to physical or chemical injury than is the neonate or adult.
4296622| Epidermal differentiation is accompanied by profound changes in the synthesis of a variety of intracellular proteins and intercellular lipids. In conventional, submerged culture keratinocytes have been shown to lose the ability to synthesize the protein markers of differentiation. They re-express them, however, when they are cultured in medium supplemented with delipidized [retinoic acid (RA)-depleted] serum or in air-exposed cultures using de-epidermized dermis (DED) as a substrate. Recent studies have revealed that acylceramides (AC) and lanosterol (LAN), which are present only in trace amounts in cultures of keratinocytes grown under submerged conditions on DED in medium supplemented with normal serum, become expressed in significant amounts when the culture is lifted to the air-liquid interface. Inasmuch as culture conditions may markedly affect the extent of keratinocyte differentiation, the present study aimed to investigate the effect of normal (RA-containing) or delipidized (RA-depleted) serum and of RA administration on lipid composition (especially of the AC and LAN contents) in cells cultured under submerged and air-exposed conditions. To test a possible effect of dermal substrate (used in the air-exposed model), the lipid composition of keratinocytes grown under submerged conditions on a plastic and on a dermal substrate (de-epidermized dermis, DED) has also been compared. The results revealed that under all culture conditions, RA deprivation of fetal bovine serum resulted in a marked increase of total ceramide content. Even under submerged conditions, the presence of both AC and LAN could be detected. In air-exposed culture, the content of these lipids was markedly increased. Addition of RA at 1M concentration to cultures grown in RA-depleted medium induced marked changes in lipid composition under all culture conditions tested. In cells grown under submerged conditions (both on plastic and on DED) AC and LAN were no longer present in detectable amounts. Also in air-exposed culture, a marked decrease in the content of these lipids was observed. These results suggest that liposoluble serum components, like RA, control the synthesis of lipids that are present in later stages of epidermal differentiation. 
4296975|The structure and function of vascular smooth muscle cells have been extensively investigated with the aid of in vitro culture techniques. The majority of studies have utilized aortic tissue as the source of cells. We present here a method for isolating and culturing smooth muscle cells of the rat superior mesenteric artery, an elasto-muscular vessel that is structurally and functionally different from the aorta. Cells were isolated from partially digested explants and characterized by immunochemical and biochemical techniques. Unlike cultured fibroblasts, the cultured cells stained positive for smooth muscle specific actin. The cells also produced laminin and type IV collagen in culture. This method provides a means for the isolation of large numbers of viable smooth muscle cells from the superior mesenteric artery which can be propagated in culture for in vitro study.
4296219| Two fibroblast-like cell lines were obtained from fins of adults of the medaka, Oryzias latipes, and serially cultured at 27 C. One cell line, which was derived from a fish of the orange-red variety, reached to population doubling level (PDL) 434 on Day 840 by 120 passages. The other, which was derived from a fish of the inbred strain HB32C, reached to PDL 294 on Day 551 by 80 passages. Any symptom of crisis was not detected. The cell lines were named OL-17 and OL-32, respectively. Population doubling time was 29 h for OL-17 cells, and 32 h for OL-32 cells. Density-dependent inhibition of growth was clear in OL-32 cells, but not so obvious in OL-17 cells. Modal chromosome number of OL-17 cells was 50, and that of OL-32 cells was 47 (2N = 48). Plating efficiency of OL-17 cells was about 10%, whereas that of OL-32 cells was about 5%. The use of conditioned medium (80% concentration) increased the plating efficiency of OL-32 cells to more than 25%. 
20171466|Protoplasts of young Pisum Sativum L. seedlings from 7 different genotypes were isolated and regenerated to the callus stage. Germinating embryos were cultivated with cotyledons removed, thus avoiding intracellular starch accumulation in donor tissue. The first lateral shoots provided a source of homogenous meristematic cells which gave rise to sustained protoplast division and resulted in callus formation within 4 weeks. Root formation occurred on hormone-free medium and shoots developed on medium containing kinetin, 2iP or zeatin in the third subculture, when subcultured in monthly intervals.
4296255|We examined the influence of various Millipore filter pretreatments on the amounts of androgen-binding protein (ABP) and transferrin (Trf) found in the outer (OC) and inner (IC) compartment of two-compartment Sertoli cell (Sc) cultures. When Sc were cultured on untreated Millipore filters, less than 10% of ABP was found in OC during 3 initial culture days compared to similar cultures on pretreated filters. Most of the glycoprotein was shown to be bound by the filter. Pretreatment of Millipore filters with 5% bovine serum albumin (BSA) or 2% fetal bovine serum (FBS) maximally saturated the nonspecific protein-binding sites resulting in OC:IC ratio of ABP similar to that found in cultures on polycarbonate membranes, which exhibit very low protein-binding capacity. In contrast to ABP, about 40% of Trf was bound by the Millipore filter on Day 1, with only trace amounts bound thereafter. These differences were due to much higher secretion rate of Trf than ABP, resulting in a relatively smaller fraction of Trf bound to the filter. Again, the nonspecific binding of Trf was greatly reduced by filter pretreatment with 5% BSA or 2% FBS. It is concluded that complete saturation of protein-binding sites of cellulose ester supports is necessary for reliable evaluation of vectorial protein secretion by Sc and other polarized epithelial cells maintained in this type of culture. The implications of partial saturation of protein-binding sites of culture support in interpreting experimental results are discussed.
4296375| The effects of the antibiotics methotrexate and chloramphenicol on somatic embryogenesis in Citrus were evaluated. Relatively low levels (0.1 to 1.0 g/ml) of these antibiotics did not inhibit embryo production from undeveloped ovules of 'Key' lime [C. aurantifolia) (Christm.) Swing.]. Surprisingly, both antibiotics induced the formation of embryogenic callus in these cultures. This is usually a rare event in cultures of undeveloped Citrus ovules, and 'Key' lime is especially recalcitrant. The effects of these antibiotics on embryogenic callus appeared to be limited to the induction stage, because there was no consistent effect, either stimulatory or inhibitory, on established lines of embryogenic callus. 
20171557| A monoclonal antibody was produced against Kunitz soybean trypsin inhibitor (KSBTI) and used in an inhibition enzyme immunoassay (EIA). The inhibition EIA was as sensitive as competetive EIAs and was easily modified for other protein-antibody interactions. The KSBTI assay described detected KSBTI in complex mixtures from 100 g/ml to 50 ng/ml and did not react with the Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitor. The assay was used to examine levels of KSBTI in Glycine max hypocotyl-derived callus tissue. The developing hypocotyls contained 0.21 g KSBTI per mg of fresh tissue. This level of KSBTI rapidly decreased when placed in culture and was undetectable 6 days later. The decrease in KSBTI correlated with the development of callus. 
20171490|Differentiation in keratinocytes can be experimentally modulated by changing the culture conditions. When cultured under conventional, submerged conditions, the extent of cellular differentiation is reduced in the presence of low calcium medium and is enhanced in medium containing physiologic calcium concentrations. Moreover, cultures grown at the air-medium interface or on a dermal substrate, or both, differentiate even further. Herein we report the effect of culture conditions on lipid composition in normal human keratinocytes and three squamous carcinoma cell (SCC) lines that vary in their capacity to differentiate as assessed by cornified envelope formation. Under submerged conditions, the total phospholipid content was lower, triglyceride content higher, and phospholipid:neutral lipid ratio lower in direct correlation to the degree of differentiation in these cultures. When grown at the air-medium interface on de-epidermized dermis, evidence of further morphologic differentiation was found only for well-differentiated SCC cells and normal keratinocytes. Similarly, the phospholipid content remained high in poorly differentiated SCC cells and it decreased modestly in well-differentiated SCC cells and markedly in normal keratinocytes. In all cell lines the triglyceride content was increased and cholesterol content decreased when compared to parallel submerged cultures, but these differences were most pronounced in well-differentiated cell lines. Acylceramides and acylglucosylceramides were found only in normal keratinocytes and only under the most differentiation-enhancing conditions. These studies demonstrate differentiation-related changes in the lipid content of both normal and neoplastic keratinocytes.
4296309|The sensitivity to calcium of the human squamous carcinoma cell line, SCC-13, was demonstrated and characterized. Cultures grown to confluence in the presence of 0.2 to 2 mM calcium had approximately 10-fold higher levels of particulate transglutaminase activity and envelope competence than those grown in low calcium (0.025 to 0.05 mM) medium. Raising the calcium from 0.025 to 1.8 mM induced expression of this enzyme and of competence over the course of a week. Conversely, for cultures grown to confluence in 1.8 mM calcium, subsequent reduction of calcium to 0.025 mM resulted in a substantial decline in transglutaminase over a similar time period. Immunoprecipitable transglutaminase was clearly identifiable in cultures grown in 1.8 mM calcium-containing medium but not in those grown in low calcium medium or in the presence of retinoic acid, suggestive of regulation at the level of mRNA accumulation or translation rather than posttranslational modification.
4295828|A chromosome preparation technique from which a colchicine treatment was omitted yielded longer and less-fragmented chromosomes from lepidopteran cells in culture than those previously depicted in the literature. Greater integrity in chromosome morphology was evident in all cultures prepared without colchicine although with 1075A cells a reduction in fixation time was necessary. Possible satellite chromosomes were evident in these preparations as well as thin, lightly stained regions along the length of some chromosomes. In addition, instances of possible somatic pairing were observed.
4296368| The effect of culture conditions on the ultrastructure and enzyme activities of cultured skin fibroblast cells relevant to the diagnosis of lysosomal storage disorders are reported. The parameters examined were: pH of the culture media, type of media, increasing cell passage, and day of harvest. Ultrastructural changes were defined in terms of the number of lysosome-like inclusion bodies per cell according to a method devised in our laboratory and proven reliable in the detection of affected individuals. Our biochemical results included determination of enzyme activities of -hexosaminidase, -mannosidase, -glucuronidase-lysosmal enzymes, arylsulfatase C, a microsomal marker, and 5' nucleotidase, a plasma membrane marker. Our results indicate that the cellular ultrastructure is more sensitive than enzyme activity to changes in culture conditions. The resulting ultrastructural "artifacts" observed under certain conditions were severe enough to result in a mistaken diagnosis. Due to certain difficulties we had previously encountered in heterozygote cultures (for lysosmal storage disorders) of amniotic cells, we decided to examine heterozygote cultures of skin fibroblasts. From these (preliminary) studies it seems that an elevation in the pH over the physiologic levels in the culture media may help to define between normal individuals and affected heterozygotes. On the basis of our results, we recommend that to minimize false positive ultrastructural results for the diagnosis of lysosomal storage disorders, cultures be grown in minimal essential medium, the pH of the medium carefully monitored to remain below 7.4, examining the cultures not later than cell Passage 8 and no later than Day 10 after subculture. 
4295937|Cultured glomerular epithelial cells form a continuous monolayer of polyhedral-shaped cells. PGE
4296254|This study examines the factors involved in the rapid glycolysis and glycogenolysis that occur during the first stages of hepatocyte culture: a) Shortly after seeding glycolysis, estimated as lactate released to culture medium, increased 10 times in comparison to that reported in vivo. By 8 to 9 h of culture, hepatocytes were nearly glycogen-depleted even in the presence of insulin. b) 6-Phosphofructo-2-kinase remained 100% active during this period. The proportion of the initial active phosphorylase (87%) decreased to 57% by 7 h of culture. c) Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate content was initially similar to that found in liver of fed animals, decreased after seeding and increased thereafter up to four times the initial concentration. In spite of changes in the concentration of this activator, the glycolytic rate remained high and constant. d) ADP and AMP increased sharply after cell plating, reaching values 1.7 and 3.5 times higher. The rise in AMP levels may be involved in the activation of glycolysis and glycogenolysis, because this metabolite is known to act as an allosteric activator of phosphofructokinase and glycogen phosphorylase. This metabolic situation resembles that of cells under hypoxia.
20171529| We have analyzed the ability of the physical substratum to modulate both the ultrastructural and protein synthetic characteristics of the Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) renal cell line. When MDCK cells were seeded on Millipore Millicell CM microporous membrane cell culture inserts they demonstrated a more columnar organization with an increase in cell density sixfold greater than the same cells seeded on conventional plastic substrata. After 1 wk postseeding on the microporous membrane a partial basal lamina was noted, with a contiguous basement membrane being apparent after 2 wk. One-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis was used to analyze detergent-solubilized proteins from MDCK cells maintained on plastic substrata vs. microporous membranes. When proteins were pulse-labeled with [S]methionine, a 55 kDa protein was evident in the cytosolic extract of cells grown on collagen, laminin, and nontreated plastic substrata; but this labeled protein was not evident in similar extracts from cells grown on collagen and laminin-coated microporous membranes. To test if the polarized, basement-membrane secreting phenotype of the MDCK cells could be generated on a microporous membrane without pretreatment with any extracellular matrix (ECM) components, cells were seeded on the Millipore Millicell HA (cellulosic) microporous membrane. This type of substrata does not need a coating of ECM components for cell attachment. A partial basement membrane was formed below cells where the basal surface of the cell was planar, but not in areas where the cell formed large cytoplasmic extensions into the filter. This led us to the conclusion that the microporous nature of the substrata can dictate both ultrastructural and protein synthetic activities of MDCK cells. Furthermore, we suggest that both the planar nature of the basal surface and the microporosity of the substrate are corequisites for the deposition of the basement membrane. 
20171590|Five continuous cell lines were initiated from embryonic tissue of the cotton boll weevil Anthonomus grandis Boheman in a commercially available, serum-free medium (Excell 401) and have undergone in excess of 60 passages. Isoenzyme analysis confirmed that the lines originated from boll weevil tissue. Four of the lines grew as single attached cells of either epithelioid or fibroblastoid morphology. The fifth line, BRL-AG-2, grew primarily as cell aggregates and was found to release ecdysteroids (primarily ecdysone) into the culture medium. Evidence was also obtained suggesting that line BRL-AG-2 synthesizes chitin. Three lines, BRL-AG-1, BRL-AG-3A, and BRL-AG-3C, could be induced to produce an antibacterial factor(s) which was released into the culture medium.
4295827|Embryonic chick cardiac cell cultures, plated on collagen-coated dishes, containing serum-free synthetic media proliferate actively. The basic medium contained Ham's F12 nutrient mixture, fetuin, ascorbic acid, and bovine serum albumin. This medium was supplemented with various combinations of factors: endothelial cell growth supplement (ECGS), epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin (I), transferrin (T), selenium (S), hydrocortisone, and thyroxine or supplemented alone. Basic medium supplemented with ECGS alone contributes to the highest final cell density among all other factors used in various combinations or alone. The final cell density of the control culture with 2% fetal bovine serum was higher than those of all experimental cultures and an additional control culture grown in the basic medium. Combinations of factors without ECGS do not promote significant cell proliferation. Thyroxine is required to induce optimal differentiation and contractility of cardiac myocytes in vitro. Fibronectin and laminin did not show any more influence than collagen did on the growth and maintenance of cardiac myocytes in serum-free media. The proportion of cardiac muscle cells in ECGS-containing media was higher than those in other experimental media and control media with the exception of ECGS and ITS-containing medium that showed lower proportion of cardiac myocytes than that of serum-containing medium on Days 3 and 5. The profiles of incorporation of [
4295774|A rapid method has been developed for measuring the cellular protein content of mono- and multilayered anchorage cultures. Fixed or air dried cultures are stained for 30 min with 0.2% Naphthol Yellow S (NYS) dissolved in 1% acetic acid. Unbound dye is removed by a series of four 2.5 min washes in 1% acetic acid, and protein-bound dye extracted with 10 mM unbuffered Tris base for spectrophotometric optical density determination at 433 nm. The NYS method exhibited a least-squares correlation coefficient of 0.99997 with the Oyama-Eagle Lowry method.
4296137| Hepatocytes were isolated from human fetal liver in order to analyze the direct effects of growth factors and hormones on human hepatocyte proliferation and function. Mechanical fragmentation and then dissociation of fetal liver tissue with a collagenase/dispase mixture resulted in high yield and viability of hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were selected in arginine-free, ornithine-supplemented medium and defined by morphology, albumin production and ornithine uptake into cellular protein. A screen of over twenty growth factors, hormones, mitogenic agents and crude organ and cell extracts for effect on the stimulation of hepatocyte growth revealed that EGF, insulin, dexamethasone, and factors concentrated in bovine neural extract and hepatoma cell-conditioned medium supported attachment, maintenance and growth of hepatocytes on a collagen-coated substratum. The population of cells selected and defined as differentiated hepatocytes had a proliferative potential of about 4 cumulative population doublings. EGF and insulin synergistically stimulated DNA synthesis in the absence of other hormones and growth factors. Although neural extracts enhanced hepatocyte number, no effect on DNA synthesis of neural extracts or purified heparin-binding growth factors from neural extracts could be demonstrated in the absence or presence of defined hormones, hepatoma-conditioned medium or serum. Hepatoma cell-conditioned medium had the largest impact on both hepatocyte cell number and DNA synthesis under all conditions. Dialyzed serum protein (1 mg/ml) at 10 times higher protein concentration had a similar effect to hepatoma cell-conditioned medium (100 g/ml). The results suggest that hepatoma cell conditioned medium may be a concentrated and less complicated source than serum for purification and characterization of additional normal hepatocyte growth factors. 
4296657| These authors attempted to test the effect of anticoagulants on lymphocytes viability by reproducing the procedure used for lymphocyte isolation for various immunologic tests in which blood specimens are allowed to stay at room temperature for 2 h before lymphocytes are isolated. Blood was obtained with three different anticoagulants i.e. heparin, citrate, and CPDA (citrate, phosphate, dextrose, and adenine). Plasma was lyophilized and extracted with ethanol. Dried ethanol extracts were suspended in medium (RPMI 1640 + 10% fetal bovine serum) and incubated with a lymphocyte cell line (MOLT-4). After 24 h of incubation the viability of cells was examined. The following death rates of the cells were observed: heparin - 63  4.6% (mean  SEM), citrate -27  6.7%, and CPDA 6.2  0.6% (P < 0.0005). A significant correlation was found between these results and changes in the concentrations of free fatty acids in the extracts. These results emphasize the importance of choosing the right anticoagulant when the viability of lymphocytes is obligatory. 
4296185|Subpopulations of normal bronchial epithelial cells were identified using a series of marine monoclonal antibodies. These antibodies were used to stain intact bronchial epithelial cells in culture by indirect immunofliiorescence. LAM 2 reacted with 80%, LAM 6 with 75%, LAM 7 with 60%, and LAM 8 with 5% of these cells. Sections of human bronchial epithelium were also stained with these antibodies by immunoperoxidase methods. LAM 2 was found to bind with 80%, LAM 6 with 65%, LAM 7 with 50%, and LAM 8 with less than 1% of bronchial epithelial cells. LAM 2 stained both columnar epithelial cells and basal cells; LAM 6 stained mainly basal cells and only a small proportion of columnar cells; LAM 7 showed specificity for basal cells; LAM 8 distinctly stained single cells in the basal cell layer. These antibodies were previously shown to react with the surface membrane of human lung carcinomas, ranging from the broad reactivity of LAM 2 with small cell and non-small cell lung cancers to the highly restricted reactivity of LAM 8 with small cell carcinomas of the lung. Thus, membrane antigens have been identified in bronchial epithelial cells by monoclonal antibodies which exhibit a similar range of cellular reactivity in vitro as in vivo. Inasmuch as these antibodies recognize subsets of cells which could not be easily distinguished by morphologic characteristics, these reagents may be useful in classifying bronchial epithelial cells.
4296535|Ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum are human hereditary diseases in which patients are cancer prone and demonstrate increased sensitivity to DNA damage by ionizing and ultraviolet radiation, respectively. In culture, both ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum skin fibroblasts show increased synthesis and secretion of the extracellular matrix proteins fibronectin and collagen. To determine whether these differences in protein production result from fundamental abnormalities in regulation of genes associated with cellular interactions, we compared the effects of trifluoperazine and 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate on expression of the extracellular matrix-degrading metalloproteinases, procollagenase and prostromelysin, by normal, ataxia-telangiectasia, and xeroderma pigmentosum fibroblasts. After trifluoperazine treatment the overall levels of these metalloproteinases were much greater in three ataxia-telangiectasia cell strains and in cells from xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups A and D than in normal cells. In contrast, cells from xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group C produced only slightly more procollagenase than normal cells. 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate also induced higher than normal levels of procollagenase in some ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum strains, but less than that induced by trifluoperazine. Because increased extracellular accumulation of matrix-degrading enzymes has long been implicated in metastatic progression, this altered expression of procollagenase and prostromelysin in ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum cells could play an important role in the pathogenesis of various tumors in individuals with these genetic diseases.
4296812|SK-HEP-1 is an immortal, human cell line derived from the ascitic fluid of a patient with adenocarcinoma of the liver. We have determined that these cells are of endothelial origin. Despite the location of the tumor from which SK HEP-1 was derived, the cell line does not have properties of hepatocytes. Northern blot analysis of total cellular RNA shows no messenger RNA for the hepatic-specific proteins albumin, alpha-fibrinogen, or gamma-fibrinogen. Endothelial characteristics are seen by transmission electron microscopy. These features include numerous pinocytotic vesicles, electron dense granules consistent with Weibel-Palade bodies, and abundant intermediate filaments, identified immunocytochemically as vimentin. Cultures grown on plastic dishes grow in bundles of polygonal to spindle-shaped cells. Proteins characteristic for endothelial cells are identified by immunocytochemistry. Addition of basement membrane material (Matrigel) or type I collagen to the cultures induces these cells to organize into a tubular network.
4295998|Explants ranging in size from 0.5 to
4296370|Two cell lines designated HBPC-1 and HBPC-2 have been established from hamster buccal pouch tumors induced by topical 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) and DMBA in conjunction with type 1 herpes simplex virus infection, respectively. The cells are epithelial in morphology, have a doubling time of approximately 18 h, and require bovine serum for optimal growth. The karyotype is aneuploid, with several marker chromosomes, and the cells produce squamous cell carcinomas when transplanted into normal hamster pouch tissues.
4296705|The embryonal carcinoma cell line P19 is derived from mouse teratocarcinomas. These pluripotent cells can be induced to differentiate into a variety of cell types by exposure to various drugs. We used retinoic acid to induce embryonal carcinoma cells to differentiate into neuronlike cells. In this study, we show that changes occur in mitochondria during differentiation of embryonal carcinoma cells to neuronlike cells. We found that various morphologic parameters such as mitochondrial fractional area and mitochondrial size decrease as embryonal carcinoma cells differentiate into neuronlike cells. Similar changes were also observed in mitochondrial DNA content. Stereologic analysis of cell preparations provided a measure of mitochondrial fractional area per cell and mtDNA content was assessed by radiolabeled mtDNA probe. This study establishes that mitochondria are regulated as cells differentiate.
4296428|Three new cell lines were established from tissues of the grass carp, Ctenopharyngodon idella. Derived from the fin, snout, and swim bladder of two apparently healthy diploid fry, these cell lines have been designated GCF, GCS-2, and GCSB, respectively. The cells grew at temperatures between 24 and 36 C with optimal growth at 32 C and have been subcultured more than 50 times since their initiation in August 1986. Two of the lines remained diploid or pseudodiploid after 38 passages. The cells were tested for microbial contamination, and plating efficiencies were determined. The three cell lines were sensitive to Rhabdovirus carpio (RVC), infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV), golden shiner virus (GSV), chum salmon virus (CSV), and infectious pancreatic necrosis virus serotype VR299 IPNV). They were refractory to channel catfish virus (CCV), channel catfish reovirus (CRV), chinook salmon paramyxovirus (CSP), and an Ab serotype of IPNV.
4296951|Endothelial cells of the NMRI mouse strain express a cell surface glycoprotein recognized by the lectin Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA). This study documents a marked organ-specific increase in DBA-specific lectin binding of myocardium-derived endothelial cells (MEC) of the NMRI/GSF mouse during in vitro cultivation. An up to 20-fold increase in DBA binding sites is observed in long-term culture, an increase not found in other NMRI-derived endothelial cell lines (e.g., brain, aorta). The increase appears restricted to DBA in that binding with other lectins (PNA, WGA) was unaltered. NMRI MEC cultures maintain typical endothelial cell attributes such as cobblestone morphology on confluence, expression of endothelial cell-specific surface markers, and production of angiotensin-converting enzyme. Cultures routinely become aneuploid within 4 passages, several passages before upregulation of the DBA binding site(s). Myocardial endothelial cells sorted to obtain
20171574|Conversion (plant production) was obtained from direct-planting alfalfa somatic embryos and encapsulated somatic embryos (artificial seeds) of alfalfa into a growth chamber and greenhouse. The embryos were planted in a commercial soil potting mix under nonsterile conditions in a manner similar to zygotic seed. Embryo maturation with abscisic acid (ABA), prior to planting, gave 48% conversion in soil under growth chamber conditions. Under greenhouse conditions, 64% conversion was obtained when humidified air was used to prevent soil surface drying. Previously, conversion in soil was between 0-6% without the ABA maturation treatment. The replacement of ABA with mannitol or combinations of mannitol and ABA during maturation resulted in lower conversion in the growth chamber than with ABA alone. ABA may be promoting the accumulation of embryo storage reserves such as proteins and carbohydrates for growth after planting in the soil environment.
4296709|One bovine mammary epithelial cell clone, designated PS-BME-C1, and two bovine mammary epithelial cell lines, designated PS-BME-L6 and PS-BME-L7, were derived from mammary tissue of a pregnant (270 day) Holstein cow. The cells exhibit the distinctive morphologic characteristics of mammary epithelial cells and express the milk fat globule membrane protein, PAS-III. They form domes when cultured on plastic substrata and acinilike aggregates when cultured on a collagen matrix. These cells are capable of synthesizing and secreting
4295990|Rat lymphocyte cultures were initiated in minimal essential medium containing 0, 0.01, 1.0, or 10 mg/l of folic acid to investigate the influence of folic acid on cell kinetics, chromosome aberration, and sister chromatid exchange (SCE) frequencies. No significant difference was observed between cultures with and without folic acid in mitotic index or cell cycle kinetics as judged by the numbers of average lymphocyte divisions. However, a sequential reduction in the number of chromatid gaps occurred as the concentration of folic acid increased. On the other hand, addition of folic acid did not significantly affect the SCE frequency. Although folic acid does not seem to alter SCE formation, its significant influence in the reduction of chromatid gaps suggests that caution should be exercised in selecting a medium regarding folic acid content especially because gaps alone are produced by certain dose levels of some chemical clastogens.
4296486|An adriamycin-resistant human breast tumor cell line <tex-math>$MDA-A1^R$</tex-math> was generated by step-wise selection in increasing concentrations of drug from the parent cell line MDA-MB-231. <tex-math>$MDA-A1^R$</tex-math> cells grow as loosely attached cell aggregates with a doubling time of 28-32 h; the MDA-MB-231 parent cell line grows as a standard monolayer culture with a 20-h doubling time. The <tex-math>$MDA-A1^R$</tex-math> cell line is highly resistant to adriamycin compared to the parent cell line, and is cross-resistant to velban and colchicine suggestive of a multidrug resistance (MDR) phenotype. <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> cells exhibit reduced net adriamycin content as compared to the parent cell line. The MDR-associated P-glycoprotein gene is amplified approximately 10- to 30-fold in <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> cells. P-glycoprotein sequences are overexpressed in the resistant cells and are stable for up to 13 wk after drug removal. Moreover, <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> cells show the presence of very high levels of P-glycoprotein. <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> is thus an in vitro model system to study the mechanism of MDR in human breast cancer.
4296215|A simple, rapid method for estimating the viability of isolated islets of Langerhans with fluorescent dyes is described. Low concentrations of acridine orange and propidium iodide (AO/PI) were used to visualize living and dead islet cells simultaneously. AO/PI-stained islets can be divided into three distinct groups. Group A islets fluoresce green, contain insulin, and have normal ultrastructure; group C islets fluoresce primarily red, contain little or no insulin, and have cells with disrupted cellular membranes. Group B islets fluoresce red, green, and yellow. The yellow color is due to the addition of two primary colors from the superimposed red and green fluorescing cells. In this assay, the interpretation that red islet cells are dead and green islet cells are alive was confirmed by sequentially staining single islet cells with AO/PI and try pan blue. The observation that red islets are dead was confirmed by heat-killing, enzymatically damaging, treating with ethanol, or depriving islets of nutrients and observing the red fluorescence. This assay should be useful in studies where the assessment of islet viability is essential.
4296072|Different batches of commercially available bovine serum albumin (Cohn fraction V) were tested in a serum-free medium for their ability to stimulate thymidine incorporation in erythroid cells of fetal bovine liver. All preparations stimulated thymidine incorporation. Crystallized, charcoal-treated, or fatty acid-free albumin had substantially lower thymidine incorporation-stimulating activities than the crude preparations. The albumin preparations also had a synergistic effect with respect to erythropoietin on erythroid cells from rat liver, a typical property of erythrotropins. One gram of one of the batches of Cohn fraction V was fractionated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The fraction with thymidine incorporation-stimulating activity had a similar elution position as erythrotropin isolated from fetal bovine serum. Further purification using reversed-phase HPLC in the presence of trifluoroacetic acid and heptafluorobutyric acid and gel permeation HPLC resulted in the isolation of a factor that is very similar to fetal bovine serum erythrotropin. It has practically the same specific activity as the purified fetal peptide in the rat liver bioassay. These results suggest that many of the beneficial effects of the albumin preparations added as supplement of serum-free tissue culture media may be due to the presence of erythrotropin-like factors.
20171578| Both retinoic acid and 17-estradiol formed covalent bonds with proteins of the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7. Two-dimensional gel patterns of the labeled proteins were unique for each ligand. There were four major retinoylated proteins in MCF-7 consisting of two doublets with molecular masses of 37 kDa and 20 kDa. These proteins were designated 37a, 37b, 20c, and 20d. The extent of retinoylation was very low in a 55 kDa protein that we previously identified in the human myeloid leukemia cell line HL60 [Takahashi, N. and Breitman, T. R. (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 5159-5163]. These results indicated that the protein substrates for retinoylation may vary among cell-types. About 10 proteins were labeled from 17-estradiol. Two of these proteins had mobilities that were identical to the retinoylated proteins 37a and 20c. These results indicate that in MCF-7 cells there are two proteins that can be retinoylated and labeled from estradiol. The demonstration that some ligands of the steroid/thyroid receptor family are covalently linked to cellular proteins suggests new mechanisms for the many effects of these agents on cells. 
4295742|Zwitterion buffers are often used to modulate the pH of cell culture medium but their effect on cultured cells is controversial. We found that addition of 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES) caused superoxide dismutase (SOD) inhibitable increases in nitroblue tetrazolium dye reduction and SOD and catalase inhibitable decreases in the growth of cultured bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cells. The findings suggest that HEPES stimulates endothelial cells to make toxic oxygen metabolites that contribute to decreased cell growth.
4296732|Microvascular endothelial cells from the adult rat brain were cultured on Matrigel and found to express many differentiated properties including secretion of prostacyclin (PGI
20171388|The upper thermal limit for maintenance of eleven mosquito cell lines was studied. Although most cell lines could be grown at 32 C to 34 C, Anopheles stephensi cell line could be maintained at 37 C. At higher temperatures initial growth rate was higher, but yield of cells after about a week of incubation was lower than at the standard temperature (28 C). Replication of several flaviviruses in Aedes albopictus cell cultures adapted to 34.5 C was faster, and viral titers were higher than at 28 C.
4296518|Cultivation of a Spodoptera exigua cloned cell line (SE-UCR-1A) for 8 to 9 mo. in a medium containing increasing amounts of bromodeoxyuridine (BUdr) resulted in the selection of a BUdr-resistant subline unable to grow in TNMFH medium supplemented with HAT (hypoxanthine, 10
20171377| The insulin-producing cell line RINm5F, has been used in short-term experiments to evaluate insulin secretion. We sought to maintain the responsiveness of these cells to stimuli for up to 2 days. We examined the course of new insulin synthesis over this period by measuring at intervals immunoreactive insulin (IRI) in two parts: IRI in the medium (M) and IRI extracted from the cells (C). Control cells were incubated in RPMI 1640/2.8 mM glucose/10% fetal bovine serum/200 g/ml bacitracin (to prevent insulin degradation). The addition of dibutyryl cAMP 10 mM to the experimental dishes significantly increased total (M+C) IRI at 48 hr to 37% above the insulin content of the control dishes (p&lt;0.01). Theophylline 10 mM increased total (M+C) IRI by 24% over control (p&lt;0.05) after 24 hrs. Glucose, glyceraldehyde, leucine, arginine, glucagon and tolbutamide, other stimulants of insulin production, had no effect. Under the experimental conditions reported here, including the use of bacitracin, IRI synthesis can be studied for up to 48 hr. 
4296376|Previous studies have demonstrated that mouse embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells produce at least two growth factors: one related to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and another related to basic fibroblast growth factor (FGFb). Since human EC cell lines are being used with increased frequency, the current study examined whether human EC cells produce growth factors, in particular those produced by mouse EC cells. In this study, it was determined that the human EC cell line NT2/D1 produces a heat-labile heparin-binding growth factor that behaves like FGF in a bioassay. Three additional criteria suggest that this factor is closely related or identical to FGFb. The factor from NT2/D1 EC cells, bovine FGFb and FGFb produced by the human hepatoma cell line SK-HEP-1 elute from heparin at similar salt concentrations. The factor produced by NT2/D1 EC cells exhibits a thermal stability curve that is nearly identical to those for bovine FGFb and FGFb from SK-HEP-1 cells. Lastly, NT2/D1 and SK-HEP-1 cells express transcripts of the same size that hybridize with a cDNA probe for human FGFb. In the course of these studies it was determined that NT2/D1 EC cells also express several transcripts that hybridize with a cDNA probe for the human PDGF A-chain. Thus, our findings suggest that the pattern of growth factor production by human and mouse EC cells is evolutionarily conserved.
4296843| We have developed a serum-free system to culture postembryonic growth plate chondrocytes while maintaining some important phenotypic characteristics of their tissue of origin. This serum-free medium was as effective as medium containing 10% newborn bovine serum (NBS) for recovering the cells from enzymatic isolation. Surface secretory activity of chondrocytes cultured in monolayer, assessed through scanning electron microscopy, was also comparable to cells grown in medium containing serum. The effects of growth hormone (GH) and insulinlike growth factor-I (IGF-I) were also studied using the serum-free medium. GH had no effect on cell density and morphology of the cells compared to the control without the hormone. In contrast, chondrocytes grown in medium containing IGF-I had a marked increase in cell density after 3 days and presented similar morphologic characteristics to cells grown in the presence of NBS. The growth factors required for proliferation of chondrocytes cultured in the serum-free medium are IGF-I and fibroblast growth factor (100 ng/ml, respectively). Addition of ascorbic acid to the serum-free medium (0 to 50 g/ml) produced a dose-dependant decrease in cell proliferation. This medium should provide a useful tool for studying the effects of different growth factors/hormones in the regulation of longitudinal bone growth and their interactions. 
4296119|The distribution and organization of the extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins laminin, fibronectin, entactin, and type IV collagen were investigated in primary colonies and secondary cultures of bovine lens epithelial cells using species-specific antisera and indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. Primary cell colonies fixed in formaldehyde and permeabilized with Triton X-100 displayed diffuse intracellular patterns for type IV collagen and entactin, observed to a similar degree throughout the colonies. In contrast, thick bundles of laminin and fibronectin were located on the basal cell surfaces and in between cells in the densely packed center of the colonies, and as "adhesive plaques" and fine extracellular matrix cords in the sparsely populated (migratory) outer edge of the colonies. The distribution of ECM proteins observed in secondary lens epithelial cell cultures was similar to that observed at the periphery of the primary colony. Extraction of the secondary cell cultures with sodium deoxycholate confirmed that laminin and fibronectin were deposited on the basal cell surface. Indeed, the patterns of laminin and fibronectin deposition suggested that these proteins codistribute. These results establish that lens epithelial cells in culture can be used as a model system to study the synthesis and extracellular deposition of the basement membrane proteins, laminin and fibronectin.
4296469|Positively charged liposomes have been shown to inhibit the proliferation of lymphocytes induced by various polyclonal activators. We demonstrated that this inhibition is essentially restricted to early phases of activation. B cell proliferation, induction of suppressor cells, and cytotoxic activities are all profoundly inhibited, whereas T4+ cells response to mitogenic stimulation is only moderately affected. The results are discussed in terms of membrane perturbations potentially induced by liposome-lymphocyte interactions.
4296422|Seven cell lines established from a diethylnitrosamine (DEN(-induced forestomach carcinoma (<tex-math>$DEN_3$</tex-math>) of a BALB/c mouse and its six pulmonary metastatic foci were used to study the biological and functional diversity of tumor cells. <tex-math>$DEN_3$</tex-math> is a highly tumorigenic line capable of forming lung metastases readily. Six metastatic nodules were isolated from the lungs of syngeneic mice and six cell lines were established. The cell lines differed in characteristics such as tumorigenicity, metastatic capability, and in vivo and in vitro growth properties. Radiation sensitivity of these cell lines was examined by exposure, at near confluency stage of in vitro growth, to doses of 2.5 to 50 Gray (Gy) X-rays (1 Gy = 100 rads). Shortly after exposure (approximately 5 min), the cells were harvested and 10<sup>5</sup> cells were cultured or inoculated into syngeneic mice, or both. Growth of three of the six cell lines tested was prohibited by 5 Gy. However, some populations from the other cell lines were able to survive 5 or 10 Gy. Progenies of the cells that survived primary radiation exposure after several in vitro passages were able to withstand another exposure of the same magnitude but not a higher dose. The X-rayed survivor cells also maintained their tumorigenic potential.
4295953|A monolayer culture system has recently been developed for the extended growth and serial passage of normal rat mammary epithelial (RME) cells. In this system the cells undergo greater than 20 population doublings when grown on type I collagen-coated tissue culture dishes in Ham's F12 medium supplemented with insulin, hydrocortisone, epidermal growth factor, prolactin, progesterone, cholera toxin, and 5% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The purpose of the present studies was to define additional growth factors that would allow equivalent RME cell proliferation in serum-free medium. Ethanolamine (EA) was effective at reducing the FBS requirements for RME cell proliferation and at its optimum concentration did so by greater than 20-fold. Even with optimum levels of EA there was essentially no cell proliferation in the absence of FBS. However, addition of bovine serum albumin (BSA) to the hormone, growth factor, and EA-supplemented medium resulted in substantial proliferation in the absence of serum, and the further addition of transferrin (T) potentiated this effect. Thus, in this culture system, replacement of FBS with EA, BSA, and T resulted in RME cell proliferation in primary culture which was equivalent to that obtained in the 5% FBS-containing medium.
4296000| The potent fungal metabolite cytochalasin D (CD) and cationized ferritin (CF) are used in combination to test for negative charge distribution on blebs (knobs). Two established human epithelial cell lines, WISH and HeLa, that display blebs in various phases of the cell cycle or under certain culture conditions (37,46) are investigated. CD alone, applied at a low concentration (1.0 g/ml) and for a short time period (3 min), causes blebs to appear as the prevalent surface feature. These are filled mainly with free ribosomes. Additionally, feltlike mats, presumed to be disorganized, compacted microfilaments, are formed directly beneath the cell membrane. These are especially evident in the cortical cytoplasm below the blebs or bleb clusters. CF (0.345 mg/ml), applied for a 5-min period after CD administration (1.0 g/ml) for 3 min, appears along the surface of microvilli, at the base of blebs, and in vesicles beneath the bleb clusters. In some cases, microfilaments (6 nm in diameter) are closely related to the vesicles. CF does not preferentially bind to the apical cell membrane of blebs. Above areas of the subplasmalemmal microfilaments, CF membrane binding is apparent, even under circumstances where the filaments are disorganized by cytochalasin treatment. These results seem to show the following: (a) bleb membranes are different from the remainder of the cell and do exhibit a loss of negative charge and (b) surface charge may be dependent on the presence or structural integrity of membrane-related 6-nm microfilaments. 
4296389|The adhesion and proliferation of mammalian fibroblasts (Flow 7000) on the surface of hydrophilic (copolymer of N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone and methyl methacrylate) and hydrophobic [polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) stereocomplex] hydrogels with a wide range in water content were studied morphologically and quantitatively. It was demonstrated that cell proliferation on hydrogels by a static culture method decreased as the water content of the gels increased. However, it is remarkable that the cell proliferation on PMMA hydrogels with a high water content is equivalent to that on glass Petri dishes. The results obtained in the proliferation of cells on the surface of these hydrogels closely correspond to the state of cell adhesion. When fresh medium or air was perfused from the opposite side of the PMMA hydrogel membrane on which the cells were proliferating (perfusion method), the cells continued to grow into a higher density than with the conventional static culture method. In the case of fresh medium perfusion, the amount of proliferated cell was dependent on both the permeability of the membrane and the density of the membrane "scaffolding." Virus multiplication in the cultured cells increased in proportion to the cell density, whereas the cell function was similar in both culture methods.
4296057|A new cell line designated NAS 2BL has been established from a rat nasal tumor induced by inhalation of the direct-acting carcinogen methylmethane sulfonate. The cells are epithelial in morphology, have a generation time of 34 h, require 10% fetal bovine serum for optimal growth, and exhibit keratinization at confluence. The karyotype is aneuploid, with several marker chromosomes, and the cells are transformed by the criterion of nude mouse turmorigenicity.
4295978|The transforming protein coded for by the Ki-ras oncogene, v-p21, localizes at the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane. A method is presented whereby the appearance of v-p21 in Kirsten murine sarcoma virus-transformed cells can be detected by flow cytometry, using a monoclonal anitbody to v-p21 and methods modified from immunofluorescence microscopy. The method is sufficiently sensitive to differentiate between cellular and viral p21 levels, to detect small subpopulations of virus-transformed cells, and to monitor changes in p21 expression in response to physiologic variables. The method provides a rapid, quantitative means to investigate the expression of an intracellular transforming protein in heterogeneous cell populations.
20171359|In this report we describe a new apparatus which has been developed for the automated selective dissociation of multicellular spheroids into fractions of viable cells from different locations in the spheroid. This device is based on the exposure of spheroids to a 0.25% solution of trypsin under carefully controlled conditions, such that the cells are released from the outer spheroid surface in successive layers. Study of the spheroid size, number of cells per spheroid, and sections through the spheroid with increasing exposure to trypsin demonstrate the effectiveness of this technique. The technique has been successfully used on spheroids from five different cell lines over a wide range of spheroid diameters. We also present data detailing the effect of varying the dissociation temperature, the mixing speed, the trypsin concentration, and the number of spheroids being dissociated. The new apparatus has several advantages over previous selective dissociation methods and other techniques for isolating cells from different regions in spheroids, including: a) precise control over dissociation conditions, improving reproducibility; b) short time to recover cell fractions; c) ability to isolate large numbers of cells from many different spheroid locations; d) use of common, inexpensive laboratory equipment; and e) easy adaptability to new cell lines or various spheroid sizes. Applications of this method are demonstrated, including the measurement of nutrient consumption rates, regrowth kinetics, and radiation survivals of cells from different spheroid regions.
20171586|Sodium butyrate (NaB), a 4-carbon fatty acid, has been reported to activate the metallothionein (MT) gene in certain carcinoma cell lines. Because the effects of NaB are dependent on the cell type investigated, this study was conducted to determine if NaB and its homologues induce MT in rat primary hepatocyte cultures. Hepatocytes were grown on monolayer for 12 h and subsequently treated with formate, acetate, propionate (NaP), NaB, and valeric acid for 10 to 58 h. To examine their interaction with known MT inducers, cadmium (Cd), zinc (Zn), or dexamethasone (Dex) were added to some cultures. MT protein in the cells was quantitated by the Cd-hemoglobin assay; MT-1 mRNA was analyzed by Northern blot hybridizations with oligonucleotide probes, and quantitated by slot-blot analysis. Among the 1 to 5 carbon carboxylic acids, only NaP (3 carbon) and NaB (4 carbon) induced MT. NaP and NaB alone produced a moderate increase in MT two- to fourfold over control), but when combined with Cd or Dex, an additive increase was observed. However, when combined with Zn, a synergistic increase was detected. NaB and Zn synergistically increased MT protein, but produced only an additive increase in MT mRNA, suggesting the involvement of some posttranscriptional event(s) in the NaB-Zn induction of MT. In conclusion, NaP and NaB induced MT in normal cultured rat hepatocytes, producing an additive increase in MT protein with Cd and Dex, and a synergistic increase in MT protein with Zn.
20171407|Androgenesis occurred from chile pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) anthers incubated in a continuous warm environment (29 C) with continuous light. Forty plantlets and embryoids were retrieved from anther cultures and analyzed for isozyme markers. Of these, 35 exhibited a single allele for markers suggesting microscope origin, while 5 were heterozygous indicating somatic tissue origin. Chromosome numbers were confirmed for 21 plantlets, of which 16 were haploid and 5 were diploid. However, two plants exhibited a single allele for an isozyme marker but possessed the diploid chromosome number, suggesting spontaneous doubling. Anther cultures also produced callus. Nearly 92% of the slow-growing calli sampled were heterozygous for the isozyme marker, suggesting somatic tissue origin. More than 46% of the fast-growing calli exhibited only one allele for the marker, indicating microspore origin. Callus did not regenerate plantlets. The occurrence of both heterozygous and homozygous diploid plantlets from pepper anther cultures has important implications for applied breeding programs.
4296806| A method of culturing human breast epithelium is described in which viable explants can be maintained in protein-free medium while retaining the capacity of responding to added hormones and growth factors for at least 7 days. Culture parameters were chosen to provide maximum sensitivity of detection of proliferative responses by autoradiography. Under basal conditions, the mean thymidine labeling index of the explants was 0.08%. After stimulation with insulin, hydrocortisone, and cholera toxin (I,H,CT), a combination known to stimulate proliferation in human breast epithelium in vitro, the mean labeling index was 15.7%. Stimulation of explants with epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)- resulted in mean labeling indices of 6.6 and 10.8%, respectively. Autoradiography at the ultrastructural level demonstrated that in I,H,CT-stimulated explants the majority of the labeled cells were luminal, with only 1.5% being basal cells. In contrast, after EGF and TGF- basal cells accounted for 11.5 and 18.5% of the labeled population. These results indicate that this system provides an in vitro assay of proliferative activity in the normal human breast that enables comparisons to be made between both the luminal and the basal cells in the explants and their counterparts in monolayer culture prepared from flow sorted cells. Thus, growth responses dependent on cell-to-cell interactions or stromal modulation can be identified. 
4296407|A method is described for the preservation and subsequent recovery of hepatocytes obtained by collagenase perfusion of cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) livers. The fresh cells are suspended in fetal bovine serum containing 10% dimethylsulfoxide and, using a microprocessor-controlled, liquid nitrogen freezing chamber and a specific cooling protocol, processed in such a way that they can be stored in liquid nitrogen for several months and still restored to active culture. When the cryopreserved cells were established in culture, they were found to actively synthesize and secrete both albumin and apolipoprotein A-I. That, taken together with morphologic evidence, was viewed as indication that the cells recovered in culture were in fact hepatocytes and not some other cell type from the monkey liver. The availability of this procedure for storing hepatocytes should contribute significantly to the efficient use of nonhuman primates as models with which to study hepatic metabolism.
4296669|The lens of the eye is one of the rare organs in which tumors do not occur spontaneously. It therefore appeared to us that lens cells would not present the background of spontaneous transformation toward malignancy found with many other cell cultures. We have cultured C3H/HeA mouse lens explant (MLE) cells for 70 wk and analyzed changes in malignancy-related phenotypes in function of the number of passages. In vitro, we studied morphology, colony forming efficiency on tissue culture plastic substrate (CFEtc) and in soft agar, population doubling time, saturation density, and invasiveness into precultured chick heart fragments. In vivo, tumorigenicity, invasion, and metastasis were analyzed after injection of cell suspensions subcutaneously and intraperitoneally, after implantation of cells aggregated to collagen sponges under the renal capsule and after implantation of cell aggregates subcutaneously into the tail and into the pinna. The CFEtc, population doubling time, and saturation density increased as the number of passages of culture in vitro increased, but colony formation in soft agar was never observed. MLE cells till passage 16 were not invasive in vitro, but hereafter consistently were found to be invasive. After about 17 passages, corresponding to 25 wk of culture, MLE cells acquired the capacity to form tumors in syngeneic mice. These tumors were invasive but metastases were not observed. We concluded that MLE cells acquired in an apparently spontaneous way a number of malignancy-related phenotypes, without, however, reaching the stage of metastasis.
4295901|We examined cellular protein content in four temperature-sensitive (ts) mutants of rat 3Y1 fibroblasts (3YltsD123, 3Y1tsF121, 3Y1tsG125, and 3Y1tsH203) under various conditions of culture that affect cell proliferation. When proliferation of the ts mutants was inhibited at a nonpermissive temperature (
4296936|The successful establishment of a postcrisis SV-40 T antigen transformed epithelial cell line, 1HAEo-, which retains tight junctions and vectorial ion transport, is described. Immunocytochemical analysis of 1HAEo-cells shows a defined pattern of cytokeratin staining and a characteristic pericellular localization of the adhesion molecule cellCAM 120/80, indicating the presence of junctional complexes. The presence of both tight junctions and desmosomes has been confirmed by electron microscopy. Cell monolayers have good transepithelial resistance measured in Ussing chambers. Cells increase chloride ion transport in response to addition of agents that raise either intracellular cAMP or calcium, measured either by
4296445|This paper describes a method for the preparation of co-cultures of rat heart cells and bovine adrenal chromaffin para neurons. The most suitable condition for heart cell isolation was when a combination of trypsin-DNAse I in Locke's solution was used for digestion. The best co-culture conditions were obtained when
4296566| When embryonic retina is dissociated into a single cell suspension and maintained in stationary culture, a population of flat cells is found on the culture dish. We have carried out a morphologic and immunologic study of the emergence of this population in vitro. Ten- and fourteen-day-old chick embryo retinas were dissociated with trypsin, seeded on glass cover slips for various times, and prepared for scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and immunofluorescence (IF) for Vimentin, an intermediate filament protein. SEM indicates that the characteristic flat cell morphology is initiated in some cells in as little as 30 min after the start of the culture. Not all of the cells that attach flatten. As incubation proceeds, small clusters of cells that had formed in suspension attach to the substrate, and flat cells emerge from them. The flattened cells are positive for Vimentin by IF within 10 min of attachment. The percent of fluorescent cells found on the substrate is constant during the time in culture. This suggests that flat cells do not attach first, followed by neural cells, but that the neural cells and flat cells attach to the dish at the same rate. When aggregates that had formed in suspension attach to the substrate, they are anchored by flat cells that migrate out of the aggregate. Since Vimentin appears in the cultured cells within 10 min, it is unlikely that it has been newly synthesized. Thus, the same cells that contained Vimentin in the retina now express it as flat cells. This supports the hypothesis that flat cells derive from the same cells in the retina that give rise to Mller cells. We have also observed the emergence of a population of cells with short (0.5 m) microvilli that appear within 8 h of culture. They seem to be a distinct subpopulation of the cells on the upper portion of attached clusters. 
4296500| In vitro, human dermal fibroblasts (HDF) differentiate through morphologically and biochemically identified compartments. In the course of this spontaneous differentiation through mitotic and postmitotic states, a tremendous increase in cellular and nuclear size occurs. Induction of postmitotic states can be accelerated by chemical (e.g., mitomycin C) or physical (e.g., x-ray) treatments. Such experimentally induced postmitotic HDF cells support very efficiently the growth of cutaneous epithelial cells, i.e. interfollicular keratinocytes and follicular outer root sheath cells, especially in primary cultures starting from very low cell seeding densities. The HDF feeder system provides more fundamental and also practical advantages, i.e. use of initially diploid human fibroblasts from known anatomic locations, easy handling and excellent reproducibility, and the possibility of long-term storage by incubation at 37 C. Conditions for the cryogenic storage of postmitotic HDF cells in liquid nitrogen are presented and related to the feeder capacity for epithelial cell growth. Because postmitotic HDF cells preserve intact feeder properties after long-term storage, the immediate availability of feeder cells and the possibility to repeat experiments with identical materials further substantiate the usefulness of this feeder system. 
4295726|This laboratory recently reported that normal human mesothelial cells require epidermal growth factor (EGF) and hydrocortisone (HC), in addition to fetal calf serum and a complex defined medium component, in order to grow optimally in surface culture (9). We report here that this normal cell type also forms large colonies at high efficiency in semi-solid medium, but exhibits more stringent serum and EGF requirements for anchorage-independent than for surface growth. Mesothelial cells are unable to divide at all in semi-solid medium without added EGF or with less than 2% serum, whereas they grow slowly but progressively in surface culture under such conditions. In semi-solid medium containing 20% serum and HC, mesothelial cells are stimulated to divide by the addition of as little as 30 pg/ml purified EGF. Human urine or male mouse plasma could substitute for purified EGF, yielding growth commensurate with the levels of EGF in these biological fluids previously measured by others using radioreceptor and radioimmune assays. Thus growth of mesothelial cells in semi-solid medium can serve as a highly sensitive assay of EGF biological activity which is unaffected by the presence of serum proteins. In addition, our results demonstrate that fetal calf serum does not provide mitogenic levels of EGF to cultured cells, raising the question of the identity of plasma and serum mitogens.
20171408| The proto-oncogene c-myc, whose gene product has a role in replication, is overexpressed in the human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cell line. Treatment of HL-60 cells with an antisense oligo-deoxyribonucleotide complementary to the start codon and the next four codons of c-myc mRNA has previously been observed to inhibit c-myc protein expression and cell proliferation in a sequence-specific, dose-dependent manner. Comparable effects are seen upon treatment of HL-60 cells with dimethylsulfoxide (MeSO), which is also known to induce granulocytic differentiation of HL-60 cells. Hence, the effects of antisense oligomers on cellular differentiation were examined and compared with MeSO. Differentiation of HL-60 cells into forms with granulocytic characteristics was found to be enhanced in a sequence-specific manner by the anti-myc oligomer. No synergism was observed between the anti-myc oligomer and MeSO in stimulating cellular differentiation. In contrast, synergism did appear in the inhibition of cell proliferation. Finally, the anti-c-myc oligomer uniformly inhibited colony formation in semisolid medium. It is possible that further reduction in the level of c-myc expression by antisene oligomer inhibition may be sufficient to allow terminal granulocytic differentiation and reverse transformation. 
20171386| The analysis of lipoprotein synthesis and secretion in primary hepatocytes has been restricted by the short-term viability and low proliferative response of hepatocytes in vitro. During this investigation a serum-free medium formulation was developed that supports long-term maintenance (&gt; 70 d) and active proliferation of primary baboon hepatocytes. Examination of proliferating cells by electron microscopy revealed a distinctive hepatocyte ultrastructure including intercellular bile canaliculi and numerous surface microvilli. High levels of secreted apolipoproteins A-I and E were detected in the tissue culture medium by gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis. Immunoprecipitation of proteins from [S]-methionine labeled tissue culture medium revealed the synthesis and secretion of numerous plasma proteins. Metabolic labeling of cells with [S]-methionine followed by single-spin density gradient flotation of the media demonstrated that apolipoproteins were being secreted in the form of lipoprotein particles with buoyant densities corresponding to the very low density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein range, and to the high density lipoprotein range. The labeled apolipoproteins included
4296544| A human macrophagelike cell line which grows in serum-free medium was established from a histiocytic lymphoma cell line, U-937. U-937 cells failed to differentiate into macrophagelike cells in serum-free medium plus 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (TPA). Fibronectin and albumin in serum were necessary for differentiation of U-937 cells into macrophagelike cells in enriched RDF medium supplemented with insulin, transferrin, ethanolamine, selenite, egg yolk lipoprotein (eRDF-ITESL medium). The established cell line exhibited several characteristic properties of macrophage such as nitroblue tetrazolium reduction, phagocytic and -naphthylbutyrate-esterase activities, and tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1 production. At present the cells have been continuously maintained in eRDF-ITESL medium through over 150 passages. 
4296584|Fibronectin and heparin-binding growth factors (HBGF) are essential for growth of cultured endothelial cells. The stimulation of endothelial cell growth by HBGF type one (HBGF-1) in particular requires heparin or a similar glycosaminoglycan. The requirement for fibronectin and heparin for HBGF-1-stimulated endothelial cell growth may be related. HBGF-1 absorbed to the natural subcellular matrix of endothelial cells supports cell growth.
4296301|Somatic embryos of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] are induced on immature cotyledons explanted onto a medium containing moderately high levels of auxin. Germinability of embryos is related to morphologic normality, and both are reduced by excessive exposure to auxin during the induction process. Shoot meristem development was improved by reducing exposure of cotyledonary explants from 30 to 10 to 14 d on 10 mg/liter -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). A 3-d exposure was sufficient to induce embryos, and embryo frequency was not significantly increased by exposures to NAA for more than 1 wk. Embryo frequency was enhanced, however, by transfer after 9 d to fresh medium containing 10 mg/liter NAA. Germination of morphologically normal embryos was achieved without growth regulators, after maturation for 1 mo. on hormone-free medium and desiccation for 1 wk in a sealed, dry container.
4296392|High yields of human hepatocytes (up to
4296076|Studies were carried out to analyze the mechanism by which extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules and soluble growth factors interplay to control capillary endothelial cell growth. Bovine adrenal capillary endothelial cells attached to purified matrix components but spread poorly and exhibited low levels of DNA synthesis in the absence of exogenous growth factors or serum. Addition of cationic, heparin-binding growth factor purified from either human hepatoma cells or normal bovine pituitary (fibroblast growth factor) induced extensive cell spreading and up to eight fold increases in DNA synthetic rates relative to levels observed in cells on similar substrata in the absence of mitogen. However, the extent of this response differed depending upon the type of ECM molecule used for cell attachment (fold increase on type III collagen > gelatin > type IV collagen > fibronectin > type V collagen >>> laminin). Computerized morphometry demonstrated that endothelial cell DNA synthetic rates increased in an exponential fashion in direct relation to linear increases in cell and nuclear size (projected areas). Similarly sized cells always displayed the same level of DNA synthesis independent of the type of ECM molecule used for cell attachment or the presence of saturating amounts of growth factor. In all cases, DNA metabolism appeared to be coupled to physical expansion of the cell and nucleus rather than to a specific cell morphology (e.g. polygonal versus bipolar). These findings suggest that ECM may act locally as a "solid state" regulator of angiogenesis through its ability to selectively support or prohibit cell and nuclear extension in response to stimulation by soluble mitogens.
4296701|Human adult endothelial cells (ECs) were cultured on liquid-liquid interface formed when aqueous culture medium is overlaid onto a fluorocarbon solvent. When ECs were seeded on untreated interfaces, some cells seemed to attach but they did not spread or grow. In contrast, when ECs were seeded on interfaces pretreated with such proteins as collagen type IV (COL), laminin (LN), fibronectin (FN), and fibrinogen (FG) the cells spread and proliferated until they formed confluent monolayers. Proteins such as bovine serum albumin (BSA) or gelatin (GN) were not as effective in providing surfaces for vigorous growth. Cells grown on fluorocarbon interfaces expressed specialized characteristics exhibited by endothelial cells grown under the usual culture conditions; they grew in a cobblestone monolayer, stained positively for Factor VIII-related antigen, and produced angiotensin-converting enzyme. The growth rate of ECs was the same whether they were cultured on treated fluorocarbon interfaces or on the usual tissue culture plastic surfaces. Using this culture system, the interactions of ECs with various adhesive proteins used as substrata was examined. ECs were observed to attach readily to the interfaces coated with GN, COL, LN, FN, and FG, but poorly to those coated with BSA. All the substrates tested, with the exception of BSA, promoted EC growth on fluorocarbon interfaces; ECs tended to grow more rapidly on COL- or FG-coated interfaces than on LN-, FN-, or GN-coated interfaces.
4296357| The replication of simian virus 40 DNA and protein synthesis in BSC-1 cells was analyzed in vitro after treatment with 5,6-dihydro-5-azacytidine (DH-5-AzaCR) or 5-azacytidine (5-AzaCR). Results demonstrated that after a 3-h treatment period with 100 g/ml, DH-5-AzaCR exhibited a 77% inhibition of viral DNA synthesis, whereas 5-AzaCR resulted in a 50% inhibition. Stimulation of DNA synthesis occurred when infected cultures were treated with low doses (0.1 to 0.5 g/ml) of 5-AzaCR for 3 h and after 1 and 2 h of treatment with 100 g/ml of 5-AzaCR; however, stimulation did not occur with DH-5-AzaCR. DNA synthesized in the presence of either drug demonstrated altered conformations when analyzed on agarose gels; however this alteration was negligible after DH-5-AzaCR treatment, but more pronounced in the presence of 5-AzaCR. Restriction enzyme analysis suggests that DH-5-AzaCR may not be a hypomethylating agent as is 5-AzaCR. Inhibition of total protein synthesis (cellular and viral) was essentially complete 6 h after treatment with DH-5-AzaCR, whereas 5-AzaCR completely inhibited protein synthesis after 3 h. These data indicate that 5-AzaCR does not exhibit a direct dose relationship to the inhibition of DNA synthesis whereas DH-5-AzaCR may show some dose relationship, and that DH-5-AzaCR is a more potent inhibitor of DNA synthesis as compared to 5-AzaCR. 
20171461| In previous work we have shown that perifused GH cells exhibit spontaneously accelerating growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (PRL) secretory rates. This behavior contrasts with GH and PRL secretion rates that are decreasing or stable over the same 3-d period in static cell culture. We now report that GH cells maintained in serum-supplemented medium produce an autocrine-paracrine factor(s) which inhibits GH secretion in plate culture; PRL release is frequently reduced as well. The inhibitory effect of conditioned medium on GH secretion was concentration dependent, whereas PRL release was stimulated at low and inhibited at high concentrations over the same range. Extensive dialysis of conditioned medium using membranes with a molecular weight cut-off of 12 000-14 000 did not remove GH inhibition but produced a retentate that stimulated PRL secretion. Heat-inactivation of conditioned medium did not abolish inhibition of GH release but did remove the PRL-stimulatory effect. IGF-I added to fresh culture medium did not reproduce the GH-inhibitory effects of conditioned medium. We conclude that GH cell secretory behavior in perifusion and plate culture systems may be partially explained by the production of an autocrine-paracrine factor: its accumulation in plate culture inhibits GH and PRL secretion whereas its removal, by perifusing medium, allows GH and PRL secretion to accelerate. 
4296795| Procedures for the serum-free culture of a density fractionated population of bovine bronchial epithelial cells have been established. Epithelial cells dispersed by protease digestion were fractionated by density equilibrium centrifugation, followed by plating of the small basal-like population on type I collagen-coated culture dishes. Two or three passages of 1:4 split enriched for a population of actively dividing cells, which could be stored in liquid nitrogen for subsequent use. Clonal growth assays revealed optimum proliferation using a 1:1 mixture of medium RPMI 1640 and LHC-9, a medium employed for human bronchial epithelial cells. Cellular growth rate, which was 0.6 to 1.3 doublings per day depending on the cell preparation, was conveniently decreased by supplementing LHC-9 medium with less than 50% RPMI. In contrast to airway epithelial cell cultures from other species, serum stimulated the growth of bovine bronchial epithelial cells in this system. Transforming growth factor 1, however, inhibited growth and induced differentiation into a squamous phenotype. Also in contrast with other systems, the bovine cells were resistant to growth inhibition by 100 nM tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate or 1 M calcium ionophore A23187. Combination of phorbol ester with ionophore decreased mitotic activity, although induction of squamous morphology was not observed. Therefore, growth inhibition and squamous differentiation were not tightly coupled in this system. Finally, biologically synthesized matrix deposited by these cells stimulated growth rate. This culture system will therefore be useful in assessing the activities of both soluble and matrix-associated factors in the absence of serum. 
4296336|Human peripheral blood monocytes, upon activation, have the capacity to oxidize low density lipoprotein (LDL) and render the LDL toxic to cultured cells. Previous studies by our laboratory indicate that this process is mediated by free radicals in that it can be prevented by addition of free radical scavengers and antioxidants during the incubation of monocytes with LDL. Here we report that optimal modification of LDL by monocytes was influenced by media composition. In the absence of added metal ions, oxidation was distinctly dependent on the concentration of monocytes as well as LDL concentration. Exposure of monocytes to lipopolysaccharide or stimulation of phagocytosis by opsonized zymosan resulted in marked enhancement of LDL oxidation compared to other activating agents. After exposure to activated monocytes, lipid oxidation products in the supernatant were found both in a high molecular weight fraction containing LDL (>30 000 Daltons) and in a lipoprotein-free, low molecular weight fraction (<30 000 Daltons), yet only the high molecular weight, LDL-containing fraction was toxic to target cells. In addition, human myelomonocytic cell lines U937 and HL60 were shown to mediate oxidation of LDL. As with monocytes, exposing these cells to opsonized zymosan caused the level of LDL oxidation to be significantly enhanced. These findings offer further insight into the mechanisms of monocyte-mediated oxidation of lipoproteins and will facilitate studies investigating the role of monocyte-modified LDL in tissue injury.
4296718|Fetal rat distal lung epithelial cells, in contrast to adult type II pneumocytes, will divide readily in culture in the presence of 10% (vol:vol) fetal bovine serum. The presence of serum makes purification of uncontaminated cell-derived growth factors difficult and modifies cellular responses to oxidant injury. We report the development of a defined serum-free medium that will support growth of fetal distal lung epithelial cells in primary culture. Initial studies used a low-serum (2%; vol:vol) to determine the effect of basal media, substrata, and various additives. Subsequent studies demonstrated growth on a poly-D-lysine substratum under serum-free culture conditions in Dulbecco's modified minimal essential medium with insulin (
4296456| Inflorescence stalks from greenhouse-grown Gladiolus plants of the cultivars 'Blue Isle' and 'Hunting Song' cultured on a Murashige and Skoog basal salts medium supplemented with 53.6 M l-napthaleneacetic acid formed a compact, not friable type of callus that regenerated plantlets. Cormel slices and intact plantlets of three cultivars ('Peter Pears/'Rosa Supreme,' 'Jenny Lee') propagated through tissue culture formed a friable type of callus when cultured on Murashige and Skoog basal salts medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. This friable callus readily formed a cell suspension when the callus was placed in a liquid medium. Plants were regenerated from two-month-old suspension cell cultures of the commercial cultivar 'Peter Pears' after the suspension cells had been cultured on solid medium. 
4296223|We studied the interaction of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) with umbilical vein endothelial cells infected with herpes simpflex virus (HSV) type 1. PMNs labeled with
4296315|Colonies of HeLa cells cultured in media supplemented with human or bovine serum or both can be morphologically described as three types: diffuse, intermediate, and compact, with their modal distribution depending on the serum or sera added to the growth medium. We have observed that for a particular medium or serum system, the percentage of compact colonies remains fairly constant under normal culture conditions, 0.2%, whereas the diffuse and intermediate colonies vary over a much wider range. The presence of certain substances as trypsin, heparin and Darvan in the medium favor the increase of compact colonies at the expense of other types. Furthermore, we have discovered that colonial morphology is influenced by cocultivation of the HeLa cells with human fibroblastlike cells, the compact colonies increasing as the density of the fibroblast element introduced into the mixed cultures is increased. Subsequent investigation revealed that conditioned medium from confluent fibroblast and HeLa cell cultures contained a factor(s), that significantly increased the percentage of compact colonies. The factor is nondialyzable, heat-stable and can be neutralized by serum. Recorded in this presentation are preliminary observations on the kinetics of colony formation and the interaction among the three HeLa cell colony types, the diffuse, the intermediate, and the compact. The factor's effect on HeLa cell colonial morphology is time dependent and rapidly reversed if the factor(s) is removed and fresh medium added.
20171547|Primary cultures of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) were obtained by a two-step enzymatic digestion of guinea pig prostatic stroma. Ultrastructural morphology and growth characteristics of these cells conformed to those reported for SMCs isolated from vascular and visceral tissue sources. Electron microscopic examination indicated that the cells assumed modified myofibroblastoid features in culture. Microfilaments with associated dense bodies were markedly depleted in cultured smooth muscle cells, in comparison with those of the parent tissue. Cultured cells also possessed increased content of rough endoplasmic reticulum indicating the increased secretory or protein-synthetic capacity of the cells. Immunoperoxidase staining for cytoskeletal markers using monoclonal antibodies to desmin and vimentin supported the ultrastructural observations, suggesting a decline in desmin-staining intermediate filaments during "modulation" to the myofibroblastoid form. Despite this depletion of smooth muscle-specific differentiation markers and reversion to more general mesenchymal properties, the cells retained the ability to contract on challenge with norepinephrine, and grew in the characteristic "hill and valley" pattern on attaining confluence. Inasmuch as the estrogen and androgen receptor expression of the parent stromal tissue is also retained, these primary cell cultures should provide a useful model to study regulation of prostatic development.
4296796|A new low shear stress microcarrier culture system has been developed at NASA's Johnson Space Center that permits three-dimensional tissue culture. Two established human colon adenocarcinoma cell lines, HT-29, an undifferentiated, and HT-29KM, a stable, moderately differentiated subline of HT-29, were grown in new tissue culture bioreactors called Rotating-Wall Vessels (RWVs). RWVs are used in conjunction with multicellular cocultivation to develop a unique in vitro tissue modeling system. Cells were cultivated on Cytodex-3 microcarrier beads, with and without mixed normal human colonic fibroblasts, which served as the mesenchymal layer. Culture of the tumor lines in the absence of fibroblasts produced spheroidlike growth and minimal differentiation. In contrast, when tumor lines were co-cultivated with normal colonic fibroblasts, initial growth was confined to the fibroblast population until the microcarriers were covered. The tumor cells then commenced proliferation at an accelerated rate, organizing themselves into three-dimensional tissue masses that achieved 1.0- to 1.5-cm diameters. The masses displayed glandular structures, apical and internal glandular microvilli, tight intercellular junctions, desmosomes, cellular polarity, sinusoid development, internalized mucin, and structural organization akin to normal colon crypt development. Differentiated samples were subjected to transmission and scanning electron microscopy and histologie analysis, revealing embryoniclike mesenchymal cells lining the areas around the growth matrices. Necrosis was minimal throughout the tissue masses. These data suggest that the RWV affords a new model for investigation and isolation of growth, regulatory, and structural processes within neoplastic and normal tissue.
4296453|This paper describes the microscopic evidence supporting a cesium-induced delay in the fusion of chick embryo myoblast membranes during in vitro myogenic differentiation. We have recently demonstrated that the sharp decrease in the conductivity and permittivity of the membranes of these myogenic cells at the time of fusion is delayed 30 h by the addition of cesium to the culture medium (Santini et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta 945:56-64; 1988). We report here that this delay in fusion is substantiated by direct microscopic observation and that cesium also induces ultrastructural changes in the myoblast cells themselves. Possible mechanisms by which cesium may cause both the delay in fusion as well as the ultrastructural changes observed are discussed.
4296563|We have developed new co-cultures of continuous cell lines 3T3 (clone A31) and C3H/10T1/2 (clone 8) with hepatocytes as an alternative to co-cultures with noncontinuous epithelial cells. In this biological system we studied in detail the expression of the hepatic biotransformation system. After 7 d in culture, total cytochrome P-450 content and the monooxygenase activities aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 7-ethoxycoumarin o-deethylase still maintained about 30% of their initial value, whereas in pure cultured hepatocytes these activities were undetectable. A significant response to induction by methylcholanthrene and phenobarbital of monooxygenase activities was observed in co-cultures for 7 d. NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity remained unchanged for at least 7 d in co-cultured hepatocytes, whereas in pure cultures this activity was reduced to about 75% of the initial value after only 24 h. Finally, the activity of the conjugating enzymes UDP-Gt and GSH-t was maintained at nearly the initial levels during the complete period of study. The easy handling of continuous cell lines and the maintenance of the biotransformation system of hepatocytes in co-culture make this approach simpler and easier to standardize.
4295919|Studies were performed to compare three methods to detect mycoplasmal infection of cell cultures. The methods included microbiological assay by inoculation into broth and onto agar with anaerobic incubation, fluorescent DNA staining by Hoechst 33258, and mycoplasmal mediated cytotoxicity by 6 methylpurine deoxyriboside (6MPDR). Fluorescent DNA staining and 6MPDR assays were performed in an indicator cell culture system. A total of 2589 cell cultures were assayed. Mycoplasmas were detected in 174, an incidence of 6.7%. Species isolated were: Acholeplasma laidlawii, Mycoplasma orale, M. arginini, M. hyorhinis, M. fermentans, M. pirum, and M. pneumoniae. In separate studies, 6MPDR also detected infection with Spiroplasma mirum when this organism was deliberately inoculated into cell cultures. The efficiencies of microbiological testing, fluorescent DNA assays, and 6MPDR were 43.1, 98.8, and 97.1%, respectively.
4296867|A human yolk sac tumor cell line, TG1, which was established from a testicular yolk sac tumor, was found to replicate continuously in a chemically defined medium supplemented with
4296354|Membrane-coating granules (MCG) are poorly understood lamellate organelles unique to keratinized epithelia. This study provides data on a skin model for future in vitro investigations of MCG. Porcine ear epidermal organ cultures were used under standard cell culture conditions. This system was selected because it is easily established and, following a degenerative period in which MCG are lost, regenerates to form a highly differentiated epidermis. The epidermis appeared healthy during the first 2 d in vitro and contained MCG but lost keratohyalin granules (KHG). Overt degenerative changes were evident in the upper epidermis on Day 3, and MCG were now bloated. By Day 4 only one to three layers of viable undifferentiated cells remained. In the overlying necrotic epidermis MCG were rare, presumably due to the bursting of bloated MCG. Epidermal regeneration began around Day 5 and by Day 7 there were 8 to 13 layers, including a rudimentary parakeratotic stratum corneum (up to 4 layers). The stratum granulosum (two to three layers) now contained immature KHG and poorly lamellate MCG, but only amorphous material extracellularly. By Day 11 there were three to four layers of granular cells as in vivo, and an orthokeratotic stratum corneum (two to four layers). Improved cornification coincided with an increased number of mature KHG and cross-banded MCG, and lamellate MCG contents extracellularly. This model of epidermal regeneration will facilitate studies into the role played by MCG in keratinization because the epithelium initially lacked MCG but later expressed all the major morphologic features of epidermis. Furthermore the mechanisms by which MCG translocation and extrusion are effected may be probed by the inclusion of such agents as antimicrotubular drugs and calcium ionophores.
4296197|The cell line UFL-AG-286 was established from the embryos of Anticarsia gemmatalis (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). The cell line was characterized by isozyme analysis and from molecular weight determination of the restriction endonuclease bands of the mitochondrial DNA. Cells seeded in 24-cluster wells had a doubling time of 5.9 d when seeded at 2  10
4296022|The epithelial morphology of the hamster trachea in serum-free organ culture was compared with that of age-matched in vivo control tissues by collecting and statistically analyzing several quantifiable parameters. By this technique it was possible to detect both subtle and dramatic epithelial alterations. Midtracheal tissues from 6-wk-old male Syrian golden hamsters were used as the explants. Explants were placed on Gelfoam sponges and cultured for 1, 2, and 3 wk in CMRL 1066 alone and in CMRL 1066 to which seven factors were added: insulin and transferrin (
4295834|Recent electrophysiological and pharmacological studies have confirmed previous clinical evidence that the gene defect in cystic fibrosis is strongly expressed in the sweat gland. This has provided a major impetus to efforts to culture the cells of this tissue in order to provide a source of experimental material for molecular studies. Toward this end, eccrine sweat glands were isolated from collagenase treated skin specimens and the secretory coil and the reabsorptive duct separated. Segments of each portion of the gland were transferred to a plastic or collagen substrate and covered with serum-containing or serum-free defined growth media. Epithelial cell outgrowth took place in both media but fibroblast overgrowth occurred in the presence of serum at concentrations as low as 1%. In serum-free medium both secretory and reabsorptive cells formed tightly joined epithelial sheets, first as monolayers and later as multilayers consisting of at least six cell layers. Growth continued for approximately fifteen generations each of about two and a hahf days. Remarkably large domes or hemicysts with diameters as great as two cm were formed, apparently attesting to the retention of the capacity of the cells to actively transport ions and water. Ultrastructurally, cells which grew out from the secretory coil ressembled the fluid secreting clear cells; neither dark cells nor myoepithelial cells were propagated.
4296704|Bicarbonate in the culture medium is essential for DNA synthesis of primary cultured rat hepatocytes stimulated by epidermal growth factor (EGF). When primary cultured hepatocytes in supplemented Leibovitz L15 medium were placed in a 100% air incubator, no increase in DNA synthesis was observed even after stimulation by EGF. However, when these cells were cultured with NaHCO
4296467|The ganglioside composition of calf aortic smooth muscle cells, cultured in the presence and absence of ascorbate, was analyzed. Previous work has shown that ascorbate supplementation leads to the formation of an extracellular matrix consisting primarily of collagen and that this matrix influences the biosynthetic capabilities of the cell. Cell cultures were supplemented with ascorbate for 3 wk and labeled with
4296200|Epithelial cells were isolated from fetal bovine trachea by exposing and stripping the mucosal epithelium from the adjacent connective tissue. The tissue was minced and enzymically dissociated in Ca-Mg-free medium containing dispase and dithiothreitol. The stripping procedure and selective trypsinization produced epithelial cell cultures free of fibroblasts. Seeded on plastic, the plating efficiency was 21.5% with a doubling time of 24 h. Dome formation, evidence of occluding junctions and active ion transport characteristic of epithelial cells, was common. Growth of the cells on glass, collagen, and Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm (EHS) substrate demonstrated a striking difference in morphology. Cells grown on EHS presented a more distinctly three-dimensional growth pattern and many more microvilli when compared to cells grown on glass or collagen. The cells retained their epithelioid characteristics through more than 30 passages as shown by the presence of distinct apical and basolateral membranes, tight junctions, and positive keratin staining.
4296465|We previously documented both the spontaneous acceleration of growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (PRL) production by
4295845|Studies on the tumorigenicity of Vero kidney cells of Cercopithecus aethiops monkey origin were extended to various passage levels of BSC-1 aneuploid cells and to low passage CV-1 diploid cells (derived also from C. aethiops monkey kidney). It was found that BSC-1 cells - like Vero cells - showed increased tumorigenicity with increasing passage level in antithymocyte globulin (ATG) treated newborn rats and in nude mice. Cells passaged over 250 times in cultures formed invasive adenocarcinomas in newborn rats. Their malignant tumor growth was further demonstrated around the 500 passage level when tumor metastases were detected in the lungs of four of the 14 inoculated rats. Vero cells induced such lung metastases in rats already at passage 227. CV-1 diploid cells at low passage level produced small nodules of epithelioid cells in newborn rats at 6th day after inoculation that had disappeared by the 21st day, and caused no local invasion nor lung metastasis. In vitro tumorigenicity tests on BSC-1 and CV-1 cells, using chick embryo skin, human muscle and colony formation in agarose, confirmed the animal test results. The results of this study indicate that BSC-1 and Vero cell lines at low and high passage levels may prove to be useful tools to study the molecular basis of malignancy.
4296216|We have studied the responses of three human retinoblastoma cell lines (GM1232, Y79, and WERI-Rb1) to substratum-bound laminin (LN), fibronectin (FN), or collagen (CN) in serum-containing medium. About 95% of the cells attached to poly-D-lysine (PN)-pretreated plastic surfaces either unbound or protein-bound within 1 h after plating. With PN-bound LN, GM1232 cells showed an outgrowth of processes and cell spread within 1 d, but very little was seen on PN-bound FN, CN, or unbound PN even by Day 4. Both the percentage of cells with processes and the number of processes/cell were dependent on the amount of LN bound to the surfaces at Day 4. On LN surfaces without PN pretreatment, by Day 2 most cells had formed floating aggregates and were not attached to the surfaces. By Day 4 only a part of the peripheral cells of attached aggregates displayed process outgrowth and cell spreading. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) maintained these effects of PN-bound LN, and promoted process branching, cell spreading, and elongation with concomitant inhibition of cell growth. The percentage of cells with processes was 83%. Y79 and WERI-Rbl cells, passed for several years, showed little and weak response to PN-bound LN either in the absence or presence of dbcAMP. These results indicate that the morphologic differentiation of GM1232 cells is elicited specifically by PN-bound LN, and that dbcAMP maintains and promotes this differentiated status.
20171565|Atrial and ventricular cardiac muscle cells isolated from 14- to 18-wk old fetal human hearts were grown in culture and characterized. Once established in culture the flattened cells contracted spontaneously and possessed differentiated ultrastructural characteristics including organized sarcomeres, intercalated discs, and transverse tubules with couplings. Atrial granules were present in the cultured atrial cells. Some cultured ventricular myocytes also contained electron-dense granules associated with Golgi cisternae, which were similar in size and appearance to atrial granules. The cultured ventricular myocytes divided and expressed the genes for thymidine kinase, histone H4, myosin heavy chain, muscle-specific creatine kinase, atrial natriuretic factor, and insulin-like growth factor II. These results establish that differentiated fetal human heart muscle cells can be cultured in sufficient quantities for biochemical, molecular, and morphological analyses.
4296497|The human leukemic cells HL-60, U937, KG-1 and THP-1 incubated with transforming growth
4296904|The factors involved in
20171424| Cross-linked poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) microspheres were subjected to alkaline hydrolysis to obtain hydrophilic microspheres having carboxyl residues distributed throughout the matrix. These microspheres were found to support the growth of human skin fibroblasts and human heart and lung cells. Further, fibroblasts grown on them were found to be comparable with those grown on the commercial tissue culture plate with respect to [C]amino acid uptake and incorporation into proteins. The hydrolyzed PMMA microspheres may find application as a microcarrier for cell culture. 
4296589|We compared the growth and morphology of normal, dysplastic and malignant human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) in medium containing 5% human serum, a serum-free medium (32) and serum-free medium with a low Ca
4296490|A novel relaxin sensitive cell line of apparent smooth muscle origin has been established from a newborn rhesus monkey uterus (NRMU). NRMU cells respond to relaxin, in the presence of 1  M forskolin, by producing intracellular adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP). The increase in cAMP levels is dose, time and cell density dependent, reaching peak levels at 10 min when cells are seeded at 1  10<sup>5</sup> cells/well. Specificity was demonstrated by neutralization of the relaxin activity with anti-relaxin monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, degradation of cAMP in the presence of phosphodiesterase, and confirmation of the absence of cGMP. Three synthetic analogs of human relaxin generated a dose-related cAMP response as did synthetic native human relaxin. Natural relaxin purified from human corpora lutea tissue also generated a response similar to synthetic human relaxin. Porcine and rat relaxing also increased levels of cAMP. Insulin, but not IGF I or IGF II, was capable of increasing cAMP levels in NRMU cells, however, 200 ng/mL were required to achieve cAMP levels comparable to 6.25 ng/ml relaxin. Combinations of relaxin with insulin, IGF I or IGF II did not increase cAMP levels above levels obtained with relaxin alone. The effect on NRMU cells of other hormones, growth factors and drugs potentially present in cell culture systems or serum samples was evaluated. In combination with relaxin, oxytocin significantly decreased the cAMP production below the levels induced by relaxin alone, whereas progesterone and prostaglandin E<sub>2</sub> resulted in additive increases in cAMP. These data suggest that the NRMU cell line is an appropriate target tissue for studying relaxin-mediated biological responses in vitro as well as functioning as the primary component of a relaxin in vitro bioassay.
20171360|A technique for the short-term culture of pure populations of rabbit corneal endothelial and epithelial cells has been developed. Rabbit corneas were placed on concave agarose surfaces, treated briefly with a solution of trypsin and ethylenediamine tetracetic acid, and transferred, either epithelial cell surface or endothelial cell surface down, to microscope slide culture chambers. Within 6 to 12 h the epithelial cells or endothelial cells attached to the slide chamber surface and the cornea was removed, leaving behind a pure population of cells which spread out and grew to fill the surface of the slide chamber. This technique provides a simple and economic means for the reproducible initiation of primary cultures of rabbit corneal epithelial and endothelial cells for us in a variety of experiments.
4295809| We have used cDNA clones for the B1 and B2 subunits of laminin to find restriction fragment length DNA polymorphisms for the genes encoding these polypeptides in the mouse. Three alleles were found for LamB2 and two for LamB1 among the inbred mouse strains. The segregation of these polymorphisms among recombinant inbred strains showed that these genes are tightly linked in the central region of mouse Chromosome 1 between Sas-1 and Ly-m22, 7.4  3.2 cM distal to the Pep-3 locus. There is no evidence in the mouse for pseudogenes for these proteins. 
4296425|GH cells are a widely used cell strain for the investigation of mechanisms regulating hormone release and synthesis. This report identifies two inducible phenotypes of the <tex-math>$GH_4$</tex-math> clone (epithelioid and motile) which may extend studies of this well-characterized cell line to different stages of pituitary cell development. <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math> cells treated in suspension with epidermal growth factor plus tetradecanoylphorbol acetate aggregate to form large epithelioid colonies with extensive cell-to-cell and cell-to-substratum adhesion. These cells cease replicating within 48 h, increase 50% in cell volume, and synthesize 40-fold more prolactin. A <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math> variant with enhanced substratum adhesion and little or no cell-to-cell adhesion (<tex-math>$GH_{4}S_1$</tex-math>), responds differently to this treatment. These cells cease replicating immediately, show increased cell separation, develop leading lamellae, and display locomotory activity. Each phenotype coexists in mixed cultures of <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$GH_{4}S_1$</tex-math> cells. This indicates that the different inducible response of the variant does not result from autocrine secretion. A molecular basis for cell-to-cell adhesion in <tex-math>$GH_4 $</tex-math>cells was investigated. <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math>, but not the variant cells, express a 180 kDa immunoreactive protein indistinguishable from an isoform of the neural cell adhesion molecule. Therefore the absence of cell-to-cell adhesion and inability to develop extensive cell-to-cell adhesion characteristic of the epithelioid phenotype may result from altered expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule. These findings are important because they have defined an in vitro approach to investigate genetic and cellular changes associated with the development and progression of pituitary cell phenotype.
4296147| The isolation and culture of cell lines from mouse brain capillary endothelium (MBE) is described. Cells migrating from collagenase-treated capillary fragments proliferated rapidly in the 1st wk of culture forming large epithelioid cobblestonelike colonies. The cells showed only marginal proliferation after 2 to 3 wk in culture, until peripheral cells migrated away from the colony which exhibited a marked degree of proliferation. These cells were trypsinized and subcultured to confluence. The cells can be maintained for well over 40 passages and seem to retain their endothelial morphology. The endothelial origin of these cells was demonstrated by positive immunoperoxidase reactivity with Factor VIII-related antigen, specific binding of Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin and -glutamyl transpeptidase activity. Electron microscopic examination of the MBE cells showed junctional complexes including intermediate junctions, but no tight junctions. The overall ultrastructure indicates that a degree of dedifferentiation has occurred, the cells ultrastructurally resembling immature endothelium. An earlier investigation of cultured mouse brain endothelial cells reported a cell line that had lost many functional and structural characteristics. Our study demonstrates, as the previous one, that a certain degree of dedifferentiation needs to occur if MBE cells are to be maintained for long-term culture. However, the degree of dedifferentiation seems to be variable, depending in part on the culture conditions employed. 
4295716| Rat pancreatic acinar cells were isolated and cultured in Ham's F12 medium with 15% bovine calf serum. Caerulein, insulin, somatostatin, and dexamethasone (DEX) had no effect on intracellular or secreted amylase in these cultured cells. A serum-free medium, using Waymouth's MB 752/1 supplemented with albumin, epidermal growth factor (EGF), DEX, and HEPES, was then developed to avoid serum factors that might mask hormonal effects. In this SF medium, pancreatic acinar cells maintained the morphological and ultrastructural characteristics of freshly isolated cells and secreted amylase in response to the secretagogue, carbamyl choline. Insulin, at a concentration of 1 g/ml, significantly increased intracellular and secreted amylase activity after 3 d. This model cell system can be used to study the regulation of the synthesis of amylase and other pancreatic enzymes in vitro. 
20171439|We investigated the effects of conditioned media derived from mouse mammary fat pads on the proliferation of CL-S1 cells, an epithelial cell line originally isolated from a preneoplastic mammary outgrowth line. Cell proliferation in vitro in serum-free defined medium was compared to that in this medium conditioned using intact mammary fat pad pieces or isolated fat pad adipocytes. Culture medium was conditioned by incubating the conditioning material in defined culture medium for 24 h at 37 C. Conditioned medium induced CL-S1 proliferation as much as 10- to 20-fold above the minimal levels of growth in control cultures after 13 d of culture. The growth-stimulatory factor(s) had an apparent molecular weight of greater than 10 kDa. This growth-stimulatory activity was both heat and trypsin stable. Because the role of adipose tissue is to store and release lipids, we next tested whether lipids are released during medium conditioning. The lipid composition of the fat pad conditioned medium was characterized using both thin layer and gas liquid chromatography. These lipid analyses indicated that the fat pad pieces released significant amounts of fatty acids and phospholipids into the medium during the conditioning period. The free fatty acid composition included both saturated and unsaturated molecules, and about 80% of the total fatty acids consisted of palmitate, stearate, oleate, and linoleate. These same fatty acids were a structural component of the majority of phospholipid found in the medium. The addition of palmitate or stearate to defined medium had no effect or was inhibitory for CL-S1 proliferation, depending on the concentration used. Defined medium supplemented with oleate, arachidonate, or linoleate induced CL-S1 proliferation, and the inhibitory effects of palmitate and stearate were overcome by addition of oleate and linoleate. These data indicate that both unsaturated and saturated fatty acids are released from intact adipose cells of the mouse mammary fat pad and that fatty acids can influence the growth of preneoplastic mouse mammary epithelium. Thus, unsaturated fatty acids, perhaps in conjunction with other substances released simultaneously, are candidate molecules for the substances that mediate the effect of adipose tissue on growth of epithelium.
4296075| Nodal cuttings from micropropagated potato plantlets give rise to microtubers when placed on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 6% sucrose and 2.5 mg/liter kinetin and incubated in the dark at 19 C. Microtubers produced from the cultivar Superior were shown to contain the same characteristic group of proteins as field-grown tubers. As with field-grown tubers, the 40 000-dalton major tuber glycoprotein, patatin, accumulated to high levels in microtubers, reaching 3.7  0.2 mg/g fresh weight after 90 d. Also in agreement with field-grown plants, stems and leaves of micropropagated plantlets did not contain detectable levels of patatin, but small amounts of an electrophoretically distinct form accumulated transiently in roots. Patatin mRNA is readily detectable in developing microtubers 15 d after transfer of the cuttings to inductive medium. Patatin mRNA was also present in roots, but as with field-grown plants, was 50- to 100-fold less abundant and could be distinguished from that in tubers by primer extension. Microtuber development and patatin accumulation were inhibited by gibberellic acid. 
4295822|The adipogenic cell line 1246, which grows and differentiates in defined medium, stringently requires insulin for both processes. From this cell line, insulin-independent variants were isolated and characterized. Unlike 1246 cells, the variant cell lines proliferate without insulin, have lost their differentiation ability, produce factor(s) able to replace insulin to stimulate 1246 cell growth but not differentiation and are tumorigenic. Because of these properties, this system is appropriate to examine the correlation (if any) between the loss of response to an extra-cellular factor and of ability to differentiate, and between the production of endogenous growth factor and the acquisition of tumorigenic properties.
4296181|Confluent monolayers of normal human hepatocytes obtained by collagenase perfusion of liver fragments were incubated in a serum-free medium. Intracellular apolipoproteins apo AI, apo C, apo B, and apo E were detected between Day 1 and Day 6 of the culture by immunoenzymatic staining using polyclonal antibodies directed against these apoproteins and monoclonal antibodies directed against both forms of apo B (B100 and B48). Translation of mRNA isolated from these hepatocytes in an acellular system revealed that apo AI and apo E were synthesized as the precusor forms of mature plasma apo AI and apo E. Three lipoprotein fractions corresponding to the density of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL), and high density lipoprotein (HDL) were isolated from the medium at Day 5 of culture and examined by electron microscopy after negative staining. VLDL and LDL particles are similar in size and shape to plasma lipoproteins; spherical HDL are larger than normal plasma particles isolated at the same density. Their protein represented 44, 19.5, and 36.5% respectively, of the total lipoprotein protein. The secretion rate of VLDL protein corresponded to that measured in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes. After incorporation of
4296148|Mature seeds of plains Old World bluestem [Bothriochloa ischaemum (L.) Keng.] were used to initiate suspension cultures. The medium contained the major and minor minerals of Murashige and Skoog, Gamborg's B-5 vitamins, 30 g/liter sucrose, and 3 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid with or without 12 mM proline at pH 5.5. Cultures contained both embryogenic and nonembryogenic (NE) cells. Suspensions that had been filtered through a 40-mesh sieve were plated out on medium with 6 g/liter agar. Two-to-three weeks later, clumps that formed in suspension cultures that had been filtered previously were removed by filtration through a 40-mesh sieve and plated out on agar medium. Colonies were rated on the basis of surface area. Of the total area of colonies formed from plated suspensions 70.9% were embryogenic, 19.8% were NE, and 9.3% were mixed colonies. Of the total area from plated clumps, 57.1% were E, 12.9% were NE, and 30% were mixed colonies. Embryoid maturation and germination was accomplished by transferring E or mixed colonies to MS medium with 1 mg/liter zeatin (mixted isomers). Rooting was completed on half-strength basal MS medium. Over 90% of plantlets survived transfer to the greenhouse and 95% of them survived transfer to the field.
4296302|Development of somatic embryos of soybean Glycine max (L.) Merr. has been studied using cultivars J103 and McCall and five auxin-sucrose treatments: naphthalene acetic acid at 10 mg/liter with 1.5% sucrose (N10); 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 0.25, 0.5 or 1.0 mg/liter with 1.5% sucrose (D.25, D.5, D1); and 2,4-D at 25 mg/liter with 3% sucrose (D25). Cotyledons were excised aseptically from immature embryos 3 to 5 mm in length, and placed on the media with either the adaxial or abaxial side down (adaxial or abaxial orientiation, respectively). After 30 d, numbers of normal or total somatic embryos, or both, were counted. For J103 explants on D25 or N10 media, the greatest number of embryos was produced from the central region of abaxially oriented explants on D25, but only 5% of these embryos were normal. The greatest number of normal embryos was produced from the marginal region of adaxially oriented explants on D25. For McCall explants on D.25, D.5, Dl, or N10 media, the greatest numbers of normal embryos were produced from the marginal regions of abaxially oriented explants on D1 or N10. Embryo induction was examined histologically for the N10, D25, and D.5 treatments, using serial sections of paraffin-embedded cotyledons stained with hematoxylin and safranin. On N10 medium, embryos were produced unicellularly, or more frequently, multicellularly, from homogeneous embryogenie tissue arising from epidermal and subepidermal cells at the distal periphery of the cotyledon. On D25 medium, embryos were produced multicellularly from a heterogeneous embryogenic tissue formed in the central region of the cotyledon, and consisting of embryogenic cells interspersed with large, vacuolate cells. The D.5 treatment showed an intermediate response. Embryo initiation in this soybean system is predominantly multicellular.
20171358|On September 14 through 16, 1988, a meeting on the use of human fetal tissue in transplantation was held at the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda Maryland, USA. The meeting sponsored by NIH for the Human Fetal Tissue Transplantation Research Panel, a consultant group to the Advisory Committee to the Director. The consultant group was convened to deal with the scientific, judicial and moral questions associated with research involving transplantation of human fetal tissue obtained after induced abortions. The first day of the meeting was devoted to presentations addressing scientific issues. Included among the speakers was Dr. Lars Olson, Professor of Neurobiology, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, who described the use of transplanted human fetal tissue in the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease and Dr. Eugene Redmond, Professor of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, who showed results of work with transplantation of tissue to correct induced Parkinson-like disease in monkeys. Other speakers addressed the present, past or potential use of fetal tissue in the treatment of diabetes, immune disorders, and other diseases, as well as the use of fetal cells in the production of biologicals. At the conclusion of the meeting the panel did not recommend that research be halted on fetal tissue within the context discussed, although the recommendation of the committee is not binding, and an additional assembly of the panel will probably occur before the final recommendation to an NIH advisory committee is made in November. Other meetings on this subject include a meeting on the use of fetal tissue sponsored by the American Association of Tissue Banks, March 6-7, 1989, in Washington D. C. (Crystal City) and a meeting June 10, 1989, the day before the annual meeting of the Tissue Culture Association, USA, in Orlando, Florida, on fetal cells and ownership of cultured cells and products derived from clinical specimens. Following are statements to the Human Fetal Tissue Transplantation Research Panel presented September 14, 1988, by Dr. David Barnes, Associate Professor of Biochemistry and Biophysics in the Environmental Health Sciences Center at Oregon State University, USA, who was asked to address for the panel recent advances in cell culture related to fetal tissue, and Dr. Robert E. Stevenson, Director of the American Type Culture Collection, President of the Tissue Culture Association, USA, and Chairman of the Committee on Cells and Tumors of the American Association of Tissue Banks.
4295983|Sarcoma 180 monolayers spontaneously shed single cells and small multicellular aggregates into the surrounding medium to produce a dual population of floating and substratum-attached cells. Shedding was a motility-associated event that occurred when cells attempted to migrate over one another. It resulted from a combination of cell shape change and active motility, which increased sensitivity to fluid shear dislodgement by reducing a cell's surface area of adhesive contact and increasing strain tension at its adhesive contact points. Shedding occurred at all phases of the cell cycle. Extracellular matrix but not conditioned medium enhanced the floating subpopulation by slowing the kinetics of reattachment to plastic and cellular substrata. Although sarcoma 180 cells are anchorage independent in the sense that they grow readily in single cell suspension, they nevertheless exhibited anchorage modulation of their cell cycle. Short periods in suspension produced a mild G
4296081|Several dermal fibroblast lines have been established from explants taken from adult rats. The cells have been cultured for 2 yr and possess stable and well-defined growth characteristics through subculture 18. The cells are readily stored in liquid nitrogen with good viability after thawing. Collagenase activity secreted into the culture medium of the cells at different periods of growth has been examined. There is an 88% drop in total enzyme activity present in the medium between 4 and 14 d of culture, when the cells were plated to reach confluence at Day 8 to 10. A more pronounced fall is noted at earlier times when the cells are plated at a higher density. The correlation between DNA content of the cell monolayer and enzyme activity was -0.895, indicating a possible relationship between the growth of cells and collagenase release.
4296280|Primary cultures of murine renal epithelial cells were established from a preparation of proximal tubule fragments. Confluent cultures exhibited multiple dome formation, indicating the presence of tight junctions and an intact transcellular transport process. Ultrastructural analysis revealed a monolayer of polarized cells, with a sparse but clearly defined microvillar surface facing the growth medium and a basolateral surface attached to the substratum. Cultures grown on collagen gels did not show domes. The epithelial monolayer exhibited several differentiated functions of the proximal tubule: a) parathyroid hormone (PTH(-stimulated cAMP synthesis; b) production of 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D
4296403|Select medium and substratum conditions were investigated for their effects on semiconservative DNA synthesis in essentially pure primary cultures of bile ductular epithelial cells that were initially isolated from cholestatic rat livers at 6 to 10 wk after bile duct ligation. DNA synthesis in these cultured cells was serum-dependent, being at its highest level when the concentration of fetal bovine serum present in the medium was maintained at 10%. This serum-dependent DNA synthesis was completely inhibited when 10 mM hydroxyurea was also included in the medium, and bile ductular cells cultured in the continued presence of 1.0% fetal bovine serum showed only marginal DNA synthesis during 8 to 10 d of primary culture when compared with no-serum controls. Maximum rates of serum-dependent DNA synthesis were obtained when the bile ductular cells were cultured for 7 to 14 d on tissue culture plastic coated with either fibronectin from bovine plasma or type I rat-tail collagen. Cells cultured on plastic coated with basement membrane Matrigel exhibited the lowest levels of DNA synthesis, whereas those on plastic alone had intermediate amounts. Furthermore, the addition of epidermal growth factor (
20171492| Normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) from different individual reduction mammoplasty specimens were all growth inhibited, and showed a flattened, elongated morphology in response to human recombinant transforming growth factor 1 (TGF). The degree of growth inhibition varied among specimens, but none of the normal HMEC maintained growth in the continued presence of TGF. The degree of growth inhibition also varied with cell age in vitro, cell closer to senescence being more sensitive. TGF sensitivity was additionally assayed in two established cell lines derived from one of the reduction mammoplasty specimens after exposure to benzo(a)pyrene. Although varying degrees of growth inhibition and morphologic changes were observed in the cell lines, both lines contained populations that maintained active growth in the presence of TGF. Subclones of these lines demonstrated a great plasticity in their growth response to TGF, with individual clones ranging from strongly growth inhibited to nearly unaffected. These results suggest that multiple factors influence the extent of TGF-induced growth effects on both normal and transformed mammary epithelial cells, and that some of these factors may act through epigenetic mechanisms. 
4296094|Adenosine triphosphate is the primary energy unit for cells, and levels of this compound offer a potential marker for cell viability and growth. The availability of a bioluminescence assay allows for a rapid, sensitive, and reproducible measurement of ATP. A method is described for the quantification of intracellular ATP levels in human cancer cells. ATP levels were linearly related to the number of viable cells and increased with time in human cancer cell line cultures correlating with growth kinetics. The effect of 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, methotrexate, cytosine arabinoside, nitrogen mustard, melphalan, vinblastine, and cisplatin on the growth of human cancer cell lines was studied utilizing ATP levels. ATP levels and colony formation in agar of drug-exposed cells were compared. Overall there was a significant correlation between drug effects on colony formation and ATP levels. The ATP assay is rapid, simple, reproducible, and a relatively inexpensive method of quantifying drug effects on malignant cells. This makes it a potentially useful method for screening new anticancer drugs in human cancer cell lines.
20171589| An attempt was made to culture neural crest cells of the turtle embryo in vitro. Trunk neural tubes from the St. 9/10 embryos were explanted in culture dishes. The developmental potency of the turtle neural crest cells in vitro was shown to be essentially similar to that of avian neural crest cells, although they seem to be more sensitive to melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) stimulation. We describe conditions under which explanted neural tube gives rise to neural crest cells that differentiate into neuronal cells and melanocytes. The potency of melanocyte differentiation was found to vary according to the concentration of fetal bovine serum (FBS, from 5 to 20%). Melanization of neural crest cells cultured in the medium containing FBS and -MSH was more extensive than those cultured with FBS alone, combinations of FBS and chick embryo extract, or turtle embryo extract. These culture conditions seem to be useful for the study of the developmental potency of the neural crest cells as well as for investigating local environmental factors. 
4295767|The ability of a normal rat liver epithelial cell line with phenotypic characteristics of "oval" cells to grow in calcium-poor medium has been investigated. The growth of these cells could be arrested in medium containing
4296603|Primary cultures of human reabsorptive sweat duct cells were grown in MCDB 170 medium buffered with either HEPES, bicarbonate, or a mixture of HEPES and bicarbonate buffers. Cultures grown in MCDB media containing bicarbonate seemed to differentiate into a multilayered, keratinized epithelium and began senescing after 1 wk in culture. In contrast, cultures grown in media containing HEPES as the only buffer seemed to undergo a selection process, resulting in the outgrowth of cells that did not multilayer or keratinize extensively for up to 3 or 4 wk in culture. Despite marked differences in growth, cells grown in both bicarbonate and HEPES-buffered media retained electrophysiologic characteristics appropriate to the progenitor. Mean resting potentials
4296674|Renal cortical thick ascending limbs of Henle's loop (CAL) and distal convoluted tubules (DCT) represent sites at which much of the final regulation of urinary ionic composition, particularly that of calcium, is accomplished in both humans and in rodents. We sought in the present work to develop an efficient means for isolating parathyroid hormone (PTH)-sensitive cells from these nephron segments and to grow them in primary culture. [CAL+DCT] cells were isolated from mouse kidney using an antiserum against the Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein which, in the renal cortex, is produced exclusively by these cells. A second antibody conjugated to coated ferrous particles permitted magnetic separation of [CAL+DCT] cells from Tamm-Horsfall negative renal cortical cells. Approximately 3  10
4296689|The regulation of growth and development of insects is under endocrine control and involves both juvenile hormones and ecdysteroids. Neuropeptides are master regulators which control the secretion of these hormones. Most experiments in insect endocrinology have been conducted in vivo, but tissue culture methodology is playing an increasing role due to the great interest in simpler model systems for the study of complex processes that occur in vivo. The availability of appropriate media has allowed the culture of a variety of insect organs and cell lines of defined origin which have kept certain properties of the parent tissues. Tissue culture approaches have been useful for studying hormonal control of morphogenetic processes. Cell lines are particularly suited to the study of hormonally regulated mechanisms of macromolecular biosynthesis and gene expression. Thus, the value of in vitro analysis in studies of regulation of hormone production is now recognized. Results obtained from tissue culture allow more precise definition of the hormonal requirements of insect cells and tissues for growth and differentiation and might make possible the discovery of new growth regulators.
4295833|Human Namalwa cells were screened in serum-free medium and in 6-thioguanine, then fused with human lymphocytes from lymph nodes of lung adenocarcinoma cancer patients. Extensive testing using 14 lung cancer cell lines, 11 other cancer cell lines and 4 normal fibroblast lines identified monoclonal antibodies produced by 4 hybridoma clones that reacted specifically with lung adenocarcinoma cells. These monoclonal antibodies also reacted with lung adenocarcinoma tissues and not normal tissues or erythrocytes of any blood type. These hybridoma clones grew and stably secreted the antibodies in serum-free medium as well as in serum-containing medium.
4295800|Isolated adult rat pancreatic islets were dispersed into single cells and cultured free-floating for 3 to 4 d, during which time islet cells reaggregated spontaneously into spherical clusters or pseudoislets. The gross morphology of these tissues resembled nondissociated islets. Electron microscopy revealed well-preserved cell ultrastructure and intercellular membrane connections. Immunofluorescent localization of islet cell types showed that A cells tended to be peripherally distributed around a B cell core, with D cells scattered throughtout the aggregate mass. The dynamics of insulin release from pseudoislets were evaluated in vitro by perifusion techniques. Pseudoislets exhibited clear biphasic dose-dependent insulin responses to 30 min glucose stimulation over the range 5.5 to 30 mM. Repeated 2-min pulses with 22 mM glucose elicited brief monophasic spikes of insulin release of consistent magnitude. L-Arginine (5 to 20 mM) evoked biphasic insulin release but these responses were not dose-dependent. These data indicate that islet cells reaggregate into structures with close morphologic similarities to intact islets, and that pseudoislet B cells continue to secrete insulin in response to nutrient secretagogues, comparable to that seen with islets in vitro and in situ.
4295769|The addition of certain proteases to cultures of Friend virus-infected mouse erythroleukemia cells can induce up to 90% of the cells in culture to become hemoglobin-containing, as assessed by positive staining for benzidine (B
4295720|An atmosphere containing 10% CO
4296560|The validity of limiting dilution assays can be compromised or negated by the use of statistical methodology which does not consider all issues surrounding the biological process. This study critically evaluates statistical methods for estimating the mean frequency of responding cells in multiple sample limiting dilution assays. We show that methods that pool limiting dilution assay data, or samples, are unable to estimate the variance appropriately. In addition, we use Monte Carlo simulations to evaluate an unweighted mean of the maximum likelihood estimator, an unweighted mean based on the jackknife estimator, and a log transform of the maximum likelihood estimator. For small culture replicate size, the log transform outperforms both unweighted mean procedures. For moderate culture replicate size, the unweighted mean based on the jackknife produces the most acceptable results. This study also addresses the important issue of experimental design in multiple sample limiting dilution assays. In particular, we demonstrate that optimization of multiple sample limiting dilution assays is achieved by increasing the number of biological samples at the expense of repeat cultures.
4296371|A human tumor cell line designated SU.86 has been established from a moderate-to-poorly differentiated pancreatic carcinoma of ductal origin specifically for adoptive immunotherapy studies. This line was characterized as to its ability to be lysed in vitro by autologous and allogeneic lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) and natural killer cells and to grow in nude mice. SU.86 has been growing continuously in cell culture for more than 100 passages since 22 September 1986. Transplantation orthotopically and heterotopically into athymic Swiss nude mice showed that tumor take was 100% in the orthotopic position when young (4 to 6 wk old) mice were used and 0% when adult (8 wk old) mice were used (P = 0.004). In the heterotopic position (subcutaneous), tumor take was 100% in neonate (2 to 3 wk old) and young mice and 50% in adults. The rate of tumor growth was inversely correlated with age (P < 0.001). The histologic pattern is similar to that observed in most human pancreatic carcinomas with pseudoglandular structures and frequent mitotic figures. SU.86 has a doubling time of 77 h in vitro and produces carcinoembryonic antigen,
4296608|Heparin-binding growth factor 1 (HBGF-1), also known as acidic fibroblast growth factor, is a potent mitogen and angiogenic factor found in tissues such as brain, kidney and heart. The genomic and cDNA sequences indicate that HBGF-1 does not have a typical signal peptide sequence. HBGF-1 was shown to be localized to the extracellular matrix of cardiac myocytes, but the mechanism of secretion is not presently known. We have cloned the HBGF-1 cDNA which allowed us to directly test the biological activity, mechanism of secretion and transforming potential of the recombinant protein. A previous report showed that the truncated HBGF-1 confers partial transformed phenotype to the recipient fibroblasts. However, expression of full-length HBGF-1 has not been reported. The HBGF-1 coding sequence was cloned into the retroviral expression vector, SVX, and transfected into NIH/3T3 cells. Transfectants expressing full-length HBGF-1 protein at high levels form foci and grow to a higher cell density than the parental NIH/3T3 cells. Western blotting analysis showed that the recombinant HBGF-1 is a unique band of approximately 20 kDa and can be detected in the cell homogenate but not in the conditioned medium. NIH/3T3 cells were conferred anchorage independence when HBGF-1 was provided exogenously. We showed the transformed cells are capable of growing on soft agar even in the absence of exogenously-provided HBGF-1. Transfected cells expressing HBGF-1 also induced tumor formation when injected into nude mice. Thus, NIH/3T3 cells acquired a full spectrum of transformed phenotype when full length HBGF-1 was expressed at high levels.
4296286|A nutrient mist was used for in vitro culture of plant tissue in a novel bioreactor, wherein the tissues were grown on a biologically inert screen within a sterile chamber which allows excess media to drain away from the tissue. Plants tested included Daucus, Lycopersicon, Ficus, Cinchona, and Brassica. The latter 4 genera were fully regenerated within the bioreactor. Tissue inocula included callus, anthers, and shoot meristems. All plants grew at least as well in nutrient mists as in agar and always produced a greater quantity of shoots of a higher quality and often faster than agar cultures. Cost analysis estimates showed up to a 65% savings in production costs (labor and materials) could be realized using nutrient mist culture. Nutrient mist culture offers significant improvements in the micropropagation of plants.
4296941|We established basic conditions for transient gene expression and selection of antibiotics in the cultured cell line of silkworm, Bombyx mon, by use of the promoter of the heat shock protein (hsp70) gene of Drosophila melanogaster. The control promoter (hsp70) promoted the expression of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene ligated at the downstream, dependent on the orientation of the promoter in the silkworm cell. The cell line is able to be supplied for the promoter assay of the silkworm genes. The concentration for the drug selection was determined as 0.75 mg/ml on neomycin analog, G418 (geneticin).
4296496|Thymic epithelial cells were grown in defined medium without unknown serum factors and without concurrent growth of other cell types. Thymic tissue was obtained from 1- to 4-wk-old mice, disaggregated, and incubated in a mixture of collagenase-dispase-DNAse. The resulting organoids were seeded on collagen-coated flasks. The culture medium consisted of DME-F12 with low or high concentration of Ca
4296955| Because the metabolic environment can alter gene expression in cultured cells, we examined the effects of change of medium on the levels of several cytochrome P450 mRNAs in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes maintained on Matrigel. The amounts of P450 1A2, 2B1/2, or 3A1 mRNA were unaffected by changing the medium. In contrast, P450 1A1 mRNA levels were increased 1 to 2 h after media change, reached maximum levels by 6 h, and declined to baseline by 24 h. Supplementing day-old media with components of the medium revealed that only addition of amino acids resulted in 1A1 mRNA induction. From the results of direct additions and omissions, we showed that tryptophan, but not histidine, was largely responsible for the 1A1 mRNA induction. Moreover, mild photoactivation of the tryptophan resulted in a substantially increased magnitude of 1A1 mRNA induction. The time course for 1A1 mRNA induction by treatment with photoactivated tryptophan was identical to that observed after medium change. Treatment of hepatocyte cultures with -naphthoflavone, which is metabolized by 1A1, also resulted in a transient 1A1 mRNA induction time-course profile over a 24-h period, whereas treatment with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, which is relatively stable to metabolic transformation, produced sustained elevations of 1A1 mRNA, suggesting that the transient response to tryptophan also may involve metabolism of the inducer. Our results extend previous data showing that oxidized products of tryptophan induce 1A1, and suggest that the transient nature of the induction may be due to elimination of the activated tryptophan molecule. 
4295818|FRTL-5 cells, a diploid line of differentiated rat thyroid epithelial cells, have been grown as multicellular spheroids in spinner culture. Spheroids were initiated by seeding FRTL-5 cells either into Lab-Tek dishes or culture flasks with a 0.5% agar base. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH, >1.0 mU/ml) was required for initial cell aggregation and spheroid growth. After 1 wk cellular aggregates were transferred to suspension culture in spinner flasks. As with FRTL-5 monolayer cultures, continued spheroid growth required the addition of TSH to the culture medium. The most unique characteristic of the FRTL-5 spheroids was the development of central lumina similar to thyroid follicles in vivo. Follicular structures were absent from spheroids not stimulated with TSH. In the presence of TSH epithelial cells seem metabolically active with morphological evidence of biosynthesis of thyroglobulin-like material and basal laminar-like components. In contrast, all evidence of cellular metabolic activity is absent from cells in spheroids maintained in the absence of TSH. Thus, nontransformed FRTL-5 cells grown as three-dimensional multicellular spheroids responded to hormonal manipulation in a manner comparable to follicular epithelial cells in vivo. This spheroid model might therefore prove to be a very effective tool for investigating aspects of thyroid physiology and pathology in vitro.
4296778|Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are currently used in the treatment of mental depression and nocturnal enuresis. Clinically, these drugs are useful; however, cardiotoxicity can occur even with therapeutic dosages. For example, TCAs are known to alter myocardial function, induce arrhythmias, and produce heart block in individuals with a normal cardiovascular history. The present study was undertaken to establish a culture system of spontaneously contracting adult primary myocardial cells for toxicologic testing and to examine their contractility, morphology, and lactate dehydrogenase release (LDH) after treatment with one of the most cardiotoxic TCAs, amitriptyline. Primary myocardial cell cultures were obtained from approximately 60- to 90-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats. After the cells had been grown in culture for 11 days, they were treated with amitriptyline (1  10
4296476|Many epithelial tissues are characterized by the presence of basal cells which serve the dual roles of self-renewal and of progression through terminal differentiation, to a functional state. Such tissues, when grown in vitro as primary explants, exhibit a characteristic pattern of outgrowth and development which includes both renewal and efforts toward normal differentiation. The degree of differentiation achieved depends upon conditions of culture and may be modulated in a variety of ways. The human prostate constitutes such a system and offers numerous possibilities for investigating basic control mechanisms in growth and development. Information on a variety of epithelial tissues is reviewed and experimental results using human prostate tissue are presented.
4296688|Culture medium supplementation with vertebrate serum results in the selection of fibroblastoid insect cell lines and a general decline during continuous subculturing of both morphologic and functional differentiation of the surviving cells. Essential lipid mixtures can substitute for vertebrate serum in the culture of insect and some vertebrate cells, tissues, parasites, and pathogens. The provision of sterols and essential (with nonessential) polyunsaturated fatty acids as phospholipids in oxidation-protected peptoliposomes or proteoliposomes allows cells in culture to duplicate in vivo specific membranes more accurately. Such lipid-corrected membranes allow cultured cells to communicate with neighboring cells through the extracellular matrix, effectively transmit hormonal signals directly and via receptor control, and respond with various tissue-specific functions and differentiation states as directed.
4296263|Primary cell cultures from twitcher (galactocerebrosidase deficient) mice were made by enzymatic dispersion and explantation of skin obtained from 3-d-old littermates of a twi+/twi x twi+/twi mating. Galactocerebrosidase activity remained deficient for two twitcher cell lines, TM-1 and TM-2, and both lines demonstrated an initial period of growth decline, followed by accelerated growth. The TM-2 line has been subcultured for more than 3.5 yr, has a modal chromosome number of 63, a doubling time of approximately 16 h, and has remained galactocerebrosidase deficient throughout its life span. These data indicate this to be an established twitcher cell line that can be continuously maintained in culture as a transformed galactocerebrosidase-deficient mouse cell line. This established line was rendered 6-thioguanine resistant so that the cells could be fused with control human fibroblasts and selected for hybrid lines in hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine medium. Also, the established twitcher cells were crossed with neomycin-resistant control human fibroblasts and selected in G418 medium. Several of the hybrid lines from both crosses had higher than deficient levels of galactocerebrosidase activity initially, followed by a decrease to twitcher levels during subculture, whereas other lines retained high levels of activity. These results indicate that twitcher-human somatic cell hybrids will express galactocerebrosidase activity and thus may be useful for determining the human chromosome or chromosomes associated with this expression.
4296793| Using the polymorphic DNA probes, ChdTC-15, ChdTC-114, pYNH24, and TM-18, a DNA profiling system was developed that verified identities of individual cultured cell lines collected in the Japanese cell banks, JCRB, RCB, and IFO. These highly polymorphic DNA probes include both VNTR (Variable Number of Tandem Repeats) sequences and substantial lengths of unique regions. In the mixed probe system, several distinct bands from four to eight can be used for cell line identification. These bands were widely spread in a range of molecular sizes, and were stable and reproducible under stringent conditions of Southern blot hybridization. Because the DNA profile was specific for each individual human cell line, it is useful not only to authenticate many existing cultured cell lines but also to monitor their identity during propagation in a laboratory, and to confirm newly established lines as unique. 
4295875|Proliferation of adult human prostatic epithelial cells in serum-free medium occurs upon the addition of cholera toxin, epidermal growth factor, pituitary extract, and hydrocortisone to basal medium PFMR-4A. Insulin and selenium enhance proliferation and permit growth at lower cell densities. Reducing the level of calcium in the medium dramatically alters morphology and also seems to increase proliferation. Mortal strains of cells derived from normal central or peripheral zone, benign hyperplasia, or cancer respond similarly to growth factors and calcium, but two populations of cancer cells which have been long-lived and may be immortal lines behave differently. GKC-CA cells require serum proteins or high levels of pituitary extract for optimal growth, and neither GKC-CA cells or cells of another cancer line, WB-CA, proliferate well in medium containing reduced levels of calcium. These observations may, however, be a reflection of attachment phenomena rather than of growth responses per se. Growth of cells in serum-free medium has allowed definitive studies of the effects of androgens, and regardless of cell type no response to androgens of prostate epithelial cells under any experimental conditions has been seen.
4296402|Large numbers of kidney epithelial cells were cultured successfully from isolated dog proximal tubule segments. Cells in primary culture and in first passage retained the cystine-dibasic amino acid co-transporter system which is found in vivo and in freshly isolated proximal tubule segments. In contrast to other cultured cells, the cystine-glutamate anti-porter was absent in primary cultures. However, this anti-porter system seemed to be developing in cells in first passage. The intracellular ratio of cysteine:reduced glutathione (CSH:GSH) was maintained at 1:36 in both primary cultures and in low passage cells. Incubation of cells in primary culture for 5 min at
4296176|Shoot tip cultures from 2- to 3-d-old seedlings of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench cv. IS3620C develop highly embryogenic callus from which plants can be regenerated when transferred to plant growth regulator-free medium. Isolated shoot tips were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 2.5 mg/liter 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid and 0.05 mg/liter kinetin. Purple pigmentation characteristic of sorghum cultures on growth regulator-free medium is virtually eliminated with the shoot tip culture. Embryogenic callus is white and hard with an undulating appearance but can be separated into multiple bipolar structures by application of gentle pressure. The well-developed embryos have a cup-shaped scutellum. These germinate like zygotic embryos and develop root-shoot axis. Lack of vascular connections to the parent tissue and the synchronous development of the plumule and radicle suggest that these embryos may be of unicellular origin. In contrast, when the entire seedling serves as the explant, all meristematic centers in the shoot, including the coleoptile sheath close to the apical meristem respond to plant growth regulators in the medium by callus formation. Upon subsequent reculture onto growth regulator-free medium several modes of development occur. The differential response of these tissues to identical culture conditions indicate the presence of different population of cells that respond differently to exogenous plant growth regulators.
4296860|The development of pulmonary hypertension in a wide variety of human disease states and experimental animal models characterized by chronic alveolar hypoxia is mediated by two pathologic vascular processes, a) vasoconstriction and b) vasoconstruction (structural remodeling). The anatomic changes seen within the pulmonary circulation include a) increased deposition of collagen and elastin in the adventitial layer and b) aberrant pulmonary vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and maturation in the medial segments. Despite the demonstrated ability of pharmacologic manipulation in the experimental animal to ameliorate both the structural and hemodynamic changes, the actual etiologic mechanisms are only beginning to be explored. Using the cell culture technique of co-cultivation, we have investigated the potential role of bovine pulmonary arterial endothelial cell-derived factors in mediating abnormal bovine smooth muscle cell growth under conditions of reduced oxygen tension. We have demonstrated that these cultured endothelial cells exposed in vitro to reduced levels of atmospheric oxygen concentrations of 5.0% and 2.5% O
4296143|The objective of this study was to establish a method by which trophectodermal cells originating from individual preimplantation bovine embryos could be perpetuated in monolayer culture. A single, Day-11 bovine embryo collected nonsurgically from a mixed-breed beef cow was cultured in Ham's F10 medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum, sodium pyruvate, insulin, and epidermal growth factor. After 13 d in culture the embryo had adhered to the surface of the plastic culture vessel and a monolayer covering
4296304|We have developed a serum-free medium for clonal growth of normal human muscle satellite cells (HMSC). It consists of an optimized nutrient medium, MCDB 120, plus a serum-free supplement, designated SF, that contains epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin, dexamethasone, bovine serum albumin, and fetuin. Fibroblast growth factor was needed with dialyzed fetal bovine serum (dFBS) as the only other supplement, but in media containing SF, it was only slightly beneficial, and was omitted from the final medium without significant loss. Clonal growth of HMSC in MCDB 120 plus SF is as good as with 15% serum and 0.5% chicken embryo or bovine pituitary extract. However, growth is further improved by use of a doubly-supplemented (DS) medium containing both SF and 5% dFBS. Clonal growth of HMSC in the DS medium far exceeds that in previous media with any amount of serum, and monolayer growth is at least equal to that in conventional media with higher levels of serum. Cells grown in these media exhibit little differentiation, even when grown to high densities. However, they retain the capacity for extensive fusion and synthesis of increased creatine kinase when transferred to a serum-free differentiation-promoting medium, such as Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium plus insulin. All experiments were done with clonal cultures of HMSC to insure that observed growth responses were always those of muscle cells.
4295865|Rabbit aortic smooth muscle cells were prepared by enzymatic digestion of the aortic smooth muscle layer. The cells were subcultured up to Passage 22 starting from a cryogenically preserved stock (approximately
4296933|The growth and differentiation of normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) were studied after propagation of serial cultures from breast tissue biopsies from 42 mammoplasty patients. Cells were grown for up to 7 mo. in low calcium medium. HMEC cultures displayed heterogeneous growth patterns, according to the average doubling time of
4296909|A method for the cultivation of organ explants from abdominal mammary glands of virgin mice has been established. In a serum-free medium containing aldosterone, prolactin, insulin, and cortisol (APIH medium) mammary gland development was documented by lobuloalveolar morphogenesis. The hormonal requirements for in vitro expression of beta-casein and of the mammary-derived growth inhibitor (MDGI) were tested. To this end, a full length cDNA coding for mouse MDGI was prepared displaying strong homologies to a mouse heart fatty acid binding protein, which is also expressed in the mammary gland. MDGI and beta-casein transcripts were found to be absent in the mammary tissue from primed virgin mice, and were induced upon culture of mammary explants in the APIH medium. An immunohistochemical analysis with specific antibodies against MDGI and casein revealed a different pattern of expression for the two proteins. In the APIH medium, MDGI was expressed mainly in differentiating alveolar cells of the lobuloalveolar structures, whereas beta-casein was present in both ductules and alveoli. The relationship between functional differentiation and MDGI expression was further studied in explants from glands of late-pregnant mice. At this stage of development, MDGI is found both in ducts and in alveoli. If explants were cultured with epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin, the lobuloalveolar structure was still present, whereas MDGI disappeared. Reinduction of MDGI expression was achieved by subsequent PIH treatment. Independent on developmental stage, EGF strongly inhibits MDGI mRNA expression. It is concluded that MDGI-expression is associated with functional differentiation in the normal gland.
4296414|Thecal cells isolated from bovine ovarian follicles were cultured with a serum-free basal medium or a serum-free complete medium in the presence or absence of collagen gel matrix, and their cellular proliferation and steroidogenesis were compared with those of cells cultured with a serum-containing medium. The cells cultured with the serum-free basal medium produced larger amounts of progesterone, androstenedione, and estradiol than the cells cultured with the serum-containing medium, but no appreciable cell proliferation was observed in the serum-free medium. Response of thecal cells to 8 bromo-cAMP, a steroidogenic agent, varied according to the type of steroid production examined and the type of culture medium used. In a cultivation period of 4 d, progesterone production was stimulated about five-fold by 8 bromo-cAMP in the serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix and in the serum-free basal medium without collagen matrix, whereas androstenedione production was stimulated about three- to fourfold in the serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix and in the serum-free basal medium with or without collagen matrix. Estradiol production, however, was significantly suppressed by 8 bromo-cAMP in the serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix and also in the serum-containing medium. Thus, among the conditions examined, the most suitable primary culture media for steroidogenesis of thecal cells were the serum-free media, especially serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix.
4296086|Tissue culture methods were developed for reproducible induction and maintenance of embryogenic (E) callus established from developmentally mature embryo explants of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) and grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Embryogenic callus was obtained by culturing seeds and mature embryos of wheat on Linsmaier and Skoog's (LS) medium containing 5 or 2 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), respectively, and for sorghum mature embryos on LS medium containing 2 mg/1 2,4-D plus 0.5 mg/liter kinetin. Plant regeneration from E callus was achieved for several months and quantified on a fresh-weight basis of E callus. Phenotypically normal plants were regenerated from E callus cultured on LS medium supplemented with 0.1 mg/liter IAA plus 0.5 mg/liter benzyladenine (BA) for wheat and 1.0 mg/liter IAA plus 0.5 mg/1 BA for sorghum.
20171563|Medial sesamoid bones from the metacarpophalangeal joints of calves were used for prolonged culture of anatomically intact articular cartilage on its natural bone support. The cartilage remained viable during culture, without signs of degeneration. After 1 wk of culture the cartilage showed an increased proteoglycan synthesis, and some minor changes in the composition of newly synthesized proteoglycans were observed. In the next 7 wk all studied parameters remained constant, except for the rate of proteoglycan synthesis, which declined between 4 and 8 wk to values just below those measured at the start of culture. Despite the fact that newly synthesized proteoglycans showed some altered biochemical properties, the composition of the total pool of proteoglycans did not change during 8 wk of culture. The significance of this phenomenon is discussed. This new in vitro model of intact articular cartilage offers a promising alternative to in vivo studies because in contrast to other in vitro models no surgical injury of the cartilage is introduced.
4296630|An effect of the hormone,
4295838|A completely defined medium (EHM-1), which reflects the amino acid composition of fetal rat serum and contains albumin as the sole proteinaceous compound, allows the accumulation of carbamoylphosphate synthetase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the presence of dexamethasone, dibutyryl cyclic AMP, and triiodothyronine to approximately twice the level attained in a standard culture medium (RPMI 1640) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (and hormones). Using the EHM-1 medium we could show that the capacity of hepatocytes to synthesize phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the presence of hormones is manifest as soon as the cells differentiate from the embryonic foregut (embryonic Day 11). Furthermore we could show that embryonic hepatocytes can become binuclear or polyploid when cultured in the presence of thyroid hormone.
20171505| A primary rabbit kidney epithelial cell culture system has been developed which retains differentiated functions of the renal proximal tubule. In addition, the cells have a distinctive metabolism and spectrum of hormone responses. The primary cells were observed to retain in vitro a Na-dependent sugar transport system (distinctive of the proximal segment of the nephron) and a Na-dependent phosphate transport system. Both of these transport processes are localized on the apical membrane of proximal tubule cells in vivo. In addition, probenicid-sensitive p-aminohippurate (PAH) uptake was observed in basolateral membranes of the primary tubule cells, and the PAH uptake by these vesicles occurred at a rate that was very similar to that observed with membranes derived from the original tissue. Several other characteristics of the primary cells were examined, including hormone-sensitive cyclic AMP production and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) activity. Like the cells in vivo, the primary proximal tubule cells were observed to produce significant cyclic AMP in response to parathyroid hormone, but not in response to arginine vasopressin or salmon calcitonin. Significant PEPCK activity was observed in the particulate fraction derived from a homogenate of primary rabbit kidney proximal tubule cells. 
20171393| The human hepatoblastoma line Hep G2 modulates gene expression in vitro in response to increasing culture density. Two stages of growth can be defined. At low density (&lt;200,000 cells/cm) the cultures have a doubling time of 24 h and exhibit several characteristics of fetal liver cells, including increased synthesis of alphafetoprotein, reduced synthesis of albumin, a predominance of the fetal isoenzymes of both aldolase and pyruvate kinase and a reduced level of the cell surface receptor for asialoglycoproteins. Confluent, high density cultures of Hep G2 (&gt;1 10 cells/cm) have a doubling time of 193 h, a four fold higher level of albumin production, increased levels of the adult isoenzymes of aldolase and pyruvate kinase and increased asialoglycoprotein receptor. The alteration in albumin and alphafetoprotein synthesis was reflected by changes in the messenger RNA levels and the relative transcription of these two genes. Hep G2 provides a cell culture model for the modulation of the liver phenotype which occurs during fetal/adult development or during liver regeneration. 
4295926|Trout liver was disaggregated by perfusion with collagenase. Highly purified populations of parenchymal cells were obtained, yielding up to
4295878|Stem cells of the embryonal carcinoma cell line called H6 can be induced to differentiate to endoderm-like cells by retinoic acid (
4296950|Tracheal epithelial cells were grown on Nuclepore filters coated with human placental collagen. When grown immersed in medium containing fetal bovine serum, cells displayed an undifferentiated ultrastructure (no cilia and a cell height of
4296912|We have reported the establishment of two interleukin (IL)-2-dependent human leukemic cell lines (TALL-103/2
4296311|Vascular endothelial cells modulate their structure and functions in response to changes in hemodynamic forces such as fluid shear stress. We have studied how endothelial cells perceive the shearing force generated by blood flow and the substance(s) that may mediate such a response. We identify cytoplasmic-free calcium ion (Ca
4296581|Methods for the isolation and in vitro culture of larval and adult Xenopus laevis epidermal cells have been developed. Epidermal cells of stage 52-54 tadpoles and adult epidermal cells were enzymatically dissociated and purified (98%) by Percoll-density centrifugation and unit-gravity sedimentation. Both cell types attached on fibronectin-coated dishes and proliferated for 1 wk when the proper medium was used. There were four significant differences between larval and adult cells: a) Adult cells had a greater buoyant density than larval cells. b) Keratin synthesis patterns were markedly different. c) A combination of medium F12 and Eagle's minimum essential medium was optimal for growth of larval cells whereas MCDB151 medium was optimal for adult cells. d) Adult cells needed fetal bovine serum (>5%) whereas larval cells grew without fetal bovine serum. In contrast to these differences, larval and adult cells had two similar properties: a) Insulin had a potent effect on the growth of both cells, and b) The optimal Ca
20171425|Supplementation of Ham's F12 culture medium with essential amino acids (EAA) up to the rat plasma levels increased the rates of synthesis of albumin and transferrin by cultured rat hepatocytes by 1.3 and 1.7, respectively. Fifty percent of this increase could be attributed to three of the EAA: the branched-chain amino acids (BCAA: Leu Ile and Val). Non-branched-chain essential amino acids (non-BC-EAA) stimulated only 25% of the increase produced by the whole EAA mixture. When each EAA was tested individually, none of them caused an appreciable increase in albumin and transferrin in culture medium. When the concentrations of all EAA were raised to rat postprandial portal levels, albumin and transferrin synthesis rates reached a maximum, increasing by 3.2 and 3.5, respectively. Supplementation with BCAA at postprandial portal concentrations increased albumin and transferrin synthesis rates by 2.2 and 2.0, respectively, and had no noteworthy effect on the synthesis of cellular proteins. Non-BC-EAA at their postprandial portal concentrations increased albumin and transferrin synthesis rates by 1.7 and 1.9, respectively. Supplementation with alanine to reach a nitrogen content equal to that of the modified EAA-enriched medium had no stimulatory effect. Our results show that EAA have a specific effect on the synthesis of plasma proteins by cultured hepatocytes, and that BCAA at physiologic concentrations account for the major part of this stimulatory effect. Consequently, EAA and particularly BCAA concentration should be elevated in serum-free nutrient media to sustain maximum plasma protein synthesis.
4296820|Hepatocytes isolated from rats bearing line A of Walker 256 carcinoma (WA) were used to study the turnover of total liver protein and the synthesis of albumin in comparison with ad libitum (AL) and pair-fed (PF) healthy controls. The rates of total protein synthesis by hepatocytes of WA animals were 40 and 90% higher than in AL and PF controls, respectively. The degradation of fast-turnover proteins was not affected by nutrition or by the tumor, whereas the degradation of slow-turnover proteins was slightly but significantly increased-about 24% higher in hepatocytes from WA rats than in PF controls. The combination of the two processes, synthesis and degradation, was in favor of an increased synthesis which explains the increase in liver protein content observed in vivo in WA rats. Dietary restriction did not affect the synthesis and secretion of albumin, whereas the tumor significantly reduced its synthesis by about 30%. The plasma concentration of albumin in WA rats dropped by about the same percentage compared with AL and PF animals.
4296025|Microvascular cells are most vulnerable to direct oxygen damage. Using an in vitro model system we have investigated the effect of elevated oxygen on the proliferation, morphology, and integrity of microvascular endothelial cells (EC) and pericytes. Cultivation of these cells at oxygen concentrations of 40% for 1 wk resulted in the inhibition of EC proliferation but had no effect on the growth of the pericytes. Similarly, hyperoxia induced a dramatic change in the shape of the EC, increasing their spread area by close to six-fold. Under the same conditions, the spread area of the pericytes was unaffected. To understand the effect of the hyperoxic treatment on the cells, the integrity of various membrane systems was assessed.
20171398| A mitogenic factor which promotes quail myoblast proliferation has been purified some 10-fold from chick embryo extract by a combination of cation-exchange chromatography and heparin-affinity chromatography. The factor is eluted from heparin-Sepharose with 2 M NaCl and is a single-chain polypeptide with an apparent molecular weight of 15 000 to 17 000. It is active at subnanogram level in triggering the proliferation and thereby delaying temporarily fusion of myoblasts. It also stimulates the proliferation of quail fibroblasts in a similar effective concentration range. For both myoblasts and fibroblasts the dose-response to the factor is quantitatively and qualitatively comparable with that of bovine pituitary fibroblast growth factor. These observations strongly suggest that the factor very probably corresponds to chicken fibroblast growth factor or to a closely related molecule(s) and that it is possibly involved in the regulation of myogenesis. 
4296455| Embryogenic callus induced from mature caryopses of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) were placed in liquid half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium and supplemented with 6.0 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D), 3 g/l (w/v) casein hydrolysate (CH), and B5 vitamins, to initiate fast-growing highly embryogenic cell suspension cultures. Newly initiated suspension cultures contained a high level of large non-embryogenic cells (NE) with relatively few embryogenic (E) cells. Cell types were separated by discontinuous Percoll gradients or by filtering the newly initiated cultures through 31-m nylon mesh. The growth conditions of the E cells were optimized by testing various media components including 2,4-D and sucrose, and subculture dilution ratio. Optimal shoot formation occurred after pretreatment of the embryogenic cells on solidified callus maintenance medium supplemented with 60 mg/l cefotaxime for 4 weeks prior to transfer to regeneration medium. Regeneration media consisted of half-strength MS basal medium supplemented with B5 vitamins, 0.5 mg/l fluridone, and 0.5 mg/l BA. Most plants regenerated were albino with only a few green plants. 
20171458|A human cholangiocellular carcinoma cell line, HuCC-T1, was established in vitro from the malignant cells of ascites of a 56-yr-old patient. Histologic findings of the primary liver tumor revealed a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Tumor cells from the ascites have been cultured with RPMI 1640 medium containing 0.2% lactalbumin hydrolysate and the cultured cells grew as monolayers with a population doubling time of 74 h during exponential growth at Passage 25. They had an epithelial-like morphology and were positive for mucine staining. Ultrastructural studies revealed the presence of microvilli on the cell surface and poorly developed organelles in the cytoplasm. The HuCC-T1 cell was tumorigenic in nude mice. The number of chromosomes in HuCC-T1 ranged from 61 to 80. These human cholangiocellular carcinoma cells in serum-free medium secreted several tumor markers, including carbohydrate antigen 19/9, carbohydrate antigen 125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and tissue polypeptide antigen. The carbohydrate antigen 19/9 secretion level of HuCC-T1 cells cultured in RPMI 1640 medium with 1% fetal bovine serum was sixfold higher than that with 0.2% lactalbumin hydrolysate. These findings suggest that HuCC-T1 will provide useful information to clarify the mechanism of tumor marker secretion and tumor cell growth in the human cholangiocellular carcinoma.
4296978| The human carcinoma line RPMI 2650 produces autocrine factors; they are detected by the ability of RPMI 2650 conditioned medium (CM) to stimulate growth in soft agar of RPMI 2650 cells plated at low density. The autocrine activity in crude CM can be fractionated by ultrafiltration into a lower molecular weight (MW) fraction (R1-30), which concentrates molecules in the 1000-30000 Da range; and a higher MW fraction (R30) with molecules greater than 30000 Da in a more concentrated form. R1-30 is labile to acid, base, and heat treatment, whereas R30 is stable to (and sometimes activated by) these treatments. Boiling of R30, however, renders it labile to acid, base, and trypsin treatments. CM can be separated into a weakly heparin-binding fraction (with stability properties similar, but not identical, to R1-30), and a non-heparin binding fraction (with stability properties similar to R30). RPMI 2650 cells secrete transforming growth factor (TGF)- and TGF-like molecules, but the R1-30 fraction can be distinguished from these TGFs, and from most other known growth factors, by its unusual combination of acid lability and weak affinity for heparin. Since the R30/non-heparin binding fraction is rendered labile by boiling or acid treatment, it may represent a bound or conformationally stable form of a growth factor. 
4296123|Human colonic adenocarcinoma cells have been successfully grown on polystyrene microcarriers by modifying the culture conditions used in monolayer culture. The method can be divided into two culture phases: a) a phase of spreading, wherein cells were seeded in presence of serum-supplemented medium; b) a phase of active growth wherein spread cells on the beads were allowed to grow in a serum-free medium. Under these conditions, optimal spreading and growth of HT 29 and HRT 18 cells on the microcarriers were obtained. A differential propagation was observed between HT 29-D4 and HT 29-D9 cells (both clonal populations derived from HT 29 cells) on the microcarriers that is tentatively related to the discrepancy observed in the spreading efficiency of these clonal cells on serum-coated culture flasks. An index of spreading efficiency (IS index) has been defined to quantify the efficiency of spreading of each cell line on microcarriers. These data gave the opportunity to develop serum-free, scale-up methods to culture cells like HT 29 which release potentially useful products.
20171440|During methotrexate-induced differentiation of cultured human choriocarcinoma (BeWo) cells, proliferation is inhibited, morphologic and biochemical changes occur, and giant, often multinucleated, cells form. We have used the increase in cell volume as a marker of the mature syncytiotrophoblastlike phenotype. Uninduced and differentiated BeWo cells are not spherical, and theoretical considerations suggested that deviations in shape could result in significant errors in Coulter volume. To determine if the values obtained by electrical pulse sizing reflected the actual mass of BeWo cells, we have evaluated the relationship between Coulter volumes and intracellular water volumes obtained using a shape-independent estimate for eight cell types. A close correlation (r = 0.97) was found, indicating that cell volume changes in populations of irregularly shaped cells can be accurately measured using a Coulter instrument.
4296562|To better understand possible autocrine or paracrine mechanisms involved in adipose tissue development, we have studied the biosynthesis of insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I) and prostaglandin
4295961|The characteristics of hormone-dependent rat mammary tumors in response to serum and hormones were determined in collagen gel matrix culture. Epithelial cells from 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary adenocarcinomas were embedded in collagen gel and the effect of estrogen, progesterone, prolactin, insulin, and serum was tested. The total cell number and [
4296720|Culture medium conditioned with concanavalin A-stimulated mononuclear leukocytes was tested for its ability to stimulate in vitro proliferation of bovine placental cells. The crude preparation of cytokines caused a dose-dependent increase in [
4296149|A cotton cell suspension culture has been developed that provides unique opportunities for plant biologists to investigate early developmental events regulating cotton fiber properties, plant cell elongation, and cell wall biogenesis. The suspension culture was derived from cells of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) ovule callus. These cells undergo the stages of fiber development previously described for in vivo fiber development. Fibers range in length up to 11 mm and have secondary walls.
4296172|The cell growth and monoclonal antibody production characteristics of two rat x mouse heterohybridoma cell lines, designated 187.1 and M1/9.3, were investigated using a biocompatible microencapsulation technology. Both cell lines, derived from the fusion of immunized rat spleen cells with either the NS1 or X63Ag8.653 myeloma cell lines, were found to reach a maximum intracapsular cell density of 1.3 to
20171561|Cell motility (i.e., movement) is an essential component of normal development, inflammation, tissue repair, angiogenesis, and tumor invasion. Various molecules can affect the motility and positioning of mammalian cells, including peptide growth factors, (e.g., EGF, PDGF, TGF-beta), substrate-adhesion molecules (e.g., fibronectin, laminin), cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), and metalloproteinases. Recent studies have demonstrated a group of motility-stimulating proteins which do not appear to fit into any of the above categories. Examples include: 1) scatter factor (SF), a mesenchymal cell-derived protein which causes contiguous sheets of epithelium to separate into individual cells and stimulates the migration of epithelial as well as vascular endothelial cells; 2) autocrine motility factor (AMF), a tumor cell-derived protein which stimulates migration of the producer cells; and 3) migration-stimulating factor (MSF), a protein produced by fetal and cancer patient fibroblasts which stimulates penetration of three-dimensional collagen gels by non-producing adult fibroblasts. SF, AMF, and MSF are soluble and heat labile proteins with Mr of 77, 55, and 70 kd by SDS-PAGE, respectively, and may be members of a new class of cell-specific regulators of motility. Their physiologic functions have not been established, but available data suggest that they may be involved in fetal development and/or tissue repair.
4296010| Somatic embryos of orchardgrass became quiescent when desiccated to 13% water. Twelve percent germinated after 21 d of desiccated storage at 23 C and 4% developed into green plants. During desiccation, embryos decreased in size, became yellowish and brittle, and their outer walls collapsed. Within 15 min after imbibition, they rapidly enlarged and were indistinguishable from nondesiccated embryos. These results suggest that somatic embryos may be engineered to function as synthetic seeds for mass propagation. 
4295863|A method is described for culturing human mammary epithelial cells in primary culture and allowing more than 50 generations and a 1000-fold increase from starting inocula without need of enzymatic transfers. Organoids dissociated from breast tissue are plated in medium containing
4296459| An epithelial cell line (RC-4B/C) was established from a pituitary adenoma obtained from a 3-yr-old (ACI/fMai x F344/fMai)Fl male rat. Before Year 5 in vitro, RC-4B/C cells could not be viably recovered from cryogenic storage. Recovery of viable cells from cryogenic storage in Year 5 was associated with a more transformed phenotype, including the appearance of endogenous G-type rat retroviral particles. The ultra structural appearance of the cells was similar to that of differentiated anterior pituitary cells; the cultured cells contained numerous, electron dense, secretory granules, Golgi complexes, and extended arrays of rough endoplasmic reticulum. Immunocytochemical study showed that all cell types present in the rat anterior pituitary gland were present in the cell line. The percentage of luteinizing hormone beta (LH) cells in the cell line was higher (19.9%) and that of growth hormone cells was lower (12.2%) than in normal male rat pituitary, whereas the cell line contained a comparable percentage of follicle stimulating hormone beta (FSH), prolactin (PRL), ACTH, and thyrotropin beta cells. Radioimmunoassay data demonstrated the PRL content of the cells was comparable to that of normal male rat pituitary gland, whereas the content of LH and FSH was 70- and 800-fold lower, respectively. Assay of specific receptor sites for gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) using Scatchard plots of the data established the RC-4B/C cells contained GnRH receptor sites of the same affinity as in the pituitary gland, but of twofold lower capacity. These data suggest the RC-4B/C cell line warrants further study as a model for the induction and maintenance of the gonadotropic function of the pituitary gland. 
4296001|Epithelial cells from the normal mouse thymus were successfully cultivated on tissue culture plastic when plated with lethally irradiated support cells of the LA7 rat mammary tumor line. As the irradiated LA7 cells slowly decreased in number the thymus cells proliferated concomitantly to form a confluent monolayer. The cells now in culture have been subcultured 8 times, have doubled in number at least 30 times, and are still proliferating vigorously. The culture technique also supported clonal growth from a single cell, and nine clones have been isolated. The colony-forming efficiency of thymic cells plated at low concentrations was about 8%. These cultures were never overgrown by fibroblasts. The thymus cells were characterized as epithelial by the presence of cytoplasmic keratin and numerous desmosomes and tonofilaments. They were shown to be mouse cells by immunocytochemistry with species specific antibodies, by isoenzyme analysis, and by karyology. The cells stained when reacted with antibodies to tubulin, vimentin, and actin, but not with antibodies to Thy-1.2, Lyt-1, Lyt-2, Ia, or H-2 proteins. More than 85% of the cells had a normal mouse diploid chromosome number of 40. This culture technique opens the way for future studies of T-cell education with homogeneous thymic epithelial cell populations both in vitro and after reimplantation into genetically defined strains of mice.
4296905|Scleral fibroblasts, perichondrial cells of the scierai layer of the 12-day chick embryo, always manifest a fibroblastic morphology in monolayer culture. In soft-agar culture, these cells produce two types of colonies. One type of colony, F-type, consists of adherent fibroblastic cells, and the other, C-type, is composed of scattered round chondrocytic cells. Cells of the C-type colony are surrounded by a halo of extracellular matrix, positive with Alcian blue and with an antibody to cartilage-specific proteoglycan. When a single fibroblast clone in monolayer, derived from a single scierai fibroblast, is subcultured into soft agar, the cells give rise to both C-type and F-type colonies. Further, it was found that cells constituting F-type colonies eventually separate and become spherical, and the F-type colony converts to a C-type colony (C-type conversion). In regard to the C-type convertibility, the primary fibroblast clones were divided into four categories, early time differentiating, middle-time differentiating, late-time differentiating and nondifferentiating. This suggests that the scierai perichondrial layer of the 12-day chick embryo is composed of a variety of cells with different chondrogenic potentialities maintained in each individual cell.
4296395|The use of somatic embryos from cell culture systems in the clonal propagation of plants would be greatly facilitated if the somatic embryos could be dried and stored in a dormant state similar to true seeds. A cell culture system was developed for alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) line RL34 which gave high yields of somatic embryos in an approximately synchronized pattern. These somatic embryos were treated with abscisic acid (ABA) at the cotyledonary stage of development to induce desiccation tolerance. With no visual preselection, approximately 60% of the dried embryos converted into plants upon reimbibition. When high quality embryos were selected prior to drying, 90 to 100% conversion rates were observed. The timing of the application of ABA in terms of embryo development was critical with an optimum being at cotyledonary stage spanning approximately 4 days; thus, synchronized embryo development is required for optimal expression in bulk samples. The vigor of the seedlings from dried somatic embryos was greater than those from embryos which had not been dried, but remained substantially lower than those from true seeds.
4296545|We describe a simple technique for maintaining highly contractile long-term chicken myogenic cultures on Matrigel, a gel composed of basement membrane components extracted from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm mouse tumor. Cultures grown on Matrigel consist of three-dimensional multilayers of cylindrical, contracting myotubes which endure for at least 60 d without myotube detachment. A Matrigel substrate increases the initial plating efficiency but does not effect cell proliferation. Large-scale differentiation in cultures maintained on Matrigel is delayed by 1 to 2 d, compared to cultures grown on gelatin-coated dishes. Long-term maintenance on Matrigel also results in increased expression of the neonatal and adult fast myosin heavy chain isoforms. Culturing of cells on a Matrigel substrate could thus facilitate the study of later events of in vitro myogenesis.
4296350|Pituitary tumoral tissue from 20 acromegalic patients was cultured for up to 120 d in a medium containing 5 nM cortisol. In all cultures, growth hormone (GH) release decreased. At the beginning of the culture, prolactin (PRL) was detected in 18 adenomas, varying from 0.5 to 1000 ng per flask per day. Thereafter, in 10 cases PRL secretion increased from 3 to 50 times the basal level, most frequently after a lapse of 9 to 30 d. PRL secretion remained low in three cases, undetectable in one case only. When added at 350 nM, cortisol increased GH secretion up to 20-fold and simultaneously decreased PRL secretion by as much as 10% of the basal level. Withdrawing cortisol reversed the situation. Immunocytochemical studies of the tumor at surgery showed, besides GH immunoreactive (IR) cells, PRL-IR cells (from rare cells to 10% of total cells) in 15 adenomas, correlating with the first days of culture PRL levels. In cultured explants, mitoses were never found. In 5 nM cortisol medium, the number of GH-IR cells decreased and PRL-IR cells increased or appeared. With 350 nM cortisol, the number of GH-IR cells increased, and PRL-IR cells were scarce or absent. Immunoreactivities for GH and PRL were found in different cells. Care was taken to exclude cultures containing normal pituitary tissue, and because no mitoses were found, these results suggest that most somatotropic adenomas can reversibly shift their secretion from GH to PRL in culture. This capacity to secrete PRL, hidden or low in vivo, is revealed by the favorable low cortisol conditions present in vitro.
4296738|Crosslinking of
4296224|Twelve insect cell lines were tested for their ability to synthesize chitin. Three of the 7 lepidopteran lines tested (UMN-PIE, IAL-PID2, MRRL-CH) produced a hyamine-resistant material that was digested by chitinase. The material did not withstand a more rigorous base digestion, and 20-hydroxyecdysone and diflubenzuron had no consistent effect on the production of the material. One of the 5 cockroach cell lines (UMBGE-4), which is an ecdysone-producing vesicle line, produced a material resistant to a strong base which was degraded to chitobiose and N-acetylglucosamine by chitinase. Production of this material by the cells is increased by 20-hydroxyecdysone and inhibited by diflubenzuron. The UMBGE-4 vesicles are covered with microvilli which bear membrane plaques and produce extra cellular material that resembles insect cuticle.
4296509|Plants develop from meristems where cells proliferate and are partitioned into layers that eventually differentiate to form the various tissues and organs of the plant. A phenomenon unique to certain plant tissues is the ability to induce de nova a range of developmental patterns, including embryogenesis. The temporal and spacial distribution of these developmental competencies suggests that regulatory proteins, rather than a lack of signals or signal receptors, shield specific developmental genes from signals that otherwise would confuse development. Studies involving embryogenic cells demonstrate that they are not strongly shielded from developmental signals, thus they are not determined. Furthermore, the normal development of zygotic and somatic embryos is readily perturbed by abnormal physicochemical environments. This suggests that embryogeny remains developmentally plastic until differentiation is largely completed. The ability to induce somatic embryogenesis from specific tissues by specific signals is providing opportunities to further the molecular characterization of the menagerie of genetic regulation involved in development.
20171463|The human uterine cervix consists of an endocervical canal lined with a single layer of columnar mucus-secreting cells and an outer ectocervix covered by a stratified squamous epithelium. We report here the culture of human endocervical epithelial cells (HEnE) and human ectocervical epithelial cells (HEcE) in serum-free medium (KGM). Both HEnE and HEcE cultures were composed of keratinocytelike cells which formed desmosomal contacts and stratified in the presence of high concentrations of calcium ions. Cells with a pleomorphic epithelial morphology were observed in HEnE cultures, but not in HEcE cultures. Keratin 18, which is characteristic of endocervix in vivo, was detected by indirect immunofluorescent staining in all HEnE cells but was never detected in cultured HEcE. HEcE expressed keratin 13 which is characteristic of ectocervix in vivo. Although keratin 13 was never detected in primary HEnE cultures, it was expressed in passaged HEnE cultures grown in medium with high concentrations of calcium and in late passage HEnE cultures. HEnE underwent an average of 15.1 population doublings during serial culture. Mean colony-forming efficiency during Passages 2 to 3 was 14.7% and mean population doubling time was 17.8 h. HEcE cultures underwent significantly more population doublings (29.0) than HEnE cultures, whereas colony-forming efficiencies and doubling times were similar to those determined for HEnE. HEnE and HEcE cells may be useful in developing in vitro models of cervical squamous metaplasia and for exploring the interactions between target cell differentiation, carcinogens, and papillomaviruses in the development of cervical neoplasia.
4296204|Callus cultures of Picea engelmannii (Parry, Engelmann spruce) were initiated and established from mature embryos cultured on von Arnold and Eriksson's medium (AE) supplemented with
4295770|This study demonstrated the importance of the methods used in determining the lymphoma cell colony stimulating activity of factors derived from lymphoma cells. The in vitro colony formation in a semisolid matrix of the AKR mouse lymphoma cell line, SL 12, and three cloned derivatives, SL 12.1, SL 12.3, and SL 12.4, was studied. We show that the use of soft agar or methylcellulose as a semisolid matrix results in colony formation by the lymphoma cells only in the presence of serum. The addition of conditioned medium (CM) from lymphoma cells growing in serum-free medium does not stimulate colony growth. However, when purified agarose is used, colonies grow in a dose-dependent manner in the absence of serum and in the presence of CM. These results indicate that the type of semisolid matrix used can influence results in studies of this nature. Purified agarose provides the best environment when colony formation by lymphoma cells is used to measure the presence of growth factors in test-conditioned media.
4296638|Coculture of two different cell lines in monolayer or spheroids was used to investigate the spontaneous transfer of dominant genes determining drug resistance. MGH-U1 human bladder cancer cells (ouabain-sensitive, mitomycin C-resistant) were cocultured with UV-20 cells (a subline of Chinese hamster ovary cells which is ouabain-resistant and mitomycin C-sensitive). We investigated the possible transfer of mitomycin-C resistance from human to rodent cells by selection in both ouabain and mitomycin C. Regardless of coculture conditions, the frequency of surviving cells was at a similar level to that expected from studies of cell survival when cells were cultured alone. We found no evidence of spontaneous transfer of drug resistance between the two cell lines.
4295862|Callus cultures derived from roots of summer squash (Cucurbita pepo L. c.v. Early Prolific Straightneck) grown in the dark at
4295802|We report here on the establishment of a Cydia pomonella (Cp) hybrid cell line IZD-Cp 4/13. As there have been no reports on somatic cell fusion involving lepidopteran cell lines so far, we had to develop an appropriate fusion procedure. We first tried-but without much success-to obtain HAT (hypoxanthine, aminopterin and thymidine)- or TAM (thymidine, adenine, and methotrexate)-selectable strains of the three Cydia pomonella cell lines IZD-Cp 2202, IZD-Cp 0508 and Cp 169. We then tried and succeeded in developing a fusion procedure based on the use of biochemically blocked permanent cells as one partner in the fusion. Biochemically inhibited IZD-Cp 2202 cells and embryonic Cp cells were hybridized by polyethyleneglycol treatment. The cells of the hybrid cell line IZD-Cp 4/13 differ from the permanent parental cells (cell line IZD-Cp 2202) with respect to morphology, DNA content, isoenzyme patterns, and response to challenge with the Choristoneura murinana nuclear polyhedrosis virus.
4296169|A new renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell line (KRC/Y) has been established from a surgical specimen of a 41-yr-old Japanese female patient with RCC composed of both clear cells and granular cells. This cell line has been maintained for more than 15 mo. through 45 passages with a stable growth. KRC/Y cells have clear or eosinophilic polygonal cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei with one or two nucleoli, and proliferate in a pavementlike cell arrangement with a lack of contact inhibition. By electron microscopy, these cells contain abundant fat droplets and glycogen granules or well-developed organelles or both, which were also observed in the original tumor. The doubling time of these cells at the 15th passage was 73 h. The chromosome number was from 37 to 45 with a hypodiploid modal number of 42. Tumorigenicity was identified by tumor formation after subcutaneous injections of KRC/Y cells in nude mice, which showed close resemblance to the original tumor by light and electron microscope observations.
20171459|Human arterial smooth muscle cells (hASMC) from explants of the inner media of uterine arteries were studied in secondary culture. We had previously found that these cells depend on exogenous plantelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) for proliferation in vitro. Deprivation of the serum mitogen(s) by culture in plasma-derived serum or bovine serum albumin (BSA) caused a true growth arrest that was reversible upon reexposure to the mitogen(s). When added to serum-containing medium, heparin caused a reversible growth arrest which could be competed for by incrasing concentratioins of serum. In the current study we used a set of sommth muscle-specific actin and myosin antibodies to study the expression of contractile proteins in stress fibers under indirect immunofluorescence on hASMC in culture. Even in sparse culture, growth-arrested hASMC expressed stress fibers containing these actinand myosin epitopes. This was true irrespective of whether growth arrest was achieved by culture in media containing only BSA or a combination of heparin and whole blood serum. hASMC proliferating in whole blood serum in sparse culture did not express such stress fibers, as judged by immunofluorescent staining. This was true also for cells that were restimulated to proliferate in serum after a growth arrest. Utilizing a monoclonal antibody against a nuclear antigen expressed in proliferating human cells, we were able to demonstrate an inverse relationship between the expression of this antigen and the SMC-specific contractile proteins, respectively. Under these culture conditions, the reversible transition between dedifferentiated and differentiated hASMC was almost complete and terminated about 1 wk after the change in culture condition. We conclude that hASMC in vitro respond to expgenous PDGF by proliferation and dedifferentiation as a single population of cells. We also conclude that this modulation is reversible, because the cells become uniformly quiescent and didfferentiated when the mitogenic stimulus is blocked or removed.
4295984|A human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell line (KYN-1) has been established from a resected HCC of a 58-yr-old Japanese, male patient with HCC. Original resected HCC was moderately differentiated and proliferated in a solid pattern with vague trabecular structure in part. This cell line has been maintained for 10 mo. through 50 passages. Morphological features of KYN-1 cells demonstrated one or more large, round-to-oval nuceli with prominent nucleoli and eosinophilic polygonal-to-spindle abundant cytoplasm. In addition, some of these cells contained mucicarmin-positive materials in the cytoplasm. The cells exhibited a typical epithelial feature with pavementlike cell arrangement, and lacked contact inhibition. The doubling times of the cells grown in a serum-containing and a serum-free medium were about 31 h and 10 to 11 d, respectively. Functionally, KYN-1 cells produced albumin,
4295784| The commercial source of fetal bovine serum used to supplement the growth medium of human skin fibroblasts alters the activity of the lysosomal enzyme dipeptidyl aminopeptidase-1 (DAP-1). Cells grown with one serum were found to have a threefold higher level of DAP-1 than those grown with serum from another source (P <0.001). The effect on DAP-1 activity was specific inasmuch as no differences were found in the activities of a variety of other lysosomal and nonlysosomal hydrolases: DAP-II, DAP-III, DAP-IV, -glucosidase, -glucuronidase, and iV-acetyl--galactosaminidase. The effect is reversible and is observed over a wide range of cell population doublings. Cell growth kinetics were not significantly different with the different sera. 
4296100|A major obstacle to applying the techniques of molecular biology to the genetics and cell biology of pigmentation has been our inability to grow normal murine melanocytes in culture. We report here the establishment and characterization of continuously proliferating cultures of cutaneous pigment cells from seven strains of mice. Melanocytes were grown from the dermis of newborn mice in medium containing 12-0-tetradecanoyl-13-phorbol-acetate; a substance, such as melanotropin, that raises intracellular levels of cyclic AMP; and an extract made from human placenta.
4296807| Gap junctional communication was examined in rat myometrial smooth muscle cells cultured under a variety of conditions. As a functional measure of gap junctional communication, donor cells were microinjected with the fluorescent dye, Lucifer yellow, and the transfer of dye from donor cells to primary neighbor cells was monitored by fluorescence microscopy. In a myometrial smooth muscle cell line established from midgestation (Day 10) rats, high levels of dye transfer, in excess of 90%, were observed in primary cultures and at Passages 1 and 10. A slight decrease in dye transfer to 75% was observed at Passage 5. Similarly, high levels of dye transfer were observed in a smooth muscle cell line established from the myometrium of a late-gestation (Day 19) rat under subconfluent as well as confluent culture conditions. Myometrial smooth muscle cell cultures established from sexually immature 19-day-old rats also exhibited high levels of dye transfer in primary cultures and at Passage 10. Treatment of primary myometrial smooth muscle cell cultures derived from immature 19-day-old rats with 17-estradiol (50 ng/ml) and 4-pregnen-3,20-dione (150 ng/ml) for 48 h in vitro had no significant effect on the high levels of dye transfer. Thus, extensive dye transfer was observed in the rat myometrial smooth muscle cells under all culture conditions examined, regardless of sexual maturity or gestational stage of the animal, in vitro hormone treatment, or cell density. 
4295791|Smooth muscle cell cultures were prepared from stomach explants obtained surgically from 10 patients with duodenal ulcer. The cultured cells grew in either overlapping layers in "hills and valleys" or in parallel arrays. The ultrastructure studies showed plasmalemmal vesicles, bundles of myofilaments associated with dense bodies, and gap junctions. The synthesis of contractile proteins illustrated the preponderance of actin on myosin and tropomyosin. The synthesis of contractile proteins in stomach smooth muscle cell cultures is significantly higher than in skin fibroblast cultures, i.e. 20 x higher for myosin, 10 x higher for actin, and 30 x higher for tropomyosin.
4296683|We have developed a tissue culture system using an extract of basement membrane (extracellular matrix) which promotes the in vitro growth and development of uterine luminal epithelium from the 5-day-old rat. Uterine luminal epithelium, free of stroma, was obtained as short tubes by trypsinization of uterine segments followed by mechanical separation. Epithelial segments were grown in a serum-free medium on culture dishes coated with an extracellular matrix. After 2 days, rapid cell growth resulted in monolayer cultures, which subsequently formed organoid structures similar to differentiated uterine glands present in uterine tissue taken from older rats. Electron microscopy of cultures revealed columnar cells with basally located nuclei, apical microvilli, lateral membranes with interdigitations, desmosomes, and secretory Golgi complexes, all features found in functioning uterine epithelium in vivo. This model will allow the in vitro investigation of the development of uterine epithelium-specific functions free of the influence of stromal cell factors.
4295805|16,16-Dimethyl PGE
4295874|Cell density is a factor that affects the capacity of Cloudman S91 melanoma cells to respond to melanotropins in monolayer culture. Continuous exposure of melanoma cells to
4296009|Phosphorylation of a light chain subunit of myosin by
4295795|The artificial sweetener saccharin inhibits binding of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to cultured rat pituitary tumor cells (
4295975|A serum-free medium for postembryonic chicken epiphyseal growth plate chondrocytes has been developed from 104 MCDB medium. To enable these fastidious cells to survive, grow, and express normal phenotype, a substantial increase over MCDB 104 in the level of many of the amino acids was required, as well as a change in the buffer system and the addition of SerXtend, a defined, serum-free product containing various growth factors, including fibroblast growth factor. Also required was the provision of cell attachment factors, either by coating culture surfaces with type II collagen, or better, by allowing the freshly released cells to recover for several hours in a medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum before plating. Ths new serum-free medium, which we call USC-HC1, supports growth and replication, the retention of normal polygonal morphology, the expression of significant levels of cellular alkaline phosphatase activity, the production of sulfated proteoglycans, type II collagen, and the formation of alkaline phosphatase-rich matrix vesicles by the chondrocytes. The major advantage of USC-HC1, however, is that it will provide for the first time an opportunity to examine the effects of various defined growth and hormonal factors on the phenotypic expression and differentiation of growth plate chondrocytes, in the absence of the variable (stimulatory and inhibitory) factors present in fetal bovine serum.
4295730|Distribution and organization of the extracellular glycoproteins, fibronectin and laminin, in clonal cultures of chick retinal pigmented epithelial cells have been investigated using indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. Fibronectin is located on the apical and basal cell surfaces and between the cells in the undifferentiated regions of the colony (outer edge and stratified region). It seems to run parallel to intracellular microfilament bundles and to be associated with them across the cell membrane. In the differentiated region of the colony (center), it is located exclusively on the basal cell surface and seems to be primarily associated with the collagen bundles of the basement membrane. The locations suggest that it may be necessary to permit rapid division and movement of the undifferentiated cells in the outer region of the colony, while stabilizing the sheet of differentiated cells in the colony center. In all regions except the outer edge of the colony, laminin is associated with the basal cell surfaces where it forms a meshwork of short, fine strands. The laminin has a totally different staining pattern from the fibronectin and does not seem to be associated with collagen bundles. The location suggests that laminin may be present in the basal lamina and may be involved in adhesion of the cells to the substratum.
4296953| The mitral valve has atrial and ventricular sides, each lined by endocardial cells. The valve stroma contains  smooth muscle actin positive interstitial cells, collagen, glycosaminoglycans, and elastic tissue. To eliminate the effect of endocardium on wound repair in bovine mitral valve organ culture, the endocardium was removed from both sides of the valve. At 6 days, organ cultures of these preparations revealed surface cells on the ventricular side but not on the atrial side. Ventricular surface cells were negative for Factor VIII-related antigen, and positive for  smooth muscle actin. Immuno-peroxidase staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen/cyclin, a marker for cell proliferation, revealed a positive labeling index of (mean  standard deviation) 0.08  0.16% for interstitial cells from the atrial side and 0.14  0.19% for ventricular side interstitial cells in uncultured preparations (not significant), and 0.44  0.69% for atrial side interstitial cells and 2.25  1.64% for ventricular side interstitial cells in the cultured preparations (significant, P < 0.0006). The results suggest that in organ culture, interstitial cells from the ventricular side of the mitral valve respond to a denuding endocardial injury by proliferating and migrating onto the adjacent surface whereas interstitial cells from the atrial side do not. This difference in the response to injury of interstitial cells from the atrial and ventricular sides of the valve may reflect differences in phenotype or may be due to effects of extracellular matrix on interstitial cell behavior. The latter is possible because of differences in the extracellular matrix of the atrial and ventricular sides of the valve. 
4296141|The murine uterine cervix cancer (MUCC) cell line was derived from a chemically induced Kunming mouse uterine cervix cancer (U27) and maintained in culture on solid substrates for over 100 passages. Cultures were morphotypically heterogeneous and heteroploid, with a modal number of chromosomes = 80. Each cell showed at least two abnormal chromosomes. Immunogold-silver staining was positive for keratin, vimentin, and laminin but not for desmin. The population doubling time was 27.8 h with a saturation density of
4296021|Myometrial cells were obtained following a three-step enzymatic digestion of uterine horns from Day 1 pseudopregnant rabbits. Isolated cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), whole or steroid depleted (FBS-DC) at a plating density of
4295991|Embryogenic callus was initiated from radicles of mature embryos removed from imbibed seeds (24 h). Embryogenic and other nonembryogenic types of callus proliferated on a modified half-strength Murashige-Skoog medium (MS) basal medium (BM) supplemented with myo-inositol, casein hydrolysate (CH), L-glutamine (gln) and growth regulators kinetin (KN),
4296053|The impact of an improved culture medium (
4296276|Populations of quail and chicken cells were treated with ethidium bromide, an inhibitor of mitochondrial DNA replication. After long-term exposure to the drug, the cell populations were transferred to ethidium bromide (EtdBr)-free medium, and cloned. Clones HCF7 (quail) and DUS-3 (chicken) were propagated for more than a year, and then characterized. Analysis of total cellular DNA extracted from these cells revealed no characteristic mitochondrial DNA molecule by Southern blot hybridization of HindIII- or Aval-digested total cellular DNA probed with cloned mitochondrial DNA fragments. Reconstruction experiments, where a small number of parental cells was mixed with HCF7 cells and DUS-3 cells before extraction of total cellular DNA, further strengthen the notion that the drug-treated cells are devoid of mitochondrial DNA molecules. The cell populations were found to proliferate at a moderately reduced growth rate as compared to their respective parents, to be auxotrophic for uridine, and to be stably resistant to the growth inhibitory effect of EtdBr and chloramphenicol. At the ultrastructural level, mitochondria were considerably enlarged and there was a severe reduction in the number of cristae within the organelles and loss of cristae orientation. Morphometric analysis revealed a fourfold increase of the mitochondrial profile area along with a twofold decrease of the numerical mitochondrial profiles. Analysis of biochemical parameters indicated that the cells grew with mitochondria devoid of a functional respiratory chain. The activity of the mitochondrial enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase was decreased by 95% and presumably accounted for uridine auxotrophy.
4295829|The most commonly used procedure to harvest cultured cells from petri dishes is to scrape the cells off the plates with a rubber or Teflon policeman. However, the results reported herein demonstrate that this technique, with its associated mechanical trauma, significantly perturbed cell membranes in neuronal-enriched cultures derived from the ventral half of fetal murine spinal cords. This is evidenced by liberation of free fatty acids and diglycerides, partial inhibition of
4295906|Differences between forest trees and other organisms include higher DNA levels, higher levels of heterozygosity per individual, a greater proportion of polymorphic loci, a higher average number of alleles per loci, and generally lower levels of population structuring. Forest management practices are generally less intensive than those commonly applied to domesticated crop plants. Because of this and the long generation time and infrequent harvest schedule, the elements of risk are greater than for other domesticated plant species. Appropriate strategies for implementing in vitro techniques that take these differences into account are discussed.
4296064|A human erythroleukemia cell line, K-562 T1, was adapted to a protein-free chemically defined medium (1); that is, the medium does not contain any proteins such as exogenous hormones, growth factors, serum and serum albumin. The K-562 T1 cells which can proliferate in a protein-free medium are one of the model systems suitably supporting the autocrine hypothesis (2), which claims that cancer cells produce and respond to their own growth factors (3). The K-562 T1 cells were cultured in a protein-free medium at large scale and the growth factors were purified from the conditioned medium. It was found that K-562 T1 cells produce at least two growth factors; one is LGF-I (leukemia-derived growth factor-I) which can stimulate the proliferation of a wide range of human leukemia cell lines and the other is LGF-II (leukemia-derived growth factor-II), which can contribute to the growth of fibroblasts. LGF-I was purified using QAE-Sephadex, Bio Gel P-60 and Mono S FPLC. The purified protein was found to be homogenous by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and NH
4296396|The failure of many cell culture isolates of Mycoplasma hyorhinis to grow on microbiological media has stressed the need for alternate assays to detect these organisms. The use of freshly prepared yeast extract in mycoplasmal media together with incubation in 5%
4296314| A431 cells grew at similar rates in protein-free Coon's modified Ham's F12 medium (PF-C-F12) with and without added bovine calf serum. The cells secreted a heparin-binding growth factor and a type- transforming growth factor, but their growth in PF-C-F12 was not affected by these factors, or by DNA synthesis factor from Rhodamine fibrosarcoma, basic fibroblast growth factor, insulin, human transferrin, bovine serum albumin, and their combinations. Growth of A431 cells in PF-C-F12 was not density dependent and was not affected by either addition of conditioned medium or replacement of conditioned medium by fresh medium. These results indicate that A431 cells have an intracellular mechanism for autonomous growth, and that their growth is not affected by factors that they secrete or by exogenous growth factors. 
4296464| Mammalian ovarian surface epithelial (OSE) cells and peritoneal mesothelial (PM) cells have a common embryologic origin, yet certain morphologic and histochemical characteristics are different in the adult. In this study, a two-step culture method was developed to examine the characteristics of these two cell types in vitro. OSE, PM, and ovarian granulosa (GC) cells were isolated from estrous rabbits and cultured for 6 d in 5% serum-supplemented D-valine medium (to inhibit fibroblast growth), then incubated for a further 2 d in serum-free McCoy's 5A medium. This study showed that rabbit OSE and PM cells in vitro maintained certain in vivo morphologic characteristics; OSE cells exhibited distinct cell borders and abundant microvilli of homogeneous size and shape, whereas PM cells were characterized by obscure cell borders and abundant microvilli of heterogeneous form. GC in vitro exhibited overlapping cell borders and sparse microvilli of homogeneous structure. This study showed for the first time that cultured rabbit OSE and PM cells, but not GC, contain distinct filaments of cytokeratin 18. In addition, rabbit OSE cells and GC, but not PM cells, contained 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. However, only GC contained delta 5-3 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. OSE, PM, and GC maintained their ultrastructural and histochemical characteristics in serum-free medium. These results suggest that rabbit OSE cells in vitro could be distinguished from PM cells by histochemical and ultrastructural differences. Furthermore, because these characteristics were not altered in serum-free medium, the two-step culture method will be valuable in further hormonal studies of these cells in vitro. 
4295927|Cultured microvascular endothelial cells (MEC) have become a valuable model for studies of microvascular physiology and pathology. Most current techniques involve manual removal of undesirable cell types or cloning, require one to several months, and yield high population doubling level cultures derived from a relatively small sample of the original population. We have devised a technique to more rapidly produce larger numbers of MEC. This method provided primary cultures consisting predominantly of MEC within 1 wk. The technique involves selective aspiration of gray matter from the bovine cerebral cortex followed by homogenization, sieving, enzymatic dissociation, and then dense plating (
4296394|Forty lymphoblastoid (lymphoid) lines were established from 42 volunteer blood donors, including healthy individuals and patients with head and neck carcinomas. Each peripheral blood sample was split into two portions, one for the establishment of a lymphoid line and the other for short-term culture, which was used to estimate bleomycin sensitivity by cytogenetic procedures. Twenty lymphoid lines were selected at random to compare bleomycin sensitivity with data obtained from short-term lymphocyte cultures. In each set, bleomycin sensitivity of lymphoid cells was similar to that of the lymphocytes. The lymphoid lines, which can be propagated for an unlimited supply of relatively homogeneous cellular material, will be useful for a variety of future investigations.
20171534| Salivary epithelial functions are regulated by the autonomic nervous system. In this regard, we have been studying the morphology and neuroreceptor composition of A253, an immortal cell line isolated from a human submandibular carcinoma (Giard et al., JNCI, 51:1417-1421, 1973). Phase contrast and electron microscopic observations indicate that A253 cells are of epithelial origin. Physiologically, A253 cells possess -adrenergic, but not -adrenergic or muscarinic-cholinergic receptors. The -adrenergic receptors (BARs) are composed primarily of a single class of high affinity, -subtype receptors as judged by [H]dihydroalprenolol antagonist binding studies. The BARs are functional inasmuch as isoproterenol stimulation increases both intracellular cAMP content and [H]mannose incorporation into endogeneous glycoproteins. Differences in ultrastructure and neuroreceptor composition between A253 and other immortal salivary tumor cell lines are discussed. 
4295902|To understand the earliest phases of epidermal cell spreading we have sought a defined in vitro system. We studied the divalent cation dependence of guinea pig epidermal cell spreading in media containing varying concentrations of cations. No spreading occurred in calcium-magnesium-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (CMF-DME) in the presence of cation-free fetal bovine serum; however, significant spreading occurred if the medium was supplemented with Mg
4295734|A procedure is described for large-scale isolation of micromeres from 16-cell stage sea urchin embryos. One to two grams of >99% pure, viable micromeres (
4296979|We studied the polarized secretion of tissue-type plasminogen activator in porcine thyroid cells cultured as a monolayer on porous bottom chambers. The presence of tissue-type plasminogen activator was detected by zymographic analysis on two independent media that were in contact either with the apical surface or with the basolateral membrane. The amount of tissue-type plasminogen activator was determined in both media by ELISA and enzyme assay. Measurable tissue-type plasminogen activator activity was found in the basal but not in the apical medium. However, on zymogram, a lytic zone corresponding to tissue-type plasminogen activator was visible in both media. In addition, a lytic band at 130 kDa suggested presence of a complex formed by tissue-type plasminogen activator and an inhibitor. Preferential basolateral tissue-type plasminogen activator antigen secretion (70%) has been observed, showing the possible relation between tissue-type plasminogen activator and extracellular matrix components. Neither tissue-type plasminogen activator level nor polarized secretion seemed to be regulated by thyrotropin (0.1 mU/ml).
4296869| Leupeptin, a thiol- and serine-proteinase inhibitor of low molecular weight, quickly enters viable cells. This property has been used to protect cells during thawing against intracellular proteolytic activities released by injured lysosomes. The bone marrow nucleated cells were frozen without rate-controlled freezing devices. Concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 1 M of leupeptin allow to recover 87% of the most immature multipotent bone marrow progenitors which can develop in vitro into large multilineage colonies, instead of 58% recovery without leupeptin. The protective effect of leupeptin is particularly useful to freeze cells difficult to cryopreserve or when freezing-control equipments are not available. 
4295768|A method is described for the attachment to and monolayer culture of adult rat hepatocytes on collagen-coated or fibronectin-coated microbeads or both in a chemically defined serum-free medium. Protein synthesis measured by the incorporation of
4295773|The addition of N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES) to RPMI 1640 medium markedly increases the production of cytotoxic products during exposure of the medium to visible light. The cytotoxicity has been analyzed by measuring uptake of [
4296755|We have determined the origin of the extra chromosomal material in the karyotypes of two spontaneously-occurring long-lived human keratinocyte lines, HKC-N2 and HKC-N6. In each case the extra material was derived from the chromosome on which it was located. Possible relationships between the triplication of chromosomal material and the overcoming of cell senescence are discussed.
4296150|Cellular transglutaminase (TGase) was demonstrated as an intracellular enzyme by immunofluorescence in WI-38 cells. Following cell membrane perturbation by Triton X-100 treatment, TGase was bound to the extracellular matrix and was found to coexist with fibronectin as visualized by immunofluorescence microscopy. The binding of TGase to the cell matrix was blocked by anti-fibronectin antibody. Exogenous sources of soluble TGase were transferred to the extracellular matrix of an untreated or methanol fixed cell. The experimental data indicated that "particulate bound" TGase is a consequence of soluble TGase binding to the extracellular matrix following cell rupture.
4296776|The effects of different substrata and
4295986|Transitional cell carcinoma from 20 patients and two human cell lines were maintained in short-term tissue culture. Each was studied ultrastructurally before and after incubaton with cisplatinum, adriamycin, or mitomycin C. Sequential ultrastructural changes were noted and were found to be specific for each agent tested. Ultrastructural changes in the nucleoli were produced by exposure to cisplatinum or mitomycin C; alterations in the heterochromatin of the nuclei were characteristic of treatment with adriamycin. The changes in the nucleoli seen with cisplatinum have not been described previously and support an alkylating property as a mechanism of action. Intravesical chemotherapeutic agents are now commonly used in clinical treatments. The morphological changes produced by these agents are specific and may be seen in the clinical setting.
20171401|Logarithmic proliferation rate (Days 1 to 6) of gingival fibroblasts derived from 15 pairs of monozygotic (MZ) and 9 pairs of dizygotic (DZ) human twins was compared under optimal and suboptimal growth conditions. Cell proliferation rates exhibited considerable variability among strains. For Caucasian donors (13 MZ, 6 DZ pairs) DZ twins demonstrated significantly greater (P &lt; 0.01) within-pair variance in cell proliferation rate compared to MZ twins when evaluated under optimal growth conditions. Heritability analysis indicated strong genetic control of proliferation rate of human gingival fibroblasts (HGF) under optimal growth conditions (1.0  0.67), whereas proliferation rate of HGF under suboptimal growth conditions revealed less genetic control (0.42  0.61). These findings emphasize the importance of carefully matching control and test HGF in assays dependent on cellular proliferation.
4296569|Normal human colon mucosa cells and cells obtained from histologically normal tissues near that cancer were fused with human colon cancer cells. Resultant hybrid populations of normal and malignant cell fusions behaved as nonmalignant cells in culture, were unable to grow in soft agar, did not express tumor-associated antigens, and were nontumorigenic in nude mice. Autofusion of the cancer cell population led to a phenotype intermediate between normal and malignant cells. That is, the cultures had a much lower plating efficiency in soft agar, and the tumors had a longer latency and slower growth rate in nude mice. This is the first cell culture system to demonstrate that normal epithelial cells can suppress malignancy of their autologous cancer cells, and is a prelude to more extensive studies of genetic events involved in malignant conversion of human colonic epithelium.
4296297|Although cultured vascular smooth muscle cells have been extensively characterized and investigated, there are very few studies of cultured intestinal smooth muscle cells. The aim of this study was to culture colonic smooth muscle (CSM) cells from the rabbit colon. Freshly isolated CSM cells from the circular muscle layer of the distal colon were prepared by collagenase digestion. In primary culture, CSM cells attached to the culture vessels by 48 to 72 h, proliferated by 3 to 7 d, and reached confluency by 14 to 17 d with a "hill-and-valley" pattern. Spontaneous contractions were not observed at any time at 21 or 37 C. Confluent primary cultures were greater than 95% CSM cells, as identified by intensely positive immunofluorescent staining to smooth muscle actin-specific CGA7 and muscle-specific HHF-35 monoclonal antibodies. Transmission electron microscopy of freshly isolated and proliferating CSM cells revealed ultrastructural features consistent with smooth muscle cells. We successfully cultured CSM cells of the rabbit from freshly isolated cells and validated these CSM cells by electron microscopy and immunocytochemical staining. These highly pure primary cultures may be used to investigate numerous aspects of CSM cell metabolism and physiology.
4295982|Epithelial cells from nasopharyngeal carcinoma biopsies were cultured with a high percentage of success and periods of growth much longer than those previously reported. Such cultured nasopharyngeal epithelial cells, if normal, are useful for experiments with Epstein-Barr virus in relation to nasopharyngeal carcinoma, and if the epithelial cells are Epstein-Barr virus associated tumor cells, they will be most useful for investigation into the etiology of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
4296417|Heparin-binding (fibroblast) growth factors (HBGF) are mitogens for both human aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells. Under similar conditions, both vascular cells display similar numbers of specific HBGF binding sites with similar apparent affinity for HBGF. The monokines, interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor, inhibit endothelial cell growth and stimulate smooth muscle cell growth. The opposite mitogenic effects correlate with reduction and increase in HBGF receptor number displayed by endothelial and smooth muscle cells, respectively. These results suggest that the two monokines may depress endothelial cell regeneration and augment smooth muscle cell hyperplasia by differential modulation of the HBGF receptor in the two vascular cell types.
4295967|Thymic stromal cells were cultured in conditions which select for epithelial cells. These were then transformed in vitro by contact with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine and cloned at limit dilution. One of the clones was characterized as being of medullary origin on the basis of its reactivity with a battery of antibodies previously shown to distinguish cortical from medullary thymic epithelial cells. The importance of this clone lies in the potential it offers to delineate how various T cell subpopulations acquire their distinct markers and function within the thymus.
4295916|A431 malignant keratinocytes, although derived from a muco-cutaneous carcinoma of the vulva, fail to achieve terminal epidermal differentiation in culture as shown by their inability to form cornified envelopes. Even after culture in a serum-free medium (MCDB 153) containing no retinoic acid and a high (
4296517|Isolation and culture techniques for hepatocytes from whole livers of the cynomolgus monkey, Macaca fascicularis, are described. Hepatocytes were isolated by two-step perfusion of livers, using collagenase with hyaluronidase; fructose and trypsin inhibitor were included to reduce cell loss. Yields from a single liver average
4296779| Primary cultures of mouse colonic epithelial cells have been obtained that are typically epithelial by morphology and moreover express keratins and endogenous -galactosidase; this latter activity was also demonstrated in the epithelial lining of the mouse colonic mucosa. The proliferative response of the primary colonic epithelial cells to epidermal growth factor, insulin, and the bile acid, deoxycholic acid, has been studied. Using primary cultures maintained at suboptimal growth conditions, which yielded 96 to 100% quiescent cells, epidermal growth factor, insulin, and the bile acid, deoxycholic acid, at concentrations at which it normally occurs in the aqueous phase of human feces, stimulated proliferation as measured by autoradiography. Exposure of the cells to combinations of these factors resulted in additive increases in growth. In conclusion, cells from the normal mouse colon can now be cultured while retaining at least two normal marker functions and moreover respond to some known mitogens and the potential tumor promoter deoxycholic acid. The cells can also be subcultivated while maintaining their epithelial morphology and marker functions for at least 3 passages. 
4295839|This study examined whether nonconfluent endothelial cell cultures reacted differently than confluent ones toward thrombin-stimulated platelets or a heparinized salt solution. The adherence to the endothelial cell cultures of
4296994|To establish the significance of the addition of trypsin inhibitors to pancreatic acinar cells maintained in vitro, cells were cultured in the presence or absence of soybean trypsin inhibitor. Both cultures exhibited similar growth pattern, ultrastructural appearance, as well as secretory properties. Moreover, there was no evidence of trypsinogen activation in the culture medium. Using the immunocytochemical approach, pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor antigenic sites were revealed with specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. The results obtained demonstrated that this trypsin inhibitor is in fact a typical pancreatic secretory protein being processed through the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi-granule secretory pathway of the acinar cells in rat and human tissues. While the polyclonal antibody yield labelings of increasing intensities along the secretory pathway, the monoclonal one probably due to the molecular nature of its specific antigenic determinant, gave higher labelings in the endoplasmic reticulum. In conclusion the present study has shown that pancreatic acinar cells secrete a specific pancreatic trypsin inhibitor which most probably is involved in the mechanism to prevent trypsinogen activation.
4295924|Commonly used enzymic methods for the isolation of rat Sertoli cells yield populations containing ~15% germ cells. Although the germ cells become eliminated after several media changes, they could interfere with the use of Sertoli cells for critical studies during the first several days of culture. A brief treatment of Sertoli cell monolayer cultures with 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4) was found to eliminate most of the residual contaminating germ cells. The duration of this treatment varied from 1.0 to 10 min, depending on cell denisty in the culture, the degree of germ cell contamination, and the age of animals used for Sertoli cell isolation. In a study of 95% pure, 7-d Sertoli cell cultures, the hypotonic treatment did not alter the DNA or RNA content per dish or the incorporation of
20171389|Growth and development of cotton fibers in a developmental mutant, Ligon-lintless, and its near isogenic wild type, Texas Marker-1, were compared in ovule and cell suspension cultures. In both organ and cell cultures the pattern of growth of fiber cells from the two genotypes mimicked the pattern of in vivo growth. The timing of fiber cell initiation soon after anthesis in Ligon-lintless suggests that the fiber cells on this mutant are analogous to the commercially important lint fibers. Length distributions of elongated cells from cell suspension culture of Ligon-lintless and Texas Marker-1 indicate that the length attained in culture is affected by the genotype of the explant tissue.
4296587| Recent studies suggest that the proliferation and expression of HLA-DR molecules in endometrial epithelium may be regulated by systemic steroids and local cytokines. To test the interacting influences of cytokines and steroids on the expression of HLA-DR and proliferation of epithelial cells, an endometrial cell model is required that is sensitive to both signals. In this study, we characterize cells of carcinoma cell lines of endometrial lineage for their responsiveness to cytokines and steroids. Independently developed for its response to steroid hormones from a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of human endometrium, EnCal0lAE cell line is further cloned for the expression of progesterone receptor. Immunohistochemical localization using monoclonal antibodies demonstrates that both EnCa101AE cell line and cloned ECC1 cells are purely epithelial, as evidenced by the expression of cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen, express estrogen receptors, and concomitantly exhibit IFN-gamma receptor. Experiments using radioiodinated IL-1 reveal that these cell lines also possess high affinity receptors for IL-1. As indicated by the induction of HLA-DR molecules, and alterations in morphologic characteristics, these cell lines are sensitive to both IFN-gamma and IL-1 action. The class II molecules (HLA-DR, HLA-DP, and HLA-DQ) are differentially induced by IFN-gamma treatment in carcinoma cell lines, with HLA-DR being the prevailing induced molecule. IFN-gamma inhibits and estradiol-17 promotes growth of ECC1 cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. These findings indicate that the interacting effect(s) of the cytokines and steroid hormones on endometrial epithelium may be studied in these unique steroid- and cytokine-sensitive epithelial cell lines. 
4296007|Active fibrous septa are a common feature in liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. Their etiology and formation were studied using cultures of tissue fragments or cells included in collagen gels. Liver fragments obtained from patients with cirrhosis or severe schistosomal fibrosis were able to reorganize the gel and to form discrete, interconnecting fibrous septa composed of parallel arrays of collagen, subsequently colonized by migrating connective tissue cells. The same was obtained in cultures of fibrogranulomatous lesions isolated from schistosome-infected mice livers. However, fragments of normal human and murine liver tissue did not show the capacity to form fibrous septa. Septa formation was also obtained in cultures of cell spheroids formed by liver connective tissue cells isolated from human fibrotic or cirrhotic liver tissues, but not with spheroids of normal skin fibroblasts or smooth muscle cells. This experimental model may represent the fibrous septa formation in vivo, depending on the activity of liver connective tissue cells. The ability of tissue fragments or cell spheroids to form septa in collagen gels might reflect the degree of fibrosis present in the liver tissue in vivo.
4296547|A new tumor cell line has been established from a malignant pleural effusion in a 28-yr-old female patient with a primary alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma of the left buttock. The in vitro and in vivo growth characteristics, morphologic features, abnormal karyotype, and immunohistochemical staining pattern indicate that this cell line is comprised of primitive malignant mesenchymal cells derived from a human rhabdomyosarcoma. Receptor studies done on tumors grown in male athymic mice revealed a single class of high affinity saturable cytoplasmic estrogen receptor (Bmax 2.6 fm/mg cytosol protein, Kd 0.34 nM). Likewise, sucrose density gradient analysis demonstrated specific low-capacity, high-affinity estradiol binding predominately in the 8S region. Cell growth in monolayer culture and on soft agar in the presence of estradiol was inhibited by pharmacologic concentrations of estradiol in a dose-responsive manner compared with control. We describe a newly characterized malignant mesenchymal cell line derived from an alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma that is inhibited by pharmacologie doses of estradiol in vitro. These findings suggest further investigation into the mechanism(s) of this estrogen-induced inhibition in rhabdomyosarcomas.
4295807|Expression of the anchorage-independent transformed phenotype in BHK 21/13 cells generally behaves as a recessive trait. When chemically induced and spontaneously arising transformants are fused to the non transformed parent line, transformation is initially suppressed, reappearing after extended growth of the hybrids. In this paper, complementation for the expression of anchorage independence was sought among a large group of such transformants, all independently derived from BHK 21/13 cells. Tumorigenicity studies on selected hybrids and parental lines indicated that the in vitro trait of anchorage independence is an accurate indicator of in vivo neoplasia for these cells. Seventeen of the 18 clones tested did not complement one or more of three tester strains. This result indicates that anchorage independence arose in these clones as a result of lesions in the same genetic function and suggests that the final step in the progressive changes of carcinogenesis may frequently be restricted to lesions at a single locus.
4296056| Some effects of culturing adult rat hepatocytes on each of four different substrates-laminin (LN), collagen type I (C-I), collagen type IV (C-IV), and fibronectin (FN)-have been investigated under defined conditions. No differential effect on the attachment of the cells to the various substrates was noted; however, the spreading of hepatocytes shortly after initial plating was most strikingly enhanced by FN, whereas LN exhibited little or no such enhancement. The two collagen substrates enhanced the spreading of hepatocytes more than did LN, but less than FN. The different substrates had no differential effect on the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase by dexamethasone and glucagon for at least the first 10 d in culture. The longevity of the hepatocytes was not changed significantly by any of the substrates, at least through the 14th d of culture. During the culture periods the hepatocytes at high cell density were maintained as confluent monolayers, regardless of the substrate on which they had been cultured. After 14 d of culture, -glutamyltranspeptidase activity was highest in cells cultured on C-IV, and lowest in those on FN. DNA synthesis in cultured hepatocytes at a low cell density was highest in cells cultured on FN, with decreasing levels of this parameter in cells cultured on C-IV, C-I, and LN, respectively. These results demonstrate that specific components of the extracellular matrix modulate both differentiated functions and the replication of hepatocytes cultured in serum-free medium. 
4295915|Guinea pig glomeruli were grown for 22 d in a serum-free medium composed of Waymouth's MB 752/1 supplemented with sodium pyruvate, nonessential amino acids, and antibiotics (the basic medium). Intracellular cellular activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD; both copper-zinc [Cu,Zn] and manganese [Mn] forms) and catalase, and intracellular active oxygen metabolites (hydrogen peroxide [H
4296373|A certain kind of cell in the pituitary gland exhibited immunoreactive keratin and dome formations in vitro. We obtained epithelial cells, which were able to subculture, from the outgrowth of anterior pituitary organ cultures. These cells lacked hormone secretory granules and exhibited immunoreactive keratin. Furthermore, they produced dome formations or cystic structures in monolayer culture and under three-dimensional culture condition using type I collagen gel. Dome formation was stimulated by dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP,
4295724|The distribution of laminin was investigated by immunocytochemistry in the rat anterior pituitary in vivo and in primary culture. It was localized by immunofluorescence and by immunoperoxidase in the basement membranes of the pituitary in vivo. In addition it was also found inside glandular cells both in vivo and in culture. The number of immunoreactive cells greatly varied depending on the technical approach used. It was always higher in primary cultures than in vivo. At the electron microscope level, a staining was observed on secretory granules, on rough endoplasmic reticulum cisternae as well as on the membrane of some Golgi saccules and vesicles. Such a localization, at the level of subcellular sites involved in the secretory process, suggests that these cells are able to synthesize and to export in vivo as well as in vitro this component of their basement membranes.
4296386| 2-Deoxy-D-glucose (2-DOG) uptake was tested in human fibroblast cultures in the presence and absence of vitamin E. Addition of 10 g/ml vitamin E to the culture medium significantly reduced this uptake for 2-DOG concentrations of 0.005 to 10 mmol/liter (P  0.01). The decrease of 2-DOG uptake was inversely proportional to the rise in 2-DOG concentration (P  0.01). The presence of vitamin E reduced by 71% the average cellular level of lipid peroxides (expressed as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances) and caused a small but significant decrease in the cholesterol concentration (P  0.01). These last results might explain the decrease in 2-DOG uptake observed in the presence of vitamin E. 
4296956|Derivatized dextrans exert a stimulatory effect on the in vitro growth of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HU-VEC). Measurements of growth were monitored by [
4295935|The human tumor-derived cell line HeLa S3 and nuclear and mitochondrial gene mutants derived from it are resistant to the aminoglycoside antibiotic, paromomycin (PAR). Other carcinoma-derived cells, SV40-transformed cells, and four human diploid fibroblast cell lines are all sensitive to PAR. Sensitivity is dependent on cell density, and at cell numbers greater than
4296543|Monolayers of 2 different populations of uterine cells and of fetal fibroblasts were evaluated for the support of rat embryo development in vitro. Compared to controls, cultures performed in Earle's buffered saline solution (EBSS) alone, the cleavage rate of 2-cell embryos to the 4-cell stage was significantly increased when the embryos were cocultured for 24 h with mixed uterine stromal and myometrial cells (70.7 vs. 56.0%; P < 0.01). Coculture of 2-cell embryos with either uterine epithelial-stromal or stromal-myometrial cells in medium TC 199 (M199) for 24 h significantly increased the cleavage rate to the 4-cell stage compared to controls in the same medium (respectively, 78.3 and 77.6 vs. 49.9%; P < 0.01). The development was not improved when fibroblasts were used as feeder cells. After 48 h, the proportion of 4-cell embryos showing cellular fragmentation was significantly decreased in the presence of either epithelial-stromal or stromal-myometrial cells in M199 compared to controls (respectively, 18.4 and 20.0 vs. 43.8%; P < 0.01). Coculture in EBSS or with fibroblasts failed to prevent embryo degeneration. In one coculture with stromal-epithelial cells in M199, 6/11 embryos proceeded beyond the 4-cell stage, two of them reaching the 8-cell stage. No embryo developed beyond that stage in our study. Although considerable efforts remain necessary to achieve further growth, these results suggest that coculture offers promise as a means of supporting the in vitro development of rat embryos.
4295932|A newly developed, serum-free medium (NYSF-404) selects for antibody-producing hybridomas after fusion of antigen-sensitized mouse spleen cells with myeloma cell lines P3-X63-Ag8-U1 (P3-U1), P3-X63-Ag8-6.5.3 (Ag8.653), or P3-NSI/1-Ag4-1 (NS-1). Without the need for hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine (HAT) selection of hybrid cells, frequency of hybridoma formation in medium NYSF-404 is higher (twice) than that in serum- and HAT-containing medium. Colonies developed upon limiting dilution in the presence of the mortal parent myeloma cells in medium NYSF-404 and pure culture of antibody-secreting cells could be subsequently established. The results suggest that fusions can be done in serum-free medium and that the clonal growth of hybridomas is dependent on factors produced by parent myeloma cells under serum-free culture conditions. Such factors seem deficient in serum- and HAT-containing medium or are masked by serum.
4295727|Four synthetic peptides related in amino acid sequence to the area of the fibronectin molecule thought to be involved in cell binding were tested for the ability to inhibit cell spreading promoted by several different attachment factors. Effects of the peptides were assayed on a number of cell types. For all cell types tested, peptides effective at inhibiting fibronectin-promoted cell spreading were found also to inhibit cell spreading promoted by human serum spreading factor (SF). These peptides were also capable of inhibiting to a lesser extent cell spreading promoted by other attachment factors, although this phenomenon was dependent on the cell type examined.
4295962|Attempts were made to select for trophoblast cells in cultures of mixed cell populations derived from preterm (7 to 12 wk) or term human placentas. Epidermal growth factor added to cultures on solid or porous supports caused proliferation of epithelial-type cells to give a confluent monolayer but did not increase the expression of differentiated function. The presence or absence of placental basement membrane collagen as substrate made little apparent difference; however a porous basement membrane collagen support led to increased differentiated function. Initial production of human chorionic gonadotrophin was increased and after 4 wk in culture a substantial proportion of the cells exhibited alkaline phosphatase activity. Epidermal growth factor and a substrate of placental basement membrane collagen on a porous support favorably influence the growth and differentiation of human trophoblast cells in culture.
4295948| We have examined the MGH-U1 human bladder carcinoma cell line and 12 primary bladder carcinoma biopsies for their ability to form spheroids in suspension culture and in multiwell dishes. MGH-U1 cells formed tightly packed spheroids with a necrotic center and viable rim whereas three sublines formed loose aggregates only. Spheroids formed from as few as 100 MGH-U1 cells placed into multiwells. MGH-U1 cells derived from spheroids formed new spheroids more rapidly and consistently than cells derived from monolayer culture. Spheroid diameter increased at a rapid rate of ~100 n/d in multiwell dishes, and necrosis occurred only in spheroids of diameter >1 mm. Spheroids placed in spinner culture at a higher concentration (~1.5 spheroids/ml) grew more slowly and developed necrosis at smaller diameters. The width of the viable rim of spheroids grown in spinner culture was maintained at ~190 m over a wide range of spheroid diameters (400 to 1000 m). Sequential trypsinization of spheroids, which stripped layers of cells from the spheroids, demonstrated no difference in the plating efficiency of cells derived from varying depths into the spheroid. Only one of the 12 primary bladder biopsy specimens demonstrated an ability to form spheroids. This biopsy, designated HB-10, formed spheroids that grew linearly over 40 d, formed colonies in methylcellulose culture and grew as xenografts in immune-deprived mice. These studies characterize the MGH-U1 spheroids that are useful in vitro models to study the effects of various treatments for solid tumors and demonstrate the limited capacity of cells from primary human bladder biopsies to form spheroids. 
4296629|Free radical damage has the potential to significantly affect the behavior of cells in culture. In this study the effects of antioxidants (superoxide dismutase, catalase, and vitamin E) and lowered oxygen tension (1% oxygen) on primary culture of rat mammary epithelial cells were examined. Rat mammary epithelial cells were dissociated in collagenase with or without the addition of antioxidants and low oxygen tension, then cultured for 10 d in rat-tail collagen gel matrix and fed with Dulbecco's modified Eagle'sF12 medium supplemented with various hormones and growth factors. Growth potential of the mammary cells was enhanced when antioxidants and low oxygen tension were used, alone or in combination, during the cell dissociation period. Using antioxidants and low oxygen tension during the culture period failed to improve growth potential regardless whether cells were dissociated in standard conditions or with antioxidants and low oxygen tension. The use of antioxidants and low oxygen tension during the cell dissociation period also reduced the degree of keratinization of the cells after 10 d of culture. Using antioxidants and low oxygen tension during the cell culture period did not further reduce keratinization if antioxidants and low oxygen tension were used during the dissociation period, but were effective in reducing keratinization if cells were dissociated in standard condition. In this system, antioxidants and low oxygen tension reduced lipid peroxidation during the cell dissociation period. An iron chelator, desferal, can also reduce lipid peroxidation and enhance growth when used during cell dissociation, suggesting the enhanced growth potential by the addition of antioxidants and low oxygen to be due to the reduction of lipid peroxidation.
4296782|Doubling time and generation time represent two parameters by which the proliferation of cultured mammalian cells can be monitored. In this study we report the characterization of CHEF 18 Chinese hamster cell line during the progression toward tumorigenicity by analysis of doubling time and generation time. The two parameters reveal that the proliferation was initially different, indicating the presence of a proliferative heterogeneity among the cycling cells. The progressive reduction up to the disappearance of this discrepancy suggests that a modification of the length of some phases of the cell cycle may have occurred during the progression toward tumorigenicity. However, the hypothesis that the shortening of doubling time might be due to a continuous coming out of cells from the cell cycle rather than to a shortening of the cell cycle is presented.
4296734|We have successfully maintained and biochemically characterized differentiated rat parotid acinar cells cultured for long periods (6 mo.). The cells were cultured on a reconstituted basement membrane matrix in a medium containing a variety of agents that promote cellular proliferation and differentiation. The cultured cells retain the characteristics of the parental parotid acinar cells. They exhibit both secretory granules and abundant cellular organelles required for protein synthesis and secretion. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry demonstrate high levels of proline-rich protein mRNA and protein, and lower levels of amylase mRNA and protein, in their cytoplasm. These findings suggest that rat parotid acinar cells can be maintained in a differentiated state in vitro for long periods, and can serve as a useful model system for studying the regulation of exocrine secretory processes.
4295817|In humans, the skin is a particularly sensitive target for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and certain halogenated analogs. Reported lesions include a thickening of the epidermis (acanthosis), hyperkeratosis, and squamous metaplasia of the epithelial lining of the sebaceous glands. In this report we describe ongoing studies on the actions of TCDD on cultured human epidermal cells. This system has been established as an in vitro model for interfollicular epidermal hyperkeratinization. Treatment of newly confluent cultures with TCDD results in enhanced differentiation as judged by histologic examination of the cultures, a decrease in the number of basal proliferating cells, and an increase in the number of envelope competent (differentiating) cells and terminally differentiated cells with highly cross-linked cornified envelopes. Changes in the differentiation program are preceded by a decrease in epidermal growth factor (EGF) binding. The concentration dependence and stereospecificity for these responses suggest the involvement of the Ah receptor. We propose that TCDD modulates normal patterns of epidermal differentiation through direct actions on proliferating basal cells, modulating the responsiveness of these cells to growth factors such as EGF.
4295946|A cell line (IPLB-TpE1) was established from embryos of the hymenopteran parasitoid, Trichogramma pretiosum Riley. Cultures contain a mixture of attached, elongate spindle-shaped cells and large aggregates of suspended cells. Chromosomes of the cells were typical of Trichogramma species and isozyme characterization showed patterns similar to T. pretiosum adults, but distinctly different from Heliothis zea, the lepidopteran host from which parasite eggs were obtained. The cells are capable of growth over a wide range of osmotic pressures with equal growth between 350 and 600 mOSM/kg. Optimal growth was obtained with a pH of 6.5. Doubling time at the 40th passage was 72 h and cultures are currently subcultured at weekly intervals.
4296499|Two new lines of human endometrial carcinoma (HEC) cells, one from an adenocarcinoma and one from a highly metastatic serous papillary carcinoma, were established in culture. Structural and morphologic properties of these cells at early passage were compared with those of cultured normal human endometrial epithelial (NHEE) cells. For these studies, cells were grown on a conventional plastic surface or on an extracellular matrix substrate (Matrigel), and examined by transmission electron microscopy and immunofluorescent light microscopy. The HEC cells appeared morphologically similar on plastic and Matrigel, whereas the NHEE cells showed significantly greater epithelial morphologic differentiation on Matrigel than on plastic. On extracellular matrix, the morphologic differences observed between HEC cells and NHEE cells were primarily of an architectural nature, which may be in part explained by differences between NHEE and HEC cells in the arrangement of actin microfilaments and cytokeratin intermediate filaments. Furthermore, HEC cells displayed extensive networks of vimentin intermediate filaments, which were absent from the NHEE cells. These observations support the hypothesis that architectural deregulation is a prominent feature of endometrial carcinoma, and that cytoskeletal alterations may uncouple HEC cell ultrastructural morphology from the influence of extracellular matrix.
4296766|Cytochrome P-450 dependent hydroxylation of testosterone was measured in 7-day-old cultures of primary rat liver parenchymal cells. Determinations were carried out in monocultures of parenchymal cells and co-cultures of parenchymal cells with rat liver nonparenchymal epithelial cells, or mouse embryo fibroblasts. In the monoculture system, testosterone metabolism was drastically reduced and hardly measurable after 7 days in culture. In the co-culture systems, individual P-450 isoenzymes were stabilized on different levels. P-450s p and presumably c were well preserved, P-450 a was reduced but clearly measurable, P-450 h was totally lost whereas P-450s b and e were not measurable after 7 days (the activities of these isoenzymes however were already low in freshly isolated parenchymal cells). The results were independent of the cell line used for co-cultivation and of the method of parenchymal cell isolation, that is whether collagenase or EDTA was used as the agent for dissociating the cells from the liver. The results showed that the co-cultivation of liver parenchymal cells with other nonparenchymal cells significantly improved the differentiated status of the former. In this cell culture system however, not every parameter was equally well stabilized.
4296512|A protein-free medium, termed ABC, has been developed which essentially eliminates the need for serum proteins. ABC supports the long-term growth of murine hybridomas as well as other transformed cells of the immune system. The requirement of hybridoma growth for transferrin has been met by substituting the soluble organo-iron compound, sodium nitroprusside. Substantial improvement in the growth of hybridomas was afforded by the inclusion of 18 trace elements complexed to disodium ethylene diaminetetraacetate (EDTA). The medium was further improved by the inclusion of components not found in Ham's F12 medium or by raising the concentrations of existing low molecular weight components. Murine hybridomas can be cultured routinely in this protein-free medium in an anchorage-independent manner with doubling times generally under 24 h. Visualized on electrophoretic gels, levels of monoclonal antibody taken from those cultures often exceeded 80% of the total protein. The medium was also able to support the growth of HuT 78 and H9 cells as well as certain other transformed cells of the immune system. In addition, normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes, activated with phytohemagglutinin and cultured with 50 U/ml recombinant interleukin 2, could be grown for 2 wk with a 50-fold expansion over input cell number.
4296340|Dissociated fetal rat brain cells (Day 14.5 of gestation) reaggregated into small cell clusters and formed large aggregates in a medium supplemented with serum or dialyzed serum in an aggregating culture. In contrast, only small aggregates were produced in a serum-free medium. The present results indicated that albumin, fetuin, transferrin, and
4295715|Pancreatic islets of Langerhans of the Syrian hamster were maintained in culture for as long as 43 wk. Islets were prepared by collagenase/hyaluronidase digestion of minced pancreas. The islets quickly attached to the plastic culture flasks and lost their spherical form as they flattened out to form circular monolayers. Few fibroblastoid cells were observed. As outward migration continued, the islets became vacuolated with the ultimate formation of monolayer rings. Throughout the culture period the beta cells continued to synthesize and secrete insulin. Furthermore, the cells maintained a responsiveness to glucose stimulation with increased rates of hormone secretion in the presence of elevated concentrations of the sugar. These studies demonstrate the suitability of Syrian hamster islets for studies involving long-term culture.
4296862|Continuous exposure of cells to cycloheximide (CHM) terminates in cell death. This may result from CHM's inhibition of protein synthesis. In the present study we investigated the effect of serum and insulin on cell death induced by CHM in the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, and correlated this effect to the inhibition of protein synthesis. Cell death was evaluated by measuring either dead cells by the trypan blue dye exclusion test or by the release of lactic dehydrogenase into the culture medium. CHM (0.1 to
20171591|We investigated the effects of human placental scatter factor (hSF), mouse scatter factor (mSF) and recombinant human hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) on motility and morphology of individual Madin-Darby canine kidney cells using a computerized cell tracking system. All three factors increased the velocity of individual cells and the ratio of moving to stationary cells. Similarly, all three factors caused changes in morphologic features of cells, leading to increased area, flatness, and polarity. Increases in area and flatness but not polarity were slightly greater with HGF than with hSF or mSF. These results suggest that SFs and HGF have similar effects on motility and morphology of isolated epithelial cells.
4296999|Conventional culture systems for hepatocytes generally involve cells cultured as flat, monolayer cells, with limited cell-cell contact, in a static pool of medium, unlike the liver in vivo where the parenchymal cells are cuboidal, with extensive cell-cell contact, and are continuously perfused with blood. We report here a novel bioreactor system for the culturing of primary hepatocytes with cuboidal cell shape, extensive cell-cell contact, and perfusing medium. The hepatocytes were inoculated into the bioreactor and allowed to recirculate at a rate optimal for them to collide and form aggregates. These newly-formed aggregates were subsequently entrapped in a packed bed of glass beads. The bioreactor was perfused with oxygenated nutrient medium, with controlled oxygen tension, pH, and medium perfusion rate. The hepatocytes were viable for up to the longest time point studied of 15 days in culture based on urea synthesis, albumin synthesis and cell morphology. Light microscopy studies of hepatocytes cultured for 15 days in the bioreactor showed interconnecting three-dimensional structures resembling the hepatic cell plate in the liver organ. Electron microscopy studies on the same cells revealed ultrastructure similar to the hepatocytes in vivo, including the presence of plentiful mitochondria, rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, glycogen granules, peroxisomes, and desmosomes. We believe that our hepatocyte bioreactor is a major improvement over conventional culture systems, with important industrial applications including toxicology, drug metabolism, and protein/peptide synthesis. The hepatocyte bioreactor concept may also be used as the basis for the development of a bioartificial liver to provide extracorporeal hepatic support to patients with hepatic failure.
4296165|In an attempt to understand events involved in the cellular regulation of in vitro plant organogenesis, experiments were performed in which tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) callus was transferred at different days in culture from a shoot-forming medium to a non-shoot-forming medium and vice versa. The transfers were made at key histologic stages of the shoot-forming process and known biochemical and biophysical correlates were examined. The changes in starch accumulation and disappearance supported the previously assigned functions, and could be correlated with the histologic changes that occurred in the callus after transfer at the different culture times. In contrast, the changes in respiration could not be correlated with these events. The changes in osmotic and turgor potentials after transfer showed that osmotic adjustment preceded both shoot initiation and development. This suggests that osmotic adjustment might play an important role in in vitro organogenesis.
4296272|Cell cultures derived from young rat epiphyseal cartilage were grown for approximately 2 wk in
4295965| The MJY-alpha epithelial-like mammary tumor cell line was adapted for cultivation in suspension using a shaker culture technique. Replication of suspension (MJY-beta) cells was more sensitive than monolayer cells to decreases in the concentration of serum in the medium. Comparison of amino acid incorporation and lactate production rates revealed additional differences between monolayer and suspension cultures. In addition, growth in suspension resulted in 10- to 400-fold increases in mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) production by the mammary tumor cells. Increases in MMTV yield were detected within 48 h of culture initiation and MMTV production remained elevated throughout 20 cell passages in suspension. Exposure of MJY-beta cells to 14 M hydrocortisone further increased MMTV yield two- to five-fold. The MJY-beta suspension cultures demonstrated that these epithelial-like cells do not require attachment to a solid substrate for replication or for MMTV production. Loss of structural polarization associated with growth as a monolayer resulted in stimulation of MMTV production greater than and independent of steroid exposure. 
4296124|An endothelial cell line derived from a massive recurrent chyle-containing retroperitoneal lymphangioma was isolated in monolayer culture. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry confirmed a close resemblance to blood vascular endothelium with typical cobblestone morphology, positive immunofluorescence staining for endothelial marker Factor VIII-associated antigen and fibronectin, and prominent Weibel-Palade bodies. The endothelial cells also exhibited other ultrastructural features characteristic of lymphatic endothelium, including sparse microvillous surface projections, overlapping intercellular junctions, and abundant intermediate filaments. This endothelial cell line represents a new source of proliferating lymphatic endothelium for future study, including structural and functional comparison to blood vascular endothelium.
20171546| We have studied the effects of all-trans retinol, all-trans retinoic acid, and anhydroretinol, a biologically inactive retinoid, on anchorage-independent growth of human fibroblasts induced by purified growth factors. The anchorage-independence assay was conducted in medium supplemented with serum that had had its peptide growth factors inactivated by treatment with dithiothreitol and iodoacetamide. Physiologic concentrations of either all-trans retinol (0.5 M) or all-trans retinoic acid (1.0 nM) but not anhydroretinol (0.5 M) reduced the frequency of anchorage-independent growth of normal human fibroblasts induced by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). All-trans retinol was also tested for its effect on the frequency of anchorage-independent growth induced by basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and was found to decrease this growth. All-trans retinol also reduced the frequency of anchorage-independent growth of the human fibrosarcoma-derived cell line, HT1080, which grew in semisolid medium without added growth factors. Inasmuch as these retinoids reduced the frequency of anchorage-independent growth induced by either PDGF or bFGF and because PDGF and bFGF bind to independent cell membrane receptors and are known to stimulate different pathways leading to DNA synthesis, the data suggest that physiologically active retinoids have an effect on a step that is common to both signal pathways. 
4296232|During morphogenesis, tumor progression and metastasis, cell adhesion, dissociation, and migration result from a complex balance between cell-to-cell and cell-to-matrix interactions. Two different organization patterns of MCF-7 cells were induced by different extracellular matrix proteins. When plated on plastic or polymeric type I collagen gel used as a model of interstitial matrix, MCF-7 cells spread and grew in monolayer. When cultured on a solid gel of basement membrane (BM) proteins (85% laminin) used as a model of BM, cells formed clusters attached to the matrix. Matrix proteins regulated these two types of cell organization by preferentially promoting cell-to-cell or cell-support interactions. On plastic in the presence of soluble laminin or on laminin-coated dishes, cells also formed clusters. Addition of soluble fibronectin induced spreading of the cells, suggesting that laminin and fibronectin have competitive antagonistic effects on MCF-7 cell morphology. Antilaminin antibodies inhibited cluster formation and attachment, emphasizing the important role of this glycoprotein not only in promoting cluster attachment but also in cell-to-cell contact formation. Such effects of extracellular matrix proteins could play significant roles in tumor progression and metastasis.
4296532|Epithelial cells isolated from fragments of hamster pancreas interlobular ducts were freed of fibroblast contamination by plating them on air-dried collagen, maintaining them in serum-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's (DME):F12 medium supplemented with growth factors, and selecting fibroblast-free aggregates of duct cells with cloning cylinders. Duct epithelial cells plated on rat type I collagen gel and maintained in DME.-F12 supplemented with Nu Serum IV, bovine pituitary extract, epidermal growth factor, 3,3',5-triodothyronine, dexamethasone, and insulin, transferrin, selenium, and linoleic acid conjugated to bovine serum albumin (
4295762|Culture conditions modulating cell damage from xanthine plus xanthine oxidase-derived partially reduced oxygen species were studied. Porcine thoracic aorta endothelial cells and porcine lung fibroblasts were maintained in monolayer culture. Cells were prelabeled with
20171523| Primary Rhodamine fibrosarcoma (RdF) cells from rats were shown to grow in serum-free medium supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), albumin, and transferrin, all of which were purified from RdF tissue. Their growth rate with these supplements was similar to that of cells in medium supplemented with calf serum. bFGF purified from RdF tissue (Rd-bFGF), which was previously designated as DNA synthesis factor, stimulated the growth of primary RdF cells maximally at 30 ng/ml in the presence of the other two proteins. Albumin and transferrin were separated from partially purified tumor growth stimulating activity which was previously shown to stimulate growth of primary RdF cells in serum-free medium. The albumin (RdA) and transferrin (RdT) found in the extract of RdF tissue were not due simply to contamination of the tissue with blood, but to their accumulations in the tissue. The growth stimulatory activities of RdA and RdT on primary RdF cells in serum-free medium were maximal at 30 and 10 g/ml, respectively. These results suggest that Rd-bFGF, RdA, and RdT, all of which accumulate in the tumor tissue, are essential for growth of RdF cells in the tissue. 
4296134|New cell lines, designated as ML-DmD1~10, were established from dissociated imaginai discs of Drosophila melanogaster. The culture medium was prepared by mixing in a 1:1 ratio Cross and Sang's M3(BF) medium, supplemented with 10% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS), with the supernatant of a primary embryonic cell culture made in the M3(BF) medium and supplementing this mixture with insulin. One cell line was established in the medium containing larval hemolymph instead of the primary culture supernatant, and another was established in fresh M3(BF) medium supplemented with insulin and FBS. In these mediums, imaginai disc cells first formed aggregates and cellular vesicles within a few weeks followed by the proliferation of thin-layered cells around them after about 1 mo. Ten cell lines have so far been established from two kinds of imaginai discs and disc mixtures. The ploidy of these cell lines was predominantly diploid. Population doubling time was about 50 to 70 h at 3 to 10 mo. after initiation of the culture. When the cell aggregates formed in vitro were implanted in metamorphosing larvae, they differentiated at high frequency into adult cuticular structures in the early phase of the primary culture. This differentiation of aggregates was also observed, though at low frequency, in a culture maintained by dilution-transfer for 6 to 15 mo. in vitro.
4296693|A primary constraint in the culture of human filariae is in obtaining starting material-either microfilariae (mfs), which infect invertebrates, or third stage larvae (L3s), which are infective to humans. Cryopreservation methods which partially overcome this difficulty have been developed for both mfs and L3s. Complete development of mfs to L3s outside an intact host was obtained recently when mosquito thoraces infected by Brugia malayi (24 h after the bloodmeal) were maintained in vitro. In another recent study in which no host tissues were present, a semidefined culture medium was used to investigate the properties of reduced glutathione (GSH) that stimulate early development of Onchocerca lienalis mfs. An extended cysteinyl backbone and a free sulfhydryl were identified as the key structural elements provided by GSH. Stimulation also required the presence of low and high molecular weight components of serum as well as oxygen. Molting of Onchocerca spp. L3s to the fourth stage at the rate of 50 to 70% has been reported by several researchers. Key factors identified in those successes have been temperature and serum lot. Improved long-term viability occurred with cellular co-culture. Beneficial effects of co-culture were shown to be due both to cellular conditioning of the medium as well as to lowered dissolved oxygen levels as a result of cellular metabolism. With the use of cell-conditioned medium and decreased incubator oxygen levels, long-term viability of Onchocerca larvae in culture exceeded that previously reported. Recently, Brugia malayi adults of both sexes were cultured from L3s using a semidefined medium supplemented with human serum. Many of these sexually matured adults mated and produced viable microfilariae.
4295783| Venom from the ant Pseudomyrmex triplarinus reduces the symptoms and swelling of rheumatoid arthritis. The cells that produce the venom were dissected from larval and pupal ants and culture conditions studied. Cell dissociation, with minimal amount of damage, was done with 0.25% trypsin at 4 C with subsequent use of soybean trypsin inhibitor. A new medium was formulated and epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, insulin, cAMP, cGMP, and isoproterenol were beneficial. The optimum osmotic pressure was a relatively high 500 mOSM. Conditioning the medium with an established insect cell line was essential for long-term cell survival. Under these culture conditions the structural and metabolic integrity of the cells were maintained for up to 12 mo. 
4296264|Very early embryonic mesoderm cells were taken from the primitive streak-stage chick embryo and cultured in a matrix of type I collagen in the presence of serum. Previous work has shown that under these conditions cells do not leave the explant and move in the collagen in the absence of supplemented avian transferrin. Cells explanted onto tissue culture plastic in the presence of serum do not require this transferrin supplement. These observations were investigated further by culturing cells in collagen in the presence of the lipophilic iron chelator, ferric pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone (FePIH), which can replace transferrin as an iron-delivery agent. Under conditions in which FePIH could effectively stimulate chick embryo myoblast growth, no such long-term stimulation was obtained with the early mesoderm cells in collagen. This suggested that for mesoderm cells, FePIH could not replace transferrin. Antibody to the transferrin receptor and to transferrin itself inhibited growth of myoblasts in collagen and on plastic, and of mesoderm cells in collagen. Mesoderm cells on plastic, however, were refractory to the presence of the antibody directed to the receptor and seemed to show a low dependency on transferrin-delivered iron under these conditions, inasmuch as antiserum to transferrin itself only caused a partial inhibition of outgrowth. The results suggest that mesoderm cells in collagen require transferrin for both iron uptake and for another unspecified function. It is consistent with the results to propose that transferrin binding might modulate the cells' attachment to collagen, thus influencing outgrowth. The distribution of the actin cytoskeleton in mesoderm cells actively migrating in collagen, such as in the presence of transferrin, suggests a stronger attachment to the collagen than nonmigrating cells.
4295825|Callus growth from 10 cultivars of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench was measured with increasing levels of polyethylene glycol (PEG) as an osmoticum in the medium to determine whether differences among these cultivars at the cellular level in response to osmotic stress existed. These cellular ratings were compared to field ratings from the 10 tolerant-to-susceptible cultivars when grown under drought conditions to determine whether cellular ratings corresponded to differences in drought tolerance at the plant level. Callus cultures were grown on Murashige and Skoog inorganic salt formulation plus vitamins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), kinetin and sucrose, supplemented with 0 to 25% (wt/vol) PEG corresponding to -0.2 to -1.62 MPa osmotic potential. Results suggest that PEG-induced osmotic stress on callus cultures can be used to screen sorghum cultivars for potential early field (preflowering) drought tolerance. This implies that at least a component of the early field drought tolerance in sorghum may have a cellular basis.
4295973|Gossypol, a polyphenolic compound known to interfere with spermatogenesis, was found to have differential cytotoxic effects on normal and malignant melanocytes in culture. Ultrastructurally it caused marked swelling and vacuolization of mitochondria; there was an almost complete loss of cristae but the outer mitochondrial membrane was retained. The cytotoxicity seemed to be selective for actively proliferating cells, regardless of normal or malignant origin. An endothelial cell line (RF/6A) derived from the choroid-retina of the eye of a rhesus fetus was extremely sensitive to its toxic effect. The mechanism of action is still unknown. The fact that mitochondria are predominantly damaged suggests that toxicity involves a perturbation of energy metabolism and the membrane transport system.
4296146| Time- and dose-dependent toxic effects of lead (Pb) acetate on astroglia, oligodendroglia, and meningeal fibroblasta cultured from immature rat brain were measured. Cultures were exposed for 3 d to Pb (1,10, and 100 M) and then examined immediately (Day 0) or 3 or 10 d after Pb treatment was discontinued. The percentages of astroglia and fibroblasts excluding dye were unaffected by Pb, whereas the percentage of oligodendroglia excluding dye decreased significantly (P <0.01) at all time points after exposure to 100 M Pb. Lead (100 M) also reduced the total cell numbers of astroglia, oligodendroglia, and meningeal fibroblasts. Amino acid incorporation into protein by oligodendroglia was stimulated after exposure to 100 M Pb at all time points and also by 1 and 10 M on Day 3. Incorporation was stimulated in astroglia only on Day 0 by 10 and 100 M. Hydrocortisone-stimulated glycerolphosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) activity was assayed in oligodendroglia cultures. A significant decrease in specific activity was seen after a 4-d exposure to lead. Because oligodendroglia are responsible for myelin synthesis in the central nervous system, and GPDH may synthesize a precursor for myelin lipid synthesis, it was proposed that the hypomyelination observed in leadintoxicated neonatal rats may result partially from a primary toxic effect on oligodendroglia. GPDH activity was not inhibited by Pb in mixed glial cultures containing both astroglia and oligodendroglia. This result suggests that astroglia in culture have the ability to delay the lead-induced inhibition of oligodendroglial GPDH activity and supports the hypothesis that astroglia in culture serve a protective function. 
4296861|Culturing human prostate PC-3 cells for 4, 24, or 72 h in the presence of 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid (ETYA), an inhibitor of arachidonic acid metabolism and cholesterol biosynthesis, markedly altered the morphology and reduced the number of mitochondria in the treated cells. Using quantitative electron microscopic morphometry, we documented changes in the number, form, area, matrix density, and integrity of the cristae and limiting membranes of mitochondria in cells cultured with ETYA. The inhibition of cholesterol synthesis or the substitution of ETYA for polyunsaturated fatty acids in the inner membrane may participate in the disruption of the mitochondria, which resembles the morphologic sequelae of oxidative stress. If sufficiently extensive, these changes could contribute to the inhibition of cellular proliferation by ETYA.
20171549| Primary rat hepatocyte suspension cultures (2  10 cells) exposed to solubilized 2,3,4-trimethylpentane at concentrations ranging from 7.9 to 31.5 mM under two different culture conditions resulted in a linear dose response, as determined by lactate dehydrogenase leakage and viability data. A significant increase in the 2,3,4-trimethylpentane effective concentration 50 for primary hepatocytes occurred when exposures were implemented in medium containing 0.05% albumin. The effective concentration 50 for hepatocytes exposed to 2,3,4-trimethylpentane in medium lacking and containing albumin were 17.1 and 20.7 mM, respectively. Metabolite analysis by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry of supernatant (lacking or containing albumin) and cell extracts from hepatocyte cultures exposed to 2,3,4-trimethylpentane for 4 h indicated the presence of three metabolites: 2,3,4-trimethyl-1-pentanol, 2,3,4-trimethyl-2-pentanol, and 2,3,4-trimethyl-1-pentanoic acid. Electron microscopic examination of 2,3,4-trimethylpentane-exposed primary hepatocytes indicated ultrastructural changes which included abnormal condensed chromatin association with the nuclear membrane, swollen mitochondria, increased amounts of cytoplasmic lipid, significant loss of microvilli from the cell surface, increased vacuolation, and increased numbers of peroxisomes. Although these changes were observed under both culture conditions, they were more severe in cultures lacking albumin. This study indicates that primary hepatocyte suspension cultures provide a useful system for rapidly identifying liver metabolites of selected test compounds of interest. 
4296551|When confluent monolayers of cells derived from chicken embryos of different gestational age were cultured for several days without a medium change, a condition termed in vitro aging, the cells' developed an increased capacity to express the interferon (IFN) system. The capacity to both produce IFN and to respond to its antiviral action were enhanced up to 1000- and 100-fold, respectively. Remarkably, the programmed development of the IFN system in these cells seemed to continue virtually uninterrupted after monodispersion of the cells and seeding at high cell density. Cells prepared from young embryos required more time to develop the IFN system than cells from older embryos with the yield of IFN, and sensitivity to its action, related directly to the total in ovo and in vitro age of the cells in culture. For example, essentially the same yields of IFN were obtained from cell cultures made from 5-d-old embryos "aged" for 10 d in vitro, as were obtained from 10-d-old embryos whose cells were aged in vitro for 5 d. In contrast, inducibility of 2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase by IFN and the induction of heat shock genes by elevated temperature are not enhanced with in vitro aging. The programmed development of the IFN system that starts in ovo seems to continue on schedule in vitro, making the development of the IFN system in chick embryo cells appear as a time-dependent process.
4295925|Primary cultures of newborn mouse epidermal cells proliferate rapidly and with a high growth fraction for several months when grown in medium with low calcium (0.02 to 0.1 mM). Addition of calcium to levels generally used in culture medium (1.2 mM) was followed by rapid changes in the pattern of proliferation. By using a combination of technics (a stathmokinetic method, autoradiography, [
4296888|A coleopteran cell line (AGE) derived from the cotton boll weevil Anthonomus grandis supported replication of Autographa californica multiple nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV). The titer of extracellular virus (ECV) and the number of occlusion bodies (OB) produced in AGE cells were approximately equal to those produced by a Trichoplusia ni cell line (TN-CL1), and the OB produced by both cell lines were equally infectious for T. ni larvae. The identity of the AGE cell line was established by chromosome and isoenzyme analyses.
4296252|A new model for organ culture of endocrine tissue is described. Rat anterior pituitary fragments were cultured for 4 wk within semipermeable polyurethane isocyanate hollow fibers. Growth hormone and prolactin, two of the anterior pituitary hormones, were released into the medium during the entire culture period. Electron microscopy of the pituitary fragments after 2 wk in culture showed a rim of viable tissue in all specimens examined. Individual cells, from this outer rim, exhibited excellent organelle preservation and numerous secretory granules. Experiments involving potassium depolarization and 10
4296367|This study was originally designed to investigate whether there is any correlation between the type of procoagulant activity (PCA) and the tumorigenicity of transformed cells. The data obtained are relevant to this question and to defining the differences in the expression of cellular activities depending on the in vitro system used. PCA was measured and characterized in normal, immortalized, and tumorigenic mouse fibroblasts. In all the cell lines studied the activity was of tissue factor type, as established with functional, enzymatic, and immunochemical criteria. However, the PCA of cells freshly isolated from the tumors induced by tumorigenic cell lines was of cancer procoagulant type, i.e. a cysteine protease with direct factor X activator activity. The same cells, when cultured in vitro, expressed again PCA of tissue-factor type. These results suggest that either a tumor-host interaction is required for the expression of cancer procoagulant or the latter activity, produced by tumor cells under in vitro conditions, is destroyed or inactivated during the culture period. Our findings caution against defining the procoagulant activity of tumors based on experiments on cultured cells.
4295772|The ability of insect hemolymph to induce vesicles in a high passage insect cell line, IAL-TND1, is described. The factor responsible, designated VPA for 'vesicle-promoting activity", was determined to be heat sensitive, nondialyzable, and protease Type XIV sensitive but insensitive to tryp-sin digestion. In efforts to determine the source of VPA, hemolymph was collected from different developmental stages of Trichoplusia ni, and certain tissues from T. ni were cocultured with IAL-TND1 cells. Hemolymph from every developmental stage tested exhibited VPA although the effect was somewhat reduced in spinning-stage larvae. Additionally, several tissues, including fat body, tess, and imaginai discs, released VPA into the culture medium. Neural tissues and endocrine glands did not induce vesicle formation.
4295853|Nasal turbinate epithelial cells were isolated from rats, rabbits, and humans using either a surgical or an in situ enzyme incubation technique. The culture conditions that permit optimal cell attachment and selective growth of the nasal epithelial cells were determined. These conditions will permit the long-term culture of these cells where typically 20 to 30 population doublings were observed. Differences between rat and human nasal epithelial cells were seen in substrate requirements, colony-forming efficiency, and response to fetal bovine serum and bovine serum albumin. These methodology and results will permit mechanistic studies of normal and abnormal cellular function and comparative response studies between nasal epithelial cells from rats and humans.
4295966|Human arterial endothelial cells were cultured in vitro for up to 40 cumulative population doublings. Culture conditions similar to those required for long-term propagation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells were employed. These included fibronectin-coated culture vessels, 5 to 20% fetal bovine serum, endothelial cell growth factor, and heparin. Thoracic aorta endothelial cells were larger than iliac artery endothelial cells. Both cell types stained positively for Factor VIII antigen by immunofluorescence. A decrease in confluent density as a function of population doubling level was correlated with the appearance of large, senescent cells in the cultures. Serum growth factors to which the arterial endothelial cells responded included insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor, thrombin, and somatomedins. The effect of thrombin did not require the availability of the active site of the protease. The effect of the somatomedins was only seen in the presence of heparin. Neither platelet-derived growth factor nor hydrocortisone induced arterial endothelial cell proliferation. These growth factor responses were also observed on the part of human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
4295856|Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activities were significantly higher in proliferative endometrium during the estrogen-dominated follicular phase of the menstrual cycle than in secretory endometrium after the formation of the progesterone-secreting corpus luteum. The enzymatic activity was increased about fivefold by renewal of the medium during incubations of endometrial fragments or isolated endometrial glands. Endometrial adenocarcinoma cells (HEC-1, HEC-50), both in monolayers and suspension, also responded to medium renewal by increasing ODC activity about 10-fold after 4 h, with subsequent reduction to control levels after 7 h. These effects were blocked by actinomycin D and cycloheximide. Endometrial stromal cells exhibited highly variable ODC activities at different passages. Difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and sodium molybdate had marked antiproliferative effects in HEC-50 cultures, reducing cell numbers to 10 to 20% of control values 11 d after plating and inhibiting ODC activity by approximately 80% on Day 7. The antiproliferative effect of DFMO, but not that of molybdate, was reversed by
4295864|Long-term monolayer cultures of adult rat hepatocytes were tested for their ability to glucuronize phenol red and to maintain initial levels of cell proteins, glucose consumption, and lactic acid production. Lactate dehydrogenase leakage served as an index of culture status because a high value indicates cell death. Three tissue culture (TC) media formulations were the main variables introduced to determine ideal conditions for cell survival in vitro. Investigations of long-term cultures were preceded by studies of hepatocyte attachment to polystyrene surfaces. This attachment was influenced by the amount of substrate deposited and the number of cells seeded, but not by the uniformity of the substrate coating. A statistical analysis of our data revealed that in the absence of fetal bovine serum (FBS), air dried collagen (ADC) and Biomatrix (BMX) were superior to saline precipitated collagen and fibronectin as attachment substrates. In the presence of 10% FBS, all of the substrates performed equally. Chee's Medium (CEM) proved to be the best for preserving cell proteins over a time course of 28 d and Williams' E medium also performed adequately up to 14 d. The glucuronization of phenol red was at 50% of initial values at Day 7 in CEM-ADC hepatocytes in contrast to 30% for cells in Williams' E medium and 5% for cells grown in Waymouth's. At 14 d glucuronization was still present at 40% of original values in CEM-ADC cells but had ceased in the other two media. When BMX was used, none of the TC media supported glucuronization levels comparable to ADC cells.
4295977| A method is described to generate microcells from human lymphobalsts for use in microcell-mediated chromosome transfer (MMCT). Micronuclei were induced in cells from a human lymphoblastic cell line by prolonged colcemid treatment, and were separated from these lymphoblasts by: (a) attaching the cells to Concanavalin A coated plastic slides designed for enucleation, and (b) centrifuging the slides in medium containing cytochalasin B. Microcells of less than 3 m in diameter were fused with thymidine kinase negative mouse fibroblasts (LMTK-). HAT medium (hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine) was used to select microcell hybrids expressing thymidine kinase activity. Positive clones were isolated and Q-banded for chromosome analysis. Unlike previous methods, this procedure permits microcells to be easily generated from lymphoid cells. This methodology of enucleation of microcells may be extended to a variety of other donor cell types which can be micronucleated but which do not adhere tightly to enucleation slides and do not exhibit extrusion subdivision. This feature makes our methodology particularly useful for constructing a library of hybrid clones containing one or a few human chromosomes. 
4296585|Primary cultures of 9-d-gestation Syrian hamster embryo (E9) cells are distinct from primary cultures of later gestational age in terms of their growth and differentiation. First, primary E9 cell cultures express multiple mesenchymal differentiation lineages (e.g., adipocyte, myoblast) only rarely seen in cultures of 13-d-gestation fetal (F13) cells. Second, although most primary E9 cultures have a limited in vitro proliferative life span and exhibit cellular senescence similar to primary cultures of F13 cells, E9 cultures seem to have higher frequency of escape from senescence and conversion to continuous cell lines compared to F13 cells. Moreover, this frequency can be further increased 4- to 5-fold by continuous exposure of the E9 cells to tumor promoters or epidermal growth factor. Eleven continuous cell lines have been isolated from unreated, promoter-treated, or epidermal growth factor-treated primary E9 cultures. Seven of these are neoplastic or preneoplastic. However, the remaining four do not show any evidence of being in neoplastic progression and three of these continue to express the same differentiated phenotype observed in ther parental primary cell cultures.
4296061|The liver of rodents is sexually differentiated, i.e. the female liver differs from the male liver. This differentiation is largely controlled by the pattern of growth hormone (GH) secretion. We have attempted to maintain GH-dependent differentiation of cultured rat hepatocytes. We examined the level of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity, which responds to GH and is higher in female than in male liver, and the estrogen receptor, which is dependent on GH but is present in equal amounts in males and females. ADH activity was maintained in cells from male rats, but fell by 40% in cells from females in medium supplemented with insulin and dexamethasone. The estrogen receptor content of female cells fell dramatically to undetectable levels within 2 d of culture. Extensive supplementation of the medium failed to prevent the decrease in ADH activity in female cells; similarly, the addition of female sex steroids; rat serum; pituitary extracts; rat, human, or bovine GH; or ovine prolactin failed to maintain the enzyme activity. Insulin, dexamethasone, thyroid hormone plus GH or prolactin, or the combination of all five hormones also failed to prevent the loss of estrogen receptors. Short-term cultures of rat hepatocytes, although retaining the liver-specific expression of ADH at the male level, lose GH-dependent expression of the estrogen receptor and stimulation of ADH activity.
4296320|The pseudostratified tracheal epithelium, composed of a heterogeneous phenotypically varying cell population, was studied with respect to the in vitro cell proliferative activity of differentiated epithelial cells. Ciliated tracheal epithelial cells so far have been considered to be terminally differentiated, nonproliferating cells. Tracheal organ cultures obtained from vitamin A-deprived Syrian Golden hamsters were cultured in a vitamin A-deficient, serum-free, hormone-supplemented medium. In vitamin A-deprived tracheal epithelium treated with physiologically active all-trans retinol and low cigarette-smoke condensate concentrations it is possible to stimulate the cell proliferation of both basal and columnar cells. Therefore, the probability of finding proliferating columnar cells was increased compared with the in vivo and the vitamin A-deprived situation in which cell proliferative activity is relatively low. In the presence of cigarette-smoke condensate in a noncytotoxic concentration, basal, small mucous granule, ciliated, and indifferent tracheal epithelial cells incorporated [methyPH]-thymidine into the DNA during the S phase. The finding that ciliated cells were labeled was supported by serial sections showing the same labeled ciliated cell in two section planes separated by 2 to
20171570|Induction of somatic embryogenesis refers to processes that initiate embryo-forming cellular activity. Competence of somatic tissues for embryo formation is measured by the number of somatic embryos produced following induction. Recent findings indicate that competence of wheat explants can be enhanced by treatments that alter hormone levels during differentiation of explants in vivo. Wheat spikes have been detached at anthesis and cultured with culms in detached-spike-culture medium. The addition of abscisic acid, indole-3-acetic acid or zeatin to the medium depresses embryogenic competence of immature-embryo explants (excised and cultured 11-13 days after anthesis) while deleting hormones from the medium enhances competence. Differentiation of somatic embryos is improved by exposing embryogenic cultures to conditions that simulate nutritional, hormonal and gas-phase conditions of ovules. In particular the lowering of oxygen availability to callus cultures promotes growth of embryogenic callus and suppresses growth of nonembryogenic callus. Finally procedures that simulate seed desiccation significantly increase germination percentages of somatic embryos of wheat.
4296092| Biosynthetic human epidermal growth factor (Bh-EGF) induced dose-dependent synthesis and secretion of neutral mucin glycoprotein when the fundal cells isolated from rabbit stomach were cultured in serum-free medium containing Bh-EGF at concentrations as high as 10 to 100 ng/ml. At these high concentrations, Bh-EGF had no effect on the cell growth. In marked contrast, much lower concentrations from 0.1 to 1.0 ng/ml of Bh-EGF failed to stimulate mucin synthesis, but enhanced proliferation of the cells. Electrophoretic pattern of the mucin secreted from the cultured mucosal cells was very similar to that of the authentic mucin obtained from rabbit stomach. Maximal secretion of the mucin from the cells was observed at Hour 96 of the culture. Although fetal bovine serum (5%) and insulin (0.5 g/ml) also stimulated the mucosal cells, both in growth and in mucin synthesis and release, the enhancing activity of the mucin synthesized and released by Bh-EGF at a concentration of 100 ng/ml per microgram DNA of cultured cells was far superior to that of 5% fetal bovine serum and 0.5 g/ml insulin. 
4296442|Normal human breast epithelial cells obtained from a reduction mammoplasty (S130) have been maintained in culture for up to a year in Ham's F12:Dulbecco's medium, with 5% equine serum and a low calcium concentration (0.04 mM). These cells undergo senescence and terminal differentiation if they are switched to high
20171371|Genetic factors controlling the differential expression of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of maize from tissue culture were studied in two crosses. Inbred, hybrid, F2 and backcross generations developed from crossing maize inbred A188 with two commercially important inbred maize lines (B73 and Mo17) demonstrated genetic and environmental effects on somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration when immature zygotic embryos were cultured on MS medium. Additive gene effects were more important in both crosses than dominant gene effects for precent somatic embryogenesis and percent or number of plants regenerated per embryo when generation means were analyzed. In backcross generations of each cross, cytoplasmic, maternal and/or paternal effects were significant for frequency of somatic embryos three weeks after culture as well as frequency, or number of plants regenerated per embryo, nine weeks after culture. Analysis of genetic variances suggests at least one gene (or block of genes) controls the expression of the frequency of somatic embryogenesis in these crosses. Differences in somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration between B73 and Mo17 are discussed.
20171493| Proximal tubules were prepared from rat kidney cortex by collagenase digestion and purified by Percoll gradient centrifugation. Their enrichment was estimated by comparing the specific activities of various cell-specific enzymes in homogenates of renal cortex and of the isolated tubules. The tubules were cultured in a 50:50 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's and Ham's F12 media supplemented with insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, and prostaglandin E. After 2 to 3 d an extensive outgrowth of epithelial cells developed from the attached tubules. After 5 to 7 d near confluent monolayers were obtained. Hormonal responsiveness, marker enzyme activities, and transport properties were determined to further characterize the primary cultures. The cultured cells exhibited increased cyclic AMP production in response to parathyroid hormone but not calcitonin or vasopressin, consistent with the absence of cells derived from distal and collecting tubules. The cells also retained significant levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D-1-hydroxylase, alkaline phosphatase, and -glytamyl-transpeptidase, three enzymes that are primarily associated with the proximal tubule. The cultured epithelial cells also exhibit a Na-dependent phosphate and glucose transport systems. Therefore, the cells retain many functional properties that are characteristic of proximal tubules. Thus, the primary cultures should be suitable for the study of processes that occur specifically within this segment of the rat nephron. 
4296660|Infection of human gastrointestinal submucosal mesenchymal cells with HIV-1 led to cell populations with abnormal growth properties, increased synthesis of endothelial cell and angioblast markers, and release of angiogenic factors. This system may be the first in vitro model for HIV-induced Kaposi's sarcoma.
4296483|Epithelial cells from human fetal and adult gingiva were cultured in keratinocyte growth medium (KGM), a serum-free medium. The expression of keratin proteins in these cells was evaluated using immunohistochemistry and SDS-PAGE-immunoblot analysis and compared with expression in the tissue. Keratins 5, 6, 14, 16, and 19 were identified in cells cultured from both fetal and adult tissues. K19 was localized in basal cells of fetal oral tissue but was not seen in adult gingiva (except for scattered Merkel cells). K1 and K10 were expressed in tissue, but not in cultured cells. The keratin profiles of cultured epithelial cells from several adult donors were similar and were identical in cultures from primary through Passage 5. K13, a differentiation-specific keratin, was expressed in all suprabasal cells of fetal oral epithelium, but shows only spotty expression in adult gingival tissue. K13 was expressed in cultures of fetal cells, but very weakly or not at all in cultures of adult cells. K13 expression was greater in cultures grown with physiologic calcium concentrations (1.2 mM) than in those grown at 0.15 mM or less. Our findings are consistent with basal-like characters of these cells in 0.15 mM calcium growth conditions. Differentiation of fetal oral cells in culture to the suprabasal basal cell stage in 1.2 mM Ca<sup>2+</sup> is shown by the expressionof K13.
4295780|A whole-organ perfusion system was used to culture tracheas from adult Swiss mice and test this system's adaptability for use in adherence assays for virulent Bordetella pertussis. Culture medium and bacterial suspensions flowed readily through the tracheal lumen, ciliary activity was maintained throughout the culture period, and scanning electron microscopy revealed retention of normal surface morphology. The number of adherent colony-forming units (cfu) per trachea was determined for all three Bordetella species every 30 min over a 3.5-h incubation period and the resultant adherence patterns were reproducible. Adherent cfu were dependent on the concentration of microorganisms in the infecting inoculum. Bordetella pertussis did not demonstrate a preferential adherence to either the dorsal or ventral surface of the tracheal epithelium nor did it demonstrate a preference for adherence to the laryngeal or bronchial end of the trachea. Static growth conditions did alter the adherence pattern of B. pertussis from that observed when the organism was grown with constant agitation.
4296016|Objective, accurate, non-intrusive measurement of in vitro cell growth was realized through microcomputerized video image analysis. Recently-released video and digitizing hardware and software were incorporated into an analytical system which accurately quantified visual differences between cultures on a cell number or fresh mass basis. Sequential measurements during culture incubation further detected and quantified subtle changes in colony area and density resulting from growth. Each measurement was acquired rapidly, without encroaching on the in vitro environment, so cell growth was undisturbed. Custom software routines coordinated the quantification of this detailed record into precise cumulative growth curves.
20171478| The conditions for optimum incorporation of radioactive amino acids into proteins of cultured postimplantation mouse embryos were investigated under the aspect of using these proteins for two-dimensional electrophoretic separations and fluorography. The aim was to obtain highly radioactively labeled proteins under conditions as physiological as possible. Mouse embryos of Days 8, 10, and 11 of gestation were cultured in Tyrode's solution. Incubation time and concentration of [H (or C)]amino acids in the culture medium were varied over a broad range. Embryos were prepared with placenta and yolk sac or without any embryonic envelopes. After culturing, the physiologic-morphologic state of the embryos was registered on the basis of several criteria. The radioactivity taken up by the total protein of each embryo was determined and calculated in disintegrations per minute per milligram protein per embryo. To approach our aim, embryos of different developmental stages had to be cultured under different conditions. A good compromise for Day-8, Day-10, and Day-11 embryos was: embryos prepared with yolk sac (opened) and placenta, 150 Ci radioactive amino acids added per milliliter medium, incubation for 4 to 5 h. For maximum labeling of proteins it is advisable to culture Day-10 embryos without embryonic envelopes under particular conditions. 
4296245|Anther culture of the Easter Lily (Lilium longiflorum; 2n = 2x = 24) was attempted in ordefto evaluate its potential in generating haploids for the production of hybrid cultivars. The effects of genotype, temperature (low temperature treatment of buds and high temperature treatment of cultures), sucrose concentration and growth regulators were tested. The most important factors for callus induction were the genotype and the presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Pre-treatments at low or high temperature had no apparent effect, while high sucrose concentration was inhibitory. Callus was derived from 28 of the 108 genotypes tested and plants were regenerated. Phenotypic variations were observed among these regenerants. Somatic chromosome numbers were determined in 42 plants derived from 10 donor genotypes. Thirteen plants were diploid and 29 were mixoploid with chromosome numbers ranging from 11 to 26. Four of the mixoploid plants had a high proportion of cells with haploid chromosome numbers, particularly at early stages of development. Meiosis was examined in plants with flower buds. Most plants had 12 bivalents at Metaphase I, but also aneuploids were observed. Other irregularities included bridges and laggards at Anaphase I. The occurrence of high frequencies of haploid cells (up to 80%) in root tips suggests that some plants may be of gametic origin.
20171531| Production of antibodies against peptides or poorly antigenic proteins by conventional methods often requires either large quantities of the native immunogen or some chemical modification to increase their antigenicity. In this study an in vivo and in vitro immunization protocol has been used to generate monoclonal antibodies against the decapeptide luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). Two injections of 100 g of avian LHRH-I into BALB/c mice were given 7 d apart. Dissociated splenocytes were collected under sterile conditions. They were incubated with 100 g of the immunogen in 75-cm tissue culture flasks in thymocyte-conditioned media. After 5 to 8 d exposure to the antigen, splenocytes were fused with SP2/O myeloma cells by polyethylene glycol. The cells were plated into 24 wells and then incubated in hypoxanthine aminopterin and thymidine selective media. After 14 d an initial screening was done by enzyme immunoassay. The positive wells (6/24) were expanded into 96-well plates and rescreened. Selected lines were cloned out 3 times by limiting dilution and the most positive expanded for ascites production. The antibody was affinity purified in a protein A column. The antibody cross-reacted with LHRH-I and II but preferentially to LHRH-I, as shown by competitive assay. A hypothalamic extract from a mature chick showed a higher response than preparations from whole brain explants of 1-to 3-d posthatched chicks, mature quail, and mature mouse. 
4296932|Surface proteins were compared in endothelial cells (EC) obtained from bovine peripheral lung, pulmonary artery and vein, and dorsal aorta using sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Galactose-containing glycoproteins [molecular weight (M
4296234|Cells from mechanically dissociated postblastokinetic embryos of the rangeland grasshopper, Melanoplus sanguinipes, were seeded in Falcon Primaria culture dishes and monitored for attachment, growth, and differentiation. Various sonicated nutrient phospholipid combinations, including both natural complexes and specific synthetic lipid types, were tested on these embryonic tissues as supplements in combination with three serum-containing basal media. The combined use of Primaria culture vessels and lipid supplementation supported the growth of various epithelioid as Well as fibroblastoid and other cell types. Some cells became tightly associated into partially differentiated tissuelike growths that included networks of ducted tracheolarlike cells, ducted granular epithelioid cells, and networks and sheets of slowly contracting muscle cells. The tissue-associated cell types and two individually growing cell types (a plasmatocytoid or hemocytic cell and a peculiar black granule-containing cell) were serially subcultured from three to nine times in Primaria vessels. Tissues subcultured in standard plastic culture vessels were selected by this growth surface for fibroblastoid cell types or expressed a fibroblastoid morphology, or both, within 1 to 3 passages. The growth of cells bearing neuritelike and glialike processes was stimulated in the primary cultures by certain medium and lipid combinations, but these cell types were not subcultivable.
4296484|SV40 viruses bearing mutations at the carboxy-terminus of large T antigen exhibit a host-range phenotype: such viruses are able to grow in BSC monkey kidney cells at 37 C, but give at least 10 000-fold lower yields than wild type virus in BSC cells at 32 C or in CV1 monkey kidney cells at either temperature. The block to infection in the nonpermissive cell type occurs after the onset of viral DNA replication. Infectious progeny virions are produced at very low efficiency. Although capsid proteins are synthesized at decreased levels, this does not account for the magnitude of the defect. Presumably some step of virion assembly or maturation is affected in these mutants. We have previously reported that the viral agnogene product, a protein thought to be involved in viral assembly or release, fails to accumulate in CV1 cells infected with host-range mutants. In polyoma virus the middle T antigen plays a role in virion maturation by influencing the phosphorylation of capsid proteins. In this communication we show that host-range mutants fail to undergo productive infection of CV1 cells expressing middle T antigen. These mutants do form plaques on an agnoprotein-expressing cell line. However, the agnoprotein does not seem to act by correcting the mutational block but rather increases the efficiency of plaque formation.
4295747|Cerebrovascular endothelial cells from adult bovine brain were carried successfully in long-term, serial culture. Endothelial cells were obtained from the middle and anterior cerebral arteries and from capillaries isolated from grey matter of the cerebral cortex or caudate nucleus. Capillary cells were found to grow best in RPMI 1640 with 20% fetal bovine serum. They did not require tumor-conditioned medium or matrix-coated surfaces, although fibronectin was used to enhance the initial plating efficiency of the primary cultures. The same conditions were used to support satisfactory growth of arterial endothelial cells; however they did not grow as rapidly as the capillary cells. Retention of endothelial-specific characteristics were shown for capillary-derived cells carried up to Passage 28, arterial-derived cells up to Passage 11, and after frozen storage of both types of cultured cells. Cultures of both arterial and capillary cells stained positively for Factor VIII antigen, exhibited a nonthrombogenic surface, and produced prostacyclin in response to arachidonic acid. Arterial endothelial cells produced more prostacyclin than capillary endothelium. The capillary cells had a unique tendency to assume a ringlike morphology after subculture and sometimes formed capillarylike networks of cell cords in dense cultures. When cultured in a three-dimensional plasma clot, capillary and arterial endothelial cells, but none of the other cell types studied, organized into tubelike structures reminiscent of capillary formation in vivo. The availability of long-term cultures of cerebrovascular endothelial cells provides an opportunity to compare properties of arterial and capillary endothelium from the same tissue and to investigate such processes as angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier induction.
4295938|We examined whether endothelial cells derived from different blood vessels vary in their susceptibility to viral infection. Five common viral pathogens of humans (herpes simplex 1, measles, mumps, echo 9, and coxsackie B4 viruses) were evaluated for growth in endothelial cells derived from bovine fetal pulmonary artery, thoracic aorta, and vena cava. All five viruses replicated in each type of endothelial cell. There were apparent differences in the quantities of measles and mumps viruses produced in pulmonary artery endothelium compared with thoracic aorta and vena cava when endothelial cells were obtained from different animals. However, when pulmonary artery endothelial cells were compared with vena cava cells from the same animal, growth of each virus was similar in the two cell types. Four of the viruses replicated in the various endothelial cells without producing appreciable changes in cell morphology. These results indicate that endothelial cells from different blood vessels are equally susceptible to the human viruses evaluated, and that viral replication can occur without major alterations in cell morphology. Endothelial cells could serve as permissive cells permitting viruses to leave the circulation and initiate infection in adjacent tissues, including subendothelial smooth muscle cells.
4296599|Binding characteristics and effects of 3,5,-3'-triiodo-L-thyronine (T
20171569| A hybrid cell line was constructed by fusion of mouse L-cells with an NIH3T3 cell line derivative containing a hybrid gene consisting of the mouse immunoglobulin kappa (IgK) variable gene promoter linked to the Escherichia coli gpt gene. Such hybrids grew to a much higher density compared to either of the parental cell lines. The utility of this cell line as a host to express foreign genes was tested by the expression of TGF- cDNA using the cytomegalovirus promoter. The vector also contained the human dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene driven by SV40 early promoter, to allow for the amplification of the transfected gene. Initial transformants, selected at 100 nM methotrexate (MTX), were subsequently selected for resistance to a higher concentration of MTX (2 M). Such clones expressed an increased level of TGF- when compared to the initial transformants. Both the initial transformants and the clones with the amplified DHFR gene produced TGF- in an acid-activatable precursor form. This mouse hybrid host cell line also allowed the expression of foreign gene cloned in an eukaryotic expression vector with the mouse IgK variable region promoter and human growth hormone as the reporter gene, whereas such vectors did not function in CHO cells. The mouse hybrid cell line was also found to be capable of being used with a broad range of promoters. 
4296283|The endocytotic process in cultured human RPE cells was observed after 1 min, 20 min, and 2 h incubation with cationized ferritin. Within 1 min the ferritin particles were seen to attach to the cell membrane, especially between microvilli. Uncoated and coated pits could be recognized on the cell membranes, and uncoated and coated endocytotic vesicles were found in the cytoplasm after 20 min of incubation. These vesicles were surrounded by abundant microfilaments and had no visible membranes. Loss of membrane may be an initial step in the process of developing into the irregular clumps of ferritin particles found inside the plasma membrane. With time, more irregular clumps of ferritin, smaller than the particles introduced during incubation, appeared just beneath the cell membrane. Lysosomes were adjacent to the clumps of ferritin particles associated with microtubules and finally degraded these particles. The phagolysosomes containing many particles were surrounded by many microtubules. Small ferritin particles surrounded but had not entered the rough endoplasmic reticulums, and no particles were seen either around or in the Golgi apparatus.
4296631| Three human yolk sac carcinoma cell lines were characterized for the expression of several markers. Each of the cell lines expressed alpha-fetoprotein, without detectable levels of chorionic gonadotropin, and the level of alpha-fetoprotein expression increased dramatically when the cultures were held without passage for extended periods. The secretion of a number of plasma proteins was documented by metabolic labeling, immunoprecipitation, and gel analysis. The major plasma proteins detected were alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-fetoprotein, transthyretin, -2 microglobulin, and plasminogen, with lower levels of transferrin and complement C4 released. Apolipoproteins B, E, and A1 were secreted in high levels as well and were found in the form of lipoprotein particles. Time course experiments on the synthesis of apolipoproteins E and A1 indicated that, as with alpha-fetoprotein, the level of synthesis increased substantially when the cultures were held without passage. The results indicate that these yolk sac carcinoma cells display a protein expression profile similar to that observed for the human yolk sac, and the possibility that the cells may have the potential to differentiate is discussed. 
4296564|Ciliated cell cultures can be produced in outgrowths from explants of human respiratory epithelium. An image analysis technique was developed to quantify the percentage of active ciliated cells present in these cultures. The subtraction 2 by 2 of five successive video images of the cultures, followed by the addition of the resulting images, allowed the determination of the culture surface covered by ciliated cells. The percentage of this surface varied according to the region of the explant (27.7% in the outgrowth near the explant and 4.1% at the periphery of the outgrowth). High variations were observed within the same region of an outgrowth, as well as from one outgrowth to another. However, maximal differentiation was observed after 4 d of culture. The quantitation technique described in the present work might be useful for studying in vitro the respiratory epithelial injury and the subsequent repair processes.
4296980| The relative strengths of several commonly used viral promoters in primary cultures of rat mammary epithelial cells were studied using a particle bombardment gene transfer method. NIH 3T3 cells were also examined as a representative cell line. Initially, the conditions necessary for efficient gene transfer using particle bombardment were determined. Discharge voltage for particle bombardment was evaluated to maximize the levels of gene expression and cell viability. After transfection, transgene expression decreased over a 5-day period in both mammary cells and NIH 3T3 cells. Particle bombardment gene transfer was at least fivefold more efficient than lipofection, calcium phosphate co-precipitation, or electroporation. The activity of five viral enhancer/promoters was compared using a luciferase gene assay system. The relative promoter strengths in mammary cells were determined to be: RSV  CMV  SV40 > MLV > MMTV. Tissue-specific activity of the MMTV-LTR was demonstrated, although this promoter conferred the lowest expression level among the promoters tested. 
4296144|A new murine mammary tumor cell line (BALB/c-MC) was established from a spontaneous mammary tumor in a 17-mo.-old female mouse of the low mammary cancer strain BALB/cHe. The cell line was derived from a papillary adenocarcinoma. In monolayer culture the line exhibits a pavementlike arrangement of cells and forms "domes" or "hemicysts" as the cells become confluent. The cell line rapidly forms tumors when transplanted into young syngeneic BALB/cHe mice. The subcutaneous injection of 10
4296344|AT-3 cells, one of anaplastic cell lines established from the Dunning prostatic carcinoma of rats, were able to grow under serum-free conditions in a state of suspension detached from a substratum. Radioimmunoassay using monoclonal antibody against rat insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) revealed the presence of IGF-II-related peptide in acid-ethanol extracts of lyophilized serum-free media conditioned by AT-3 cells. The peptide contents in the culture media increased with increase in cell number; 71 ng at
4296085|Little is known concerning the biological factors that control the proliferation of the stem cells of the colonic mucosa. In part this is due to a lack of systems suitable for studying the proliferation of this mucosa in vitro. We describe a simple technique for the isolation of single viable intact crypts which are free of stroma and which can then be cultured for periods of at least 16 d using a collagen gel culture method. This method of crypt isolation was efficient with the mean yield of viable intact crypts being
4296316|The present investigation was undertaken to examine the usefulness of cultured human sweat duct cells for ion transport and related studies in the genetic disease, cystic fibrosis. Electrical properties of cultured duct (CD) cells were compared with electrical properties of microperfused duct (MPD) cells. The resting apical membrane potential (V
4296552|Cell suspensions prepared by collagenase digestion of pancreata obtained from 21.5-d-old rat fetuses were preincubated in RPMI medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), to ensure cell adhesion. Twenty hours later, this medium was replaced by a chemically defined medium. Dulbecco's modified Eagle's (DME)-F12 was used alone or supplemented with various combinations of transferrin, sodium selenite, or Ultroser G. The evolution of the culture and the islet ultrastructure were similar in defined and serum-containing media. However, in the defined medium, the neoformed islets seemed less numerous, and the fibroblast layer less dense, when compared to the RPMI + 10% FBS control medium. At Day 7, in defined media, the total insulin content per dish was half that of control cultures. None of the tested additives improved the yield of the cultures. The fractional insulin release per day was elevated in defined media. In subsequent incubations, glucose and leucine stimulated insulin release in a way characteristic of these cells of fetal origin. The labeling index of islet cells cultured in DME-F12 reached 10.7%, which is not far from that observed in RPMI + 10% FBS. Such a defined medium is useful to study B cell physiology, avoiding the possible interaction of serum components with substances to be tested.
4296514| The role of epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in the stimulation of lung development by estrogen is now investigated using organ cultures of lung from male and female fetal rats taken from Days 17 to 21 of gestation. Estradiol at 1 g/ml was found to reduce cell proliferation in explants taken during a rapid growth phase (Day 18) and to stimulate surfactant synthesis in both males and females only in Day 20 explants when cell division is much slower. At this time more epithelial cells from estrogen-treated explants contained lamellar bodies, which were also secreted to fill the air sacs. These cultures also showed a significant increase in the frequency of cell-to-cell contacts between epithelial cells and fibroblasts. Uptake of tritiated estradiol by explants increased from Day 18 onward, and by autoradiography, labeling was located predominantly over fibroblasts. Using pure cultures of fetal and adult cells, uptake of labeled estradiol was significantly higher in fibroblasts than in corresponding epithelial cells, and estradiol did not directly enhance palmitate incorporation into epithelial cells. The results suggest that the earlier maturation and increased surfactant synthesis in female fetal lung is related at least in part to enhanced binding of estrogen by the fibroblast with subsequent transfer of a maturation factor to the fetal epithelium. 
4296312| The growth rate of spontaneously transformed BALB/3T3 cells is proportional to glutamine concentration between 50 and 400 M, with little or no growth occurring in less than 50 M glutamine. By contrast, nontransformed BALB/3T3 cells multiply, although slowly, with as little as 20 M glutamine. Neither cell type depletes the medium of glutamine at the low concentrations. Cystine requirements of both cell types increase with serum concentration, probably due to the binding of half-cystine residues by the serum. Calf serum is a much more potent stimulator of cell multiplication than calf lymph, especially for the nontransformed cells. The rate of cell multiplication can be reduced by lowering the concentration of essential amino acids to the physiologic level found in body fluids, but the growth limitations can be fully compensated by simply raising the serum concentration. Growth factors may act by enhancing the utilization of amino acids, particularly of glutamine which is a required substrate for the first and chief regulatory steps of purine and pyrimidine synthesis. Lymph, which is coextensive with interstitial fluid in vivo, is poor in growth factors for the nontransformed BALB/3T3 cells as well as for recently explanted mouse embryo cells, which raises questions of how normal cell growth is maintained in the body. 
20171542|The locomotory behavior of fibroblasts in two-dimensional cultures (e.g., on culture dishes, cover slips, etc.) was first reported by Abercrombie's group. This paper describes some of the features of movement of fibroblasts in a unique culture system known as sail-sheet cultures (SSCs). Cells in SSCs grow mostly on one another in a three-dimensional from that resembles, to some extent, the in vivo situation. We grew chicken heart fibroblasts (CHFs) as SSCs and studied their locomotory behavior by time-lapse filming extended for periods ranging from 12 h to several days. It was found that CHFs grown as sail-sheets exhibit many features of movement as observed in conventional two-dimensional cultures (CCs). However, we observed that CHFs in SSCs, like those in vivo, lack leading lamella directing their movement. Furthermore, locomotion is significantly slower in SSCs than in CCs. Based on data on the movement of CHFs within the mesh holes of inert grids, we suggest that the mesenchymal cells in SSCs, in addition to their individual movement, move in sheets and that their movement in sheets results in the closure of the mesh holes, a situation that resembles the phenomenon of healing of wounds. Thus SSCs provide a model system for the study of healing of wounds. The presence of collagenlike extracellular matrix (CLECM) between cellular layers in SSCs suggests that CLECM may be involved in guiding the locomotory behavior of CHFs in SSCs.
20171471| We describe the in vitro influence of 3,5,3-triiodo-L-thyronine (T), L-thyroxine (T), a thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and/or estradiol (E: chosen as the control of the methodology) on the cell kinetics (cell distribution in the S+G+M phases) of mouse MXT and human MCF-7 mammary cancer cells. Experiments were performed by means of a cell image processor, analyzing MCF-7 or MXT cells that had been grown on glass cover slips and whose nuclei had been stained by the Feulgen reaction, which is selective and quantitative (stoichiometric) with respect to DNA. We show that T, T, and TSH at 0.01 M dramatically stimulate the cell kinetics of the MXT mouse and the MCF-7 human mammary cancer cell lines. Indeed, the three hormones bring about a significant transient increase in the S+G+M fraction as does E. Furthermore, our data indicate that E and TSH are antagonistic with regards to MXT or MCF-7 cell kinetics. 
4296957| Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-), an ubiquitous regulatory peptide, has diverse effects on the differentiation and behavior of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). However, the molecular mechanism through which TGF- exerts its effects remains obscure. We investigated the phosphoinositide/protein kinase C [PKC] signaling pathway in the action of TGF- on cultured embryonic avian VSMC of differing lineage: a) thoracic aorta, derived from the neural crest; and b) abdominal aorta, derived from mesenchyme. The second messenger responsible for activation of PKC is sn-l,2-diacylglycerol [DAG]; TGF- increased the mass amounts of DAG in the membranes of neural crest-derived VSMC concurrent with translocation of PKC from the soluble to the membrane fraction, but TGF- had no effect on the DAG or PKC of mesenchyme-derived VSMC. TGF- potentiated the growth of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-treated, neural crest-derived VSMC; but abolished PDGF-induced growth of mesenchymal cells. It is concluded that molecular and functional responses of VSMC to TGF- are heterogeneous and are functions of the embryonic lineage of the VSMC. 
4295857|NIH3T3 cells grow in a serum-free basal nutrient medium supplemented with fibronectin, transferrin, insulin, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and high density lipoprotein (HDL). The individual omission from the serum-free medium of insulin, EGF, or HDL results in greatly reduced cell growth. These growth-restrictive conditions can be used to select for cells transformed with SV40, the polyomavirus middle T antigen gene, the activated human ras gene, and the mouse c-myc gene.
4296193|Highly contractile skeletal myotubes differentiated in tissue culture are normally difficult to maintain on collagen-coated tissue culture dishes for extended periods because of their propensity to detach as a sheet of cells from their substratum. This detachment results in the release of mechanical tension in the growing cell "sheet" and, consequently, loss of cellular protein. We developed a simple method of culturing high density contractile primary avian myotubes embedded in a collagen gel matrix (collagel) attached to either a stainless steel mesh or nylon support structure. With this system the cells are maintained in a highly contractile state for extended periods in vitro under tension. Structural integrity of the myotubes can be maintained for up to 10 d in basal medium without serum or embryo extract. Total cellular protein and myosin heavy chain accumulation in the cells can be maintained for weeks at levels which are two to three times those found in time-matched controls that are under little tension. Morphologically, the myotubes are well differentiated with structural characteristics of neonatal myofibers. This new collagel culture system should prove useful in the analysis of in vitro gene expression during myotube to myofiber differentiation and its regulation by various environmental factors such as medium growth factors, innervation, and mechanical activity.
4296865| A pSV3neo-transfected rat ovarian cell line (SV-GC) was developed from a primary granulosa culture (GC) to study gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) during Simian virus 40 (SV40) transformation. SV-GC expressed SV40 large T-antigen (T-ag), grew indefinitely in culture without luteinization, was anchorage independent, and formed tumors in nude mice. Ultrastructural analysis identified abundant gap junctional membrane and suggested that SV-GC was arrested at an early stage of differentiation. Functional GJIC, measured by a dye transfer technique (gap FRAP), was comparable to that observed in normal granulosa cells, suggesting that the expression of T-ag alone was insufficient to reduce GJIC. However, there was approximately a 50% loss in the rate of GJIC in the nude mouse SV-GC-tumor derived and G418 selected cell line (T-SV-GC). SV-GC  T-SV-GC also resulted in a transition from migration of cells as an epithelial sheet to the dissociation of individual fibroblastoid cells. Tumor cell detachment was also seen in migrating malignant human (A2780 and 547) and rat (DC3) ovarian cell lines. Co-culture combinations of normal (GC)  transformed (SV-GC)  tumor-derived (T-SV-GC) cells indicated that the rate of heterologous GJIC was characteristic of the least communicating partner. Taken together, these data suggested that SV-GC  T-SV-GC represented progression toward metastasis with concomitant reduction of GJIC and adhesiveness. These sequentially derived cell lines may be a useful in vitro model system for studies focusing on the mechanisms involved in the detachment of cells during the progression of ovarian cancer. 
20171380| The effect of 17-estradiol (E) on growth of GHC rat pituitary tumor cells was investigated under serum-free conditions and with medium containing charcoal-extracted serum. Serum-free TRM-1 medium was a 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of F12-DME supplemented with 50 g/ml gentamicin, 15 mM 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid, 10 g/ml insulin, 10 g/ml transferrin, 10 ng/ml selenous acid, 10 nM 3,5,3-triiodothyronine (T), 50 M ethanolamine, and 500 g/ml bovine serum albumin. The cells grew continuously in TRM-1 but were E responsive only when growth was retarded by reducing the T concentration to 10 pM (TRM-MOD). Addition of 1 to 10 nM E to TRM-MOD increased growth by 0.3 to 0.9 cell population doublings over controls in 9 d. By using medium supplemented with charcoal-extracted sera, basal growth became 1 to 1.5 cell population doublings in 9 d. Addition of 0.1 pM E to medium containing charcoal-extracted serum caused a significant increase in cell number whereas pM-nM concentrations stimulated 200 to 570% increases over controls. The effect of steroid hormone was the same in phenol-red-containing and indicator-free medium. The data presented confirm that the major requirements for demonstration of estrogenic effects in culture were optimum concentrations of thyroid hormones and the presence of yet-to-be-characterized serum factors. 
4295744|Human livers were removed at immediate autopsy (IA) from brain death patients within 1 h after cessation of cardiac function. Viable hepatocytes were isolated successfully from these IA livers by perfusion of an intack lobe with collagenase or by digestion of a small tissue wedge with collagenase-dispase. The yields of hepatocytes ranged from 1 to
20171527|A culture system utilizing rat esophageal epithelial cells has been developed. Four normal and eight N-nitrosobenzylmethylamine-treated lines were compared with respect to chromosome number, anchorage-independent growth in agarose, and tumorigenic potential in syngeneic rats. All cell lines were aneuploid with nine in the near-tetraploid range and three in the near-diploid range. No relation between tumorigenic potential and chromosome number or structure was apparent. Similarly, anchorage-independent growth in agarose did not correlate with tumorigenic potential. Three of the 12 immortalized lines (two carcinogen-treated and 1 untreated) induced well-differentiated squamous cell carcinomas in syngeneic rats. These tumors had weak metastatic potentials suggesting that tumorigenic potential and metastatic ability are separately controlled. These cell lines will be useful for the investigation of factors involved in the conversion of immortalized rat esophageal epithelial cell lines to lines of high metastatic potential.
4296940|Cultured mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells are used for both in vitro and in vivo studies. The uncommitted pluripotent cells provide a model system with which to study cellular differentiation and development; they can also be used as vectors to carry specific mutations into the mouse genome by homologous recombination. To ensure successful integration into the germ line, competent totipotent diploid ES cell lines are selected using a cell injection bioassay that is both time consuming and technically demanding. The prolonged in vitro culture of rapidly dividing ES cells can lead to accumulated changes and chromosomal abnormalities that will compromise the biological function and abrogate germ line transmission of chimeric mice carrying novel genetic mutations. Such in vitro conditions will vary between individual laboratories; for example, differences in the serums used for maintenance. Using a number of different criteria we attempt in this paper to define the parameters that we found to be key factors for optimization of the biological potential of established ES cell lines. The successful integration into the germ line is dependant on acquiring or deriving a competent totipotent mouse ES diploid cell line. In this paper parameters and criteria are defined which we found to be key factors for the optimization of the biological potential of established ES cell lines.
4296633|Interactions between pachytene spermatocytes and Sertoli cells were investigated using the bicameral culture chamber system. Pachytene spermatocytes were isolated from adult rats with a purity in excess of 90% by centrifugal elutriation. The pachytene spermatocytes were cultured in a defined media and pachytene spermatocyte protein prepared from the conditioned media by dialysis and lyophilization. This pachytene spermatocyte protein was reconstituted at various concentrations and incubated with confluent epithelial sheets of immature Sertoli cells cultured in bicameral chambers. Pachytene spermatocyte protein stimulated secretion of total
4296351| Cross-culture contamination of cell lines propagated in continuous culture is a frequent event and particularly difficult to resolve in cells expressing similar phenotypes. We demonstrate that DNA-DNA hybridization to blotted endonuclease-digested cell DNA effectively detects cross-culture contamination to monitor inter-species as well as intra-species cross contamination. An insulin-producing cell-line, Clone-16, originally cloned from a human fetal endocrine pancreatic cell line did not produce human c-peptide as anticipated. DNA from these cells showed no hybridization to the human ALU sequence probe, BLUR, and lacked restriction fragment length polymorphism typical for the human HLA-DQ -chain gene. Although a human insulin gene probe showed a weak, nonhuman hybridization pattern, a cDNA probe for the Syrian hamster insulin gene hybridized strongly consistent with a single copy hamster insulin gene. Karyotyping confirmed the absence of human chromosomes in the Clone-16 cells while sizes, centromere indices, and banding patterns were identical to Syrian hamster fibroblasts. We conclude that the insulin-producing Clone-16 cells are of Syrian hamster origin and demonstrate the effective use of gene probes to control the origin of cell cultures. 
4296020|Sodium butyrate, at millimolar concentrations, seems to mediate or initiate multiple effects on many mammalian cells in culture. Although many transformed cell lines respond to butyrate treatment with acquisition of normal cellular characteristics, the effect of butyrate on a normal cell type, the parenchymal hepatocyte, has not been studied. Serum-free primary cultures of adult rat hepatocytes maintain many adult characteristics, yet after several days in culture a loss of adult characteristics occurs while fetal characteristics are often reexpressed. Therefore, we investigated whether butyrate treatment would improve the morphologic and biochemical characteristics of cultured hepatocytes. Exposure to 5 mM butyrate for 3 d did not affect hepatocyte viability or morphology but retarded the progressive decline in cytochrome P-450 levels and 5'-nucleotidase activity. The spontaneous increase in alkaline phosphatase activity was reduced and the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase was inhibited after 3 d in culture. The fetal liver characteristic, gamma glutamyltranspeptidase, was not affected by butyrate treatment. Results of this study suggest that butyrate represents a nontoxic compound capable of improving the maintenance of cell culture characteristics of adult rat hepatocytes.
4296598|Cultures of normal human tracheal gland epithelial cells that exhibit functional differentiation have been propagated in serum-free medium supplemented with insulin (
4296460|We have developed an in vitro model of human papillary collecting duct cells isolated from cadaver kidneys using methods similar to those we previously reported for the isolation of human proximal tubule cells. To date we have isolated papillary collecting duct cells from 100 normal human kidneys. Papillae were dissected and digested in Cellgro containing 400 U/ml collagenase. Cells were plated on fibronectin-coated culture flasks at a density of 10
4296656|The leukemia-associated antigen CD9 is present on a variety of normal cells, with apparent variable expression on normal human fibroblasts. In this study, we demonstrate by immunoperoxidase staining and direct binding studies that the CD9 antigen is uniformly expressed on normal human fibroblasts grown from first trimester and term placenta, embryonic fetal fibroblasts, and from human adult and fetal skin fibroblasts. Higher CD9 expression was present on fetal cells. CD9 antigen was not present on trophoblast. Over 99% of fibroblasts could be absorbed onto antibody to the CD9 antigen conjugated to magnetic beads. By applying this selective immunoadsorption of fibroblasts to term placental cytotrophoblast preparations, we demonstrated that fibroblast contamination could be nearly completely eliminated. This is a novel technique for purifying primary trophoblast cultures and may have wider applicability in cell culture of other cell types.
4296271| A tissue culture system has been developed which can mechanically stimulate cells growing on a highly elastic plastic substratum in a 24-well cell growth chamber. The collagen-coated substratum to which the cells attach and grow in the Mechanical Cell Stimulator (Model I) can be repetitively stretched and relaxed by stepper motor with linear accuracy of 30 m. The activity controlling unit is an Apple He computer interfaced with the cell growth chamber via optical data links and is capable of simulating many of the mechanical activity patterns that cells are subjected to in vivo. Primary avian skeletal myoblasts proliferate and fuse into multinucleated myotubes in this set-up in a manner similar to normal tissue culture dishes. Under static culture conditions, the muscle cells differentiate into networks of myotubes which show little orientation. Growing the proliferating muscle cells on a unidirectional stretching substratum causes the developing myotubes to orient parallel to the direction of movement. In contrast, growing the cells on a substratum undergoing continuous stretch-relaxation cycling orients the developing myotubes perpendicular to the direction of movement. Neither type of mechanical activity significantly affects the rate of cell proliferation or the rate of myoblast fusion into myotubes. These results indicate that during in vivo skeletal muscle organogenesis, when substantial mechanical stresses are placed on skeletal muscle cells by both continuous bone elongation and by spontaneous contractions, only bone elongation plays a significant role in proper fiber orientation for subsequent functional work. 
4295914|F9 cells maintained in culture were shown to have a reduced ability to differentiate. The cells produced decreased amounts of alphafetoprotein when induced with retinoic acid. We show that consistent responses can be recovered after passage of F9 cells as a tumor. In addition, optimal differentiation of F9 cells to visceral endoderm may be achieved by the addition of very low concentrations of dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) to the medium.
20171562|Dispersed testicular cells prepared from 14-d-old rats were cultured on type 1 collagen gels using a medium composed of a 1:1 mixture of Ham's F12 medium and Leibovitz's L15 medium (F12-L15 medium) containing 10% (vol/vol) fetal bovine serum. The viability of the spermatogenic cells was facilitated by supplementing a rat adrenal extract into the medium. The effective substance(s) (the survival factor) was purified from acid extracts of adrenals by molecular sieve high performance liquid chromatography and identified as epinephrine and norepinephrine. Both epinephrine and norepinephrine promoted the survival of the spermatogenic cells with a half saturating dose of 10 ng/ml. The spermatogenic cells, which could be cultured for 2 wk on a collagen gel by supplementing with the survival factor (epinephrine or norepinephrine), were subjected to Giemsa staining and to DNA flow cytometry. The following results were obtained: a) The spermatogenic cells from 14-d-old rats did not contain spermiogenic cells (1c-cells). b) During a culture period of 2 to 7 d the ratio of meiotic prophase spermatocytes (4c-cells) to premeiotic cells (2c-cells) increased. On Day 7, more than 90% of the surviving cells were meiotic prophase spermatocytes. c) On Day 10, spermatids (1c-cells) appeared for the first time. The time of the first appearance of spermatids in the culture was consistent with that in vivo. These results suggest that both epinephrine and norepinephrine facilitated the viability of meiotic prophase spermatocytes and that a part of the meiotic prophase spermatocytes completed the meiotic divisions in the testicular cell culture.
4295786|Porous hydroxyapatite ceramic granules (diameter 0.5-1 mm) provide an excellent in vitro matrix for cell growth. Canine chondrocytes maintained their collagen (Type II) phenotype up to 11 mo when cultured on these granules. Chondrocytes proliferated throughout the 13 mo of culture. Cells divided and added on to form multilayers around each ceramic granule. By the end of 11 mo, some layers were thicker than the diameter of the granules. Cell number per culture dish increased 240-fold over the original number of cells seeded in 8 mo of culture. Morphologically, chondrocytes remained spherical and formed cohesive multilayers as early as 1 wk. Metachrometric extracellular matrix was evident by the first week and increased through the 13 mo period.
4296485|The present study deals with a rapid and convenient assay for blood-brain barrier (BBB(-associated enzymes, -glutamyl transpeptidase (-GTP) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP), in cultured endothelial cells and other cells. These enzyme activities in cultured cells could be efficiently measured by direct incubation of each substrate in the culture plates without pretreatment of the cells. This new direct in situ-in plate assay was more rapid and convenient than conventional ex-plate assays, and these assays gave similar values for specific enzyme activities. -GTP and ALP activities could be detected by this in situ method in primary-cultured endothelial cells of porcine brain microvessels, but their levels were lower than those before culture. The degree of loss due to culture differed between -GTP and ALP; a relatively large amount of ALP remained but the -GTP level decreased greatly. In this direct in situ-in plate assay, cultured porcine aortic endothelial cells exhibited negligibly small activities for both enzymes, whereas cultured astroglial cells of neonatal porcine brain showed moderate -GTP activity and a trace of ALP activity. This direct in situ-in plate assay can be used for microculture and automatic measurement and offers a convenient means for studying the possible regulatory mechanisms of the expression of the BBB-associated enzymes.
4296251|Isolated rat hepatocytes maintained in primary culture on gas permeable membrane for 20 h form monolayers and establish at their cell borders a network of canaliculi (approximate diameter
4295913|A new feline lymphoma-derived cell line, designated BKD, was isolated from an anterior mediastinal tumor. Cells of this line were characterized as lymphoid based on morphology, the lack of intracellular esterase and peroxidase activity, and absence of phagocytic function. In contrast with other established feline lymphoma-derived cell lines, cells of the BKD line lack characteristics of both feline T-cells and B-cells in that they neither form rosettes with guinea pig erythrocytes nor have demonstrable surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulin. Approximately one third of BKD cells form EAC rosettes, a significant number of rosette forming cells (p = 0.0001) when compared to background sheep E-rosetting activity. In addition, a consistently titratable level of interleukin-2-like activity was produced when BKD cells were coincubated with concanavalin A and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate. Chromosome analysis showed that a majority of BKD cells are diploid. This new cell line has been continuously replicating in culture for over one year and produces feline leukemia virus as demonstrated by several analyses.
4295887|To date, the small size and slow growth of eosinophil colonies in vitro has hampered study of cloned eosinophils. We found enhanced eosinophil colony size and numbers in methylcellulose cultures of bone marrow cells utilizing defined supplemented bovine calf serum (DSBCS) in combination with EL4 conditioned medium (EL4-CM). At days 9, 16 and 23 significantly more eosinophil colonies and more cells/colony were present in cultures incubated with DSBCS/EL4-CM than in cultures incubated with fetal calf serum/EL4-CM. The ability to generate large numbers of eosinophils in vitro should facilitate study of cloned eosinophils.
4296977|Explants and dissociated cells from normal adult spinal cord and regenerating cord of the teleost Apteronotus albifrons were grown in vitro for periods of 8 to 12 wk. During this time the neurons showed extensive neurite outgrowth. Neurite outgrowth from tissue explants and dissociated cells of regenerated spinal cord starts sooner and is more profuse than that from normal (unregenerated) cord. Neurite outgrowth is maximized by using adhesive substrata and a high density of explants or dissociated cells. Inasmuch as Apteronotus does regenerate its spinal cord naturally after injury, whereas mammals do not, this culture system will be useful to study factors that control (permit) regeneration of spinal neurons in this adult vertebrate.
4296121|Using both normal and transformed rat liver epithelial cells to prepare cytoplasmic hybrids (cybrids) we have found evidence to support the theory that the cytoplasm from a normal cell can suppress tumorigenicity. A unique aspect of this study is that all of the cells utilized, both normal and malignantly transformed, were derived from an original cloned cell. We found that fusing cytoplasts from normal cells to malignantly transformed whole cells resulted in cybrid clones which, when injected into newborn rat pups, isogenic with those from which the cell culture was initiated, yielded tumors in 51% of the animals injected compared to 92% of the animals injected with the tumorigenic parent. Those animals that did develop tumors from the cybrid cells survived longer than those injected with cells from the tumorigenic parent. Thus, the cybrid, formed of cytoplasm from both parents, was less tumorigenic than the malignantly transformed parent cell. When reconstituted cells were prepared by fusing cytoplasts from normal cells with karyoplasts from malignantly transformed cells, a situation in which essentially all of the cytoplasm of the reconstituted cell is derived from normal cells, the tumorigenic phenotype was extinguished.
4295951|Acinar-intercalated duct complexes dissociated from rat submandibular glands have been shown to be an excellent model for studying secretory responses of salivary gland components. However, they are functionally normal for only a few hours. We undertook a systematic manipulation of primary culture conditions in an attempt to extend the useful life of the complexes. The major modifications that were tested were increased oxygenation in increments to 95%; substitution of norepinephrine or carbamylcholine or both for isoproterenol in the medium; different sources of collagen for and addition of laminin, fibronectin and/or type IV collagen to the matrix gel; and varying the thickness of the collagen gel, richness of the cell suspension inoculate, and sources and concentrations of sera in the medium. Progress was monitored by light microscopic evaluation of routine sections of specimens until improved maintenance of acinar and other cells warranted carrying parallel cultures for biochemical, histochemical, and ultrastructural analyses. Best results were obtained with
4296187|We used an in vitro fertilization system to examine the effects of postovulatory oocyte age on nondisjunction at the second meiotic division. After ovulatory-inducing injections of hormone, we recovered mouse oocytes either at the estimated time of ovulation (controls) or 2, 4, 5, 10, or 14 h later. Oocytes were subjected to an in vitro fertilization procedure, and chromosomal preparations were made from first cleavage metaphase eggs. The first cleavage assay reveals morphologically distinguishable paternal and maternal chromosomes. Many of the aged oocytes were activated rather than fertilized by the in vitro procedure, but could still be analyzed for nondisjunction. We found a tendency toward retention of the second polar body after 10 and 14 h aging. A total of 488 maternal genomes, 290 of which were in the control group, were analyzable for nondisjunction. Seven hyperhaploid genomes (2.4%) were observed in the controls and 6 (3.0%) in the combined aged group. The difference between these two frequencies is not significant (
4296473| Previous studies have shown that cell density can regulate the binding of several growth factors. To determine whether cell density exerts a uniform effect on the expression of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors, seven cell lines were examined in detail. For each cell line, EGF binding was found to decrease as cell density increases. Scatchard analysis of the binding data reveals that decreases in EGF binding are due to reductions in the number of cell surface EGF receptors. The only apparent exception is the effect of cell density on the binding of EGF to A-431 cells. For these cells, increases in cell density lead to two effects: decreases in the number of high affinity EGF receptors and increases in the total number of EGF receptors. In addition to the effects of cell density on EGF receptors, it was determined that increases in cell density can coordinately down-regulate receptors for as many as four different growth factors. Overall, the findings described in this report for EGF and those previously described for transforming growth factor type- (TGF-) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) demonstrate the existence of a common mechanism for down-regulating growth factor receptors. 
4296668|A panel of rat colon adenocarcinoma cell lines (the Per series) were used to investigate the phenotype and karyotype changes induced by in vivo passage in the subcutis of athymic nude mice. One poorly and one well-differentiated tumor cell line were serially passaged through the athymic nude mouse and then back to the syngeneic rat host. Each of the primary and xenograft cell lines expressed fetal crypt cell ("CaCo") antigens. The well differentiated primary and xenograft lines (Per305, Per305Nl, and Per305N2a) were different in each of their growth factor reponsiveness in vitro [i.e. epidermal growth factor (EGF), bombesin, vasoactive intestinal peptide], their EGF receptor expression, their secretion of transforming growth factor-a, and their exhibition of anchorage independent (A-I) growth capabilities. The poorly differentiated primary and xenograft cell lines were also different but were all capable of A-I growth; their responsiveness to exogenous growth factor stimulation decreased with progressive in vivo passage, as did their basal unstimulated proliferation rate. Cytogenetic alterations detected were those associated with clinical specimens from various stages of malignancy, i. e. aneuploidy, structural aberrations, and marker chromosomes. Genetic and mitogenic individuality of each line demonstrated the diversity of the growth control mechanisms in neoplasms at different stages of progression.
4295910| The tumor promotor 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) was examined for its ability to induce endogenous retrovirus from a high-passage clone of Kirsten sarcoma virus-transformed Balb/c (K-Balb) mouse cells. TPA activated virus in a concentration-dependent manner (0.0016 to 4.0 M). Exposure to 1mM actinomycin D inhibited virus induction, suggesting that cellular RNA synthesis is required de novo by this inducer. A broad-spectrum neutralizing antibody to murine type C virus, gp70, was shown to neutralize the infectivity of the induced virus. The activated virus had the host range of the xenotropic Balb virus:2, and after removal of the inducer, the activated state decayed rapidly. TPA stimulated DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis in K-Balb cells, indicating that the mechanism of induction may be different from that of previously identified virus inducers. The effects observed using the well-defined K-Balb system offer an opportunity to study the modulation of retrovirus gene expression by TPA. 
20171446|Thirty-five years ago Honor Fell and Edward Mellanby were studying effects of high doses of vitamin A on skeletal development in chick embryos when they noticed that a piece of epidermis, accidentally included in an organ culture, had undergone mucous metaplasia. Further studies by Fell and others eventually led to an understanding of the important role of vitamin A in modulating epithelia in vivo. Fifteen years later another organ culture experiment showed me that excess vitamin A could also initiate the morphogenesis of branching and mucus-secreting glands from developing vibrissa follicles in upper lip skin of embryonic mice. Since then our group has shown that induction of this novel structure by naturally occurring retinoids resembles a normal embryonic induction in that it is stage-dependent, time-dependent, and irreversible. Tissue separation and recombination studies showed that isolated upper lip epidermis can form these glands when combined with retinoid-treated upper lip dermis. Untreated mouse epidermis can form similar glands after combination with chick dermis containing higher retinoid levels. The hamster cheek pouch, normally devoid of glandular structures, can also form mucous glands when treated with a retinoid, either in vivo or in vitro. Recombination studies in organ culture have now shown that mesenchyme exposed to retinoid is essential for gland morphogenesis from pouch epithelium. Evidence is accumulating that retinoic acid may even be the active morphogen in some normally developing systems.
4296863|The distributions of acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) and basic FGF (bFGF) in extracts of various cultured mammalian cells were determined from their elution profiles on heparin-affinity chromatography, and assay of activity as ability to stimulate DNA synthesis in BALB/c3T3 cells. Only aFGF was found in extracts of mouse melanoma B 16 cell and rat Morris hepatoma cell (
4296754|We investigated the regulation of expression of bFGF and aFGF in cultures of normal human dermal fibroblasts grown in a defined, serum-free medium which did not contain FGF. Under these conditions we detected three molecular weight forms of bFGF protein [18.0, 23.0, and 26.6 kiloDaltons (kD)] and three molecular weight forms of aFGF protein (18.4, 19.2, and 28.6 kD) in these cells using western blot analysis. The addition of fetal bovine serum (FBS) to these cultures caused an accumulation of all three molecular weight forms of bFGF protein with a more dramatic accumulation of the 23.0 and 26.6 kD forms. In contrast, the addition of FBS to the cultures had no effect on the level of aFGF proteins. Analysis of mRNA isolated from cells grown in serum-free medium revealed multiple species of both bFGF and aFGF RNA with molecular weights that correlated with our previous observations. The abundance of all bFGF mRNA species increased dramatically after serum treatment while the abundance of aFGF mRNA species increased only slightly. Our observations demonstrate that factor(s) present in FBS elevate the levels of bFGF mRNA and protein beyond the levels already present in the cultures growing in serum-free medium. Moreover, both bFGF and aFGF protein are present in these cells as multiple molecular weight species. Some of these forms are higher in apparent molecular weight than would be predicted from ATG-initiated primary translation products of these genes. We also show that the cells used for this study proliferate in response to bFGF and aFGF, thus, it is possible that the growth of these cells could be subject to autocrine/paracrine control in certain conditions.
4296487|Rabbit 1-cell embryos were co-cultured with rabbit oviduct epithelial cells (ROEC) to determine if ROEC can enhance embryo development in vitro. Primary ROEC were cultured in serum-free media at <tex-math>$39\textdegree C$</tex-math> in a 5% CO<sub>2</sub>:95% air environment. In experiment 1, 1-cell embryos were co-cultured in Ham's F10 with freshly collected or 4-d-old cultures of ROEC seeded in plastic culture wells or on collagen membranes. One-cell embryos cultured without ROEC served as controls. After 65 h in culture, embryos were stained with Hoechst 33342 to determine the number of cells per embryo. Cell numbers were higher (P < 0.035) in all co-culture treatments when compared to controls. Optimal development was obtained by co-culture with 4-d-old ROEC grown on plastic (P < 0.003). In experiment 2, Ham's F10, Medium 199, and CZB with glucose medium were compared for their ability to support embryo development in the presence or absence of 4-d-old ROEC grown on plastic. Cell number and the percentage of embryos becoming blastocysts were significantly (P < 0.002) higher for embryos cultured in Medium 199 compared to the other media tested. In Medium 199, co-culture with ROEC resulted in only a slight, nonsignificant increase in cell number over culture in Medium 199 alone (110 vs. 96 cells). However, the percentage of embryos reaching the blastocyst stage when co-cultured in Medium 199 with ROEC (49%) was nearly twice (P = 0.01) that of embryos in Medium 199 without ROEC (26%). In experiment 3, transfer of embryos cultured in Medium 199 with or without ROEC fo 24 or 48 h resulted in no significant differences in posttransfer development. These data indicate a beneficial effect of ROEC on blastogenesis and a salvage effect of ROEC on cell proliferation in embryos grown in a less supportive medium such as Ham's F10.
4296042| We have identified a major mouse milk protein as transferrin (Tf) using immunoprecipitation, 2-dimensional electrophoresis, Ouchterlony diffusion and V-8 protease digests. We show that Tf is synthesized by mammary epithelial cells themselves and that its synthesis and secretion is regulated distinctly from that of other milk proteins. In culture, the kinetics of Tf synthesis and secretion are distinct from that of -casein; furthermore, Tf is relatively insensitive to lactogenic hormones whereas -casein is hormone-dependent. In vivo, however, Tf is regulated by pregnancy. While the virgin gland produces small amounts of Tf, its production is greatly increased during pregnancy and lactation. Thus, Tf synthesis in the mammary gland is modulated by as yet unknown factors in vivo. These observations are discussed in terms of Tf's possible role in mammary gland growth, differentiation and function. 
4296808|Using in situ hybridization and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) cDNA probes labeled with horseradish peroxidase, PDGF-A and -B (c-cis proto-oncogene) mRNA transcripts were identified and localized in proliferating cultures. A human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell line and a glial cell line were treated with either transforming growth factor beta-1 (
4296303|Somatic embryos from four soybean cultivars were matured for 30 and 45 d. Success of embryo germination was evaluated for each length of maturation. The percentage of somatic embryos undergoing successful germination, as defined by rooting and shoot emergence, was greater for embryos matured 45 d than for embryos matured 30 d. Therefore, embryos matured for 45 d are probably physiologically more mature than embryos matured for 30 d. Relative percentages of fatty acids comprising oils and lipids of somatic embryos were determined for each length of maturation and for each cultivar. Variation in relative percentages of palmitic acid, oleic acid, and linoleic acid was affected by length of maturation. However, these changes were genotype dependent. A significant interaction between the cultivars Clark and Maple Arrow and stage of maturation was observed for levels of oleic acid. No other interactions were observed. These data suggest that if changes in relative percentages of certain fatty acids are associated with soybean somatic embryo maturation the changes are genotype dependent.
4295928|The growth of WI-38 cells in serum-free growth medium with and without hormone supplementation in the presence of elevated Ca
4296463|A culture system for adult rat cardiac muscle cells has been established without exposure of cells to serum at any step of the procedure. The methodology has been standardized and optimized to obtain better quality and high yield of cells and culture. Subsequent to enzyme perfusion, the release of myocytes from enzyme-perfused tissues was carried out in enzyme-free Joklik's medium instead of exposing cells to proteolytic enzyme(s) as done previously. Approximately 5 million cylindrical muscle cells per ventricle were obtained. The culture medium contained Eagle's minimum essential medium with Earle's salts, basic fibroblast growth factor, epidermal growth factor, insulin, transferrin, selenium, norepinephrine, triiodothyronine (T
4296360|An endothelial cell glycoprotein that inhibits the initiation of the coagulation process promoted by tissue factor has been isolated by heparin-sepharose, hydroxyapatite and gel filtration chromatography. As is the case for several other species synthesized by this cell type, the N-linked carbohydrate moiety is sulfated. The identification of this inhibitor hints at the possible existence of a functional balance, between the activator of the coagulation cascade and its inhibitor, which may become perturbed in various pathophysiological conditions.
4296590| Novel or modified serum-free media were developed for the anchorage-dependent growth of nontransformed murine mammary epithelial cells (MMEC) and Balb/MK murine keratinocytes respectively. Growth rates for both cell lines were similar in serum-containing and serum-free media. The serum-free media were used to evaluate potential mechanisms of epithelial cell growth regulation by type 1 transforming growth factor  (TGF-l). The growth of MMEC and Balb/MK cells was reversibly inhibited 40-65% in a time- and dose-dependent fashion by TGF-l under both serum-containing and serum-free conditions. Constitutive over-expression of a transfected c-myc oncogene in MMEC did not result in loss of sensitivity to growth inhibition by TGF-l. In addition, Balb/MK and MMEC growth inhibition by TGF-l was not potentiated by polyunsaturated fatty acids or reversed by vitamin E. Exogenous type V collagen was able to mimic the inhibitory effects of TGF-1 on the serum-free growth of Balb/MK and MMEC. In contrast, collagen types I and IV, fibronectin and laminin did not inhibit the growth of these cells. The type V collagen used was not contaminated with TGF-, and subsaturating, but not saturating concentrations of type V collagen and TGF-l were additive with respect to Balb/MK and MMEC growth inhibition. These results demonstrate that nontransformed epithelial cell growth inhibition by TGF-1 is mediated by mechanisms distinct from those observed with certain carcinoma and melanoma cells. Our results also suggest the possible involvement of type V collagen in Balb/MK and MMEC growth inhibition by TGF-1. 
4296546|Pharyngeal explants and circulatory hemocytes from the tunicate Styela clava were cultured in a medium containing tunicate plasma, artificial seawater, RPMI 1640, and antibiotics. Pharyngeal tissue remained viable and proliferated for up to 72 d in vitro. Proliferative activity maintained the pool of hemocytes within explants and facilitated the migration of pharyngeal hemocytes from explants into culture supernatants. The diversity of morphologically distinct cell types within the hemocyte pool of pharyngeal cultures indicated that cell division was followed by regulated differentiation. In contrast to pharyngeal cultures, suspensions of circulatory hemocytes did not survive for prolonged periods in vitro. Proliferative activity could not be detected in circulatory hemocyte cultures. These results are discussed in terms of the differentiation state of hemocytes and the efficacy of culture conditions.
4296908|Nerve growth factor (NGF) binding sites on rat hepatocytes (HCs) in culture for 24 to 48 h were characterized using
4296702|A serum-free culture system supplemented with neural tissue extract for normal and tumor human esophagi was applied to the culture of mouse esophageal epithelium. Similar to mouse mesenchyme and skin epithelium, esophageal epithelial lines (MEE) emerged after serial culture. The cells had an apparent unlimited life span but retained morphology and other characteristics of normal epithelial cells. The cells formed a small cyst consisting of keratined squamous epithelium in syngenic hosts. A screen for growth factors that stimulated growth of the nonmalignant MEE cells in the absence of neural extract revealed that epidermal growth factor (EGF) and heparin-binding (fibroblast) growth factors (HBGF) were most effective. An HBGF-like activity was apparent in extracts of rapidly proliferating but not quiescent MEE cells at low or confluent densities. A cloned cell line (MEE/C8) was selected from MEE cell cultures in the absence of neural extract. MEE/C8 cells proliferated independent of either EGF or HBGF at rates equal to MEE cells, cell extracts exhibited HBGF-like activity at all stages of proliferation, and the cells formed large invasive tumors in syngenic hosts. The HBGF-like activity present in extracts of tumorigenic MEE/C8 and proliferating nonmalignant MEE cells had properties similar to HBGF-1 (acidic fibroblast growth factor). These results constitute a cultured mouse esophageal epithelial cell model for study of conversion of immortalized premalignant cells to malignant cells, and suggest that conversion from a state of cell cycle-dependent autocrine expression of one or more members of the HBGF family to a state of constitutive expression correlates with and may contribute to malignancy.
4296848| Myofibroblasts from human breast carcinomas were identified and experimentally generated in culture, and a possible function was examined. The frequency of -smooth muscle actin immunoreactive cells was evaluated as a measure of myofibroblast differentiation in primary culture. Few or no -smooth muscle actin-positive stromal cells (6.1  8.4%) were identified in primary cultures from normal breast tissue (n = 9). In contrast, high frequencies (68.8  15.1%) were observed in primary cultures from carcinomas (n = 19). The frequencies of myofibroblasts in primary cultures were almost identical to those obtained in the corresponding cryostat sections (69.1 vs. 68.8%). A possible precursor cell to the myofibroblast was looked for among typical fibroblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells. Purified blood vessels containing both fibroblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells were embedded in collagen gel and incubated with medium conditioned by breast epithelial cells. Fibroblasts rather than smooth muscle cells were recruited from the blood vessels. In medium conditioned by carcinoma cell lines or in co-cultures of carcinoma cell lines and purified fibroblasts, -smooth muscle actin and the typical myofibroblast phenotype were induced in otherwise -smooth muscle actin-negative fibroblasts. The effect of myofibroblasts on cellular movement-essential to neoplastic cells-was analyzed. Spontaneous motility of tumor cells (MCF-7) was entirely suppressed in a collagen gel assay. Under these conditions tumor cell motility was selectively mediated by direct cell-to-cell interaction between tumor cells and myofibroblasts. Under chemically defined conditions, interaction was dependent on the presence of plasminogen. Anti-plasminogen, soybean trypsin inhibitor, and anti-fibronectin partly neutralized the effect of plasminogen. It is concluded that elements of myofibroblast differentiation and function may be studied in culture. 
4295989|Several established cell lines from different classes of vertebrates were assayed for the presence of
4296684|Fibroblastlike primary cells have been obtained from human colon adenocarcinoma explants. Such cells disappear during cell culture and thus have not been previously studied. These cells have a number of altered phenotypic characteristics: a) morphology; b) growth behavior and adherence to culture substrate (they required 3 h for 90% attachment and only presented a flattened morphology 40 h after platting); and c) collagen metabolism. Increased protein biosynthesis (about double than control colon-derived fibroblasts) and maintained ability for collagen biosynthesis have been observed for the tumor-associated fibroblastlike cells. Thus, the collagen to noncollagenous proteins ratio was decreased for these cells. They exhibited an altered type I:type III collagen (5:1 instead of 3:1 in colon fibroblasts) and procollagen (2:1 against 5:1 in colon fibroblasts) ratios as well as a decreased secretion of collagen with an abnormal deposition of procollagens in the cell layer. These studies show a permanent phenotypic alteration in the tumor-associated fibroblast-like cells.
4296716|A cell line was established from an anaplastic astrocytoma from a 69-yr-old female. The cells have been serially subcultured over 300 times for 6 yr without showing any sign of cell senescence. Their doubling time is about 36 h. The cells are fusiform and often hexagonal in sparse culture, but become spindle-shaped and formed mosaic structure in confluent culture. Under electron microscopy, intermediate filaments were randomly distributed in the cytoplasma, especially in the perinuclear space. The chromosome number was near tetraploid and varied from 86 to 94 chromosomes with a modal number of 91. The alpha and beta subunits of S-100 protein, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which are reliable markers of astrocytic cells, were demonstrated in a large number of cells by immunoperoxidase staining. The results of immunoblotting showed that the expression of vimentin was much higher than that of GFAP. The tumorigenicity of the cells was revealed by xenografting into nude mice, which were X-irradiated before inoculation. Culture medium conditioned by the cells promoted growth of these cells in serum-free conditions and of normal rat glial cells in serum-depleted culture. The growth-promoting effect of conditioned medium was lost by trypsinization and reduced by boiling. These findings suggest that these cells are derived from neoplastic astrocytic cells and secrete a self-acting polypeptide growth-promoting factor into the culture medium.
4296798|Growth hormone (GH) production by
4296831|We previously demonstrated that human keratinocyte cultures proliferate in the absence of polypeptide growth factors (autonomous growth) and that this autonomous growth is blocked by interaction of heparin with a human keratinocyte-de- rived autocrine factor (KAF) which we identified as amphiregulin (AR). In the present study, we demonstrate that sulfated polysaccharides other than heparin (low and high molecular weight dextran sulfates) also inhibit the AR-mediated autonomous proliferation of human keratinocytes. Furthermore, sulfated polysaccharides such as high and low molecular weight dextran sulfates, heparan sulfate and, to a lesser extent, chondroitin sulfates B and C were also shown to be inhibitors of human keratinocyte-derived AR (k-d AR)-stimulated DNA synthesis in quiescent murine AKR-2B cell cultures. Our results demonstrate that sulfation of polysaccharides is required for AR inhibitory activity, and that several sulfated polysaccharides (other than heparin) can act as inhibitors of AR-mediated autonomous proliferation in human epidermal keratinocytes and as inhibitors of k-d AR-mediated mitogenic activity in AKR-2B cells.
4296943|Exposure to hyperglycemia slows the rate of proliferation of cultured human endothelial cells. Recently, it has been reported that glucose may autoxidize generating free radicals which have been hypothesized to delay cell replication time. To test whether oxidative stress has an effect on delaying cell replication time in hyperglycemic conditions, human endothelial cells cultured from umbilical veins were incubated in 5 or 20 mill glucose, either alone or in the presence of one of three different antioxidants: Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione (GSH). Cells grown in medium with 5 mM glucose, with or without antioxidants, yielded similar population doubling times and cell cycle phase distributions. Significantly lower growth parameters were observed in cells grown in medium with 20 mM glucose, without antioxidants. The presence of the antioxidant reverted them to almost normal growth. These data show that high glucose levels may delay endothelial cells replication time through the generation of free radicals, suggesting a possible pathophysiological linkage between the high levels of glucose and the development of microvascular complications of diabetes, possibly suggesting a new therapeutic approach to prevent such complications.
4296765|We have developed an organ culture system of the anuran small intestine to reproduce in vitro the transition from larval to adult epithelial form which occurs during spontaneous metamorphosis. Tubular fragments isolated from the small intestine of Xenopus laevis tadpoles were slit open and placed on membrane niters in culture dishes. In 60% Leibovitz 15 medium supplemented with 10% charcoal-treated serum, the explants were maintained in good condition for at least 10 days without any morphologic changes. Addition of triiodothyronine (T
4296278|A reproducible method is described for the separation and quantification of ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid by ion-pairing reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography and detection by absorbance at 232 nm. Lowest detectable concentrations with a linear response of detection were 5 nmol for ascorbic acid and 50 nmol for dehydroascorbic acid. This method was applied to the analysis of C3H/10T1/2 cells and culture medium after influx or efflux experiments and single or multiple treatments with ascorbic acid. Subsequent measurement of the radioactivity in the eluted fractions increased the detectability of both ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid to 10 to 20 pmol.
4296188| A method is described for growing high-density micromass cultures of chick and mouse limb mesenchyme cells in 96-well microtiter plates (TM cultures). Rapid quantitative estimates of chondrogenic expression were obtained by automated spectrophotometric analysis of Alcian-blue-stained cartilage matrix extracts performed in the wells in which the cells had been grown. Quantitative estimates of myogenic expression were obtained similarly using anti-sarcomere myosin monoclonal antibody and modified ELISA techniques. This TM-ELISA method may be adapted for use with other antigens for which specific antibodies are available. These methods were used to compare cartilage and muscle differentiation in 1 to 4 d TM cultures grown in serum-containing (SCM) and defined (DM) media. The DM contains minimal additives (insulin, hydrocortisone, and in some cases, ascorbate or transferrin) and supports both chondrogenesis and myogenesis. The colorimetric analyses agree well with the morphologic appraisal of chondrogenesis and myogenesis. Similar numbers of cartilage nodules formed in all cultures, but in DM the nodules failed to enlarge; explaining the reduced matrix synthesis in DM as compared with SCM, and suggesting that nodule enlargement is a discrete, serum-dependent step. Studies of selected additives to DM show that transferrin enhances myogenesis, ascorbic acid enhances chondrogenesis, and retinoic acid inhibits chondrogenesis. Together, the TM system, in situ colorimetric assays of chondrogenesis and myogenesis, and DM will allow rapid prescreening of teratogens and screening of various bioactive compounds (e.g., hormones, growth factors, vitamins, adhesion factors) for effects on limb mesenchymal cell differentiation. 
20171533|Increasing use is being made of tumor cell lines cultured as cell aggregates (generally referred to as multicellular spheroids) in in vitro radiosensitivity and/or chemosensitivity tests. Conventional procedures for the determination of mean spheroid diameters for the construction of growth delay curves employ a microscope-image analyzer. However, this approach can prove excessively time consuming when large numbers of samples have to be measured. We have, therefore, been exploring the use of a Laser Diffraction Particle Sizer, the Malvern 2600 long bench model, for the measurement of mean spheroid diameter and size distribution. We report here a direct comparison between measurements carried out by the instrument and under the microscope. Also a comparison of growth curves for six cell lines constructed from measurements by the microscope and by the instrument. A number of factors that might affect the accuracy of spheroid diameter measurement by the instrument have been investigated: The effect of stirring to maintain the spheroids in suspension during measurement. Sampling error due to removal of a series of spheroid samples from culture flasks for measurement. Optimum number of scans to be carried out by the instrument to reach a constant value for mean diameter, and minimum SE of the mean.
4296035|Segments of rat thoracic duct cultured in plasma clot or in collagen gel produced microvascular and fibroblastic outgrowths. Lymphaticlike channels (LLC) with a highly attenuated endothelium, which was barely visible by light microscopy, were found in 8 out of 25 cultures (32%). Serial histologic sections revealed that the endothelium of the LLC was continuous with the intimai endothelium of the thoracic duct and was therefore of lymphatic origin. In addition to the LLC, vascular channels lined by a thick endothelium with hump-shaped, cross-sectional profiles were found in 10 cultures (40%). These channels were indistinguishable from the microvessels of blood vascular origin that formed in parallel cultures of rat aorta or periductal adipose tissue and were termed hematiclike channels (HLC). Contrary to the LLC, the HLC did not originate from the lymphatic endothelium of the thoracic duct. The frequent association of the HLC with the adventitia of the thoracic duct and with the surrounding adipose tissue suggested that they probably developed from the hematic microvessels of the periductal soft tissues.
4295939|Lanthanum has been used effectively in studies of calcium physiology in experiments of short duration. In experiments of longer duration, we report that solutions, such as cell culture medium, containing lanthanum (
4296162|We developed a method to determine the amount of work performed by cells through cell division in 1.0% agar cultures. There was no correlation between the cloning efficiencies of 1.0 and 0.3% agar cultures. Growth in 1.0% agar cultures correlated well with such malignant properties as tumorigenicity and the invasive and metastatic potentials. Our method revealed that metastatic MC and F cell lines possess different means of taking advantage of energy to proliferate against an environmental pressure from those possesed by nontumorigenic (ME and T-C3H) cell strain/line or nonmetastatic but tumorigenic (L, MR, and
4296186|Rat hepatocytes were isolated and then maintained in serum-free cell culture medium for 24 h. The amount of malondialdehyde (MDA) accumulated in the medium was assayed and used as a measure of lipid peroxidation. The activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and urea were measured in the medium and used as indicators of hepatocellular viability and function. The effects of iron; desferrioxamine mesylate (Desferal), an iron chelator; and mannitol, a hydroxyl free radical scavenger were investigated. The addition of iron,
4296536|A widely utilized rabbit corneal cell line, SIRC, was characterized ultrastructurally and immunohistologically. Although SIRC cells are often described as being of epithelial origin, important ultrastructural and antigenic characteristics indicate that these cells are fibroblastic and not epithelial. SIRC cells lack desmosomes, cytpplasmic filaments, and cytokeratin-structures that are characteristic of corneal epithelial cells. By contrast, the dendritic morphology, presence of vimentin, and the extensive dense accumulations of ribosomes and rough endoplasmic reticulum are consistent with a fibroblastic phenotype. Collectively, the morphology, ultrastructural features, and antigenic composition favor the hypothesis that SIRC cells are fibroblastic cells (keratocytes) and not corneal epithelial cells.
4296355|A serum-free clonal density growth assay was developed for the quantification of the biological activity of human recombinant insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). The assay measures IGF-I stimulated growth of Balb/c 3T3 cells cultured over 4 d on poly-D-lysine-coated plastic surfaces in a serum-free medium formulation composed of a 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of Ham's F12 and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's media, supplemented with 3.0 ng/ml bovine basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF),
4296775|A panel of human colon carcinoma cell lines were characterized regarding both antigenic heterogeneity and variations in radiosensitivity. Monoclonal antibodies were used to study the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), gastrointestinal cancer antigen (GICA or CA 19-9) and carcinoma-associated antigen (CA-50). Radiosensitivity was studied with the clonogenic survival technique. Three cell lines, LS 174T, HCTC, and SW 1116 stained positive for all three antigens. HT-29 was positive for CA 19-9 and CA-50 whereas Caco-2 was positive for CEA and CA 19-9. The cell lines SW 620 and LIM 1215 only stained positive for one of the antigens, CA-50 and CEA, respectively. In nearly all positive cases the stainings were very heterogeneous with mixtures of positive and negative cells. One exception was the HCTC cells which stained homogeneously for the CA 19-9 and CA-50 antigens. The neuroendocrinelike COLO 320 cells were negative in all cases. The radiosensitivity varied strongly between the cell lines with
4296173| Growth of the estrogen-responsive MTW9/PL2 rat mammary tumor cells was demonstrated in serum-free defined medium (designated DDM-1) formulated with F12-DME (1:1 vol/vol) supplemented with 15 mM HEPES pH 7.4, insulin 10 ml, transferrin 10 /ml, sodium selenite 10 ng/ml, triiodo-L-thyronine 0.3 nM, phosphoethanolamine 5 M, epidermal growth factor (20 ng/ml), 17 -estradiol 2 nM, and bovine serum albumin 20 /ml. In DDM-1, the growth rate was about one-half that seen in serum-containing medium. When ethanolamine (50 M), glutathione (20 g/ml), and linoleic acid/bovine serum albumin (150 g/ml) were added (formulation DDM-2), the growth rate was 80% of serum-containing medium and not seed-density dependent. Deletion of estradiol from DDM-1 or DDM-2 had no effect on growth rate. Also, cells grown in steroid hormone deficient medium for 4 mo. continued to form estrogen-responsive tumors in rats as did cells cultured for the same period in 2 nM estradiol. To investigate autocrine growth factor secretion, a third medium (DDM-3) was prepared by deleting insulin, epidermal growth factor, phosphoethanolamine, estradiol, and both forms of bovine serum albumin from DDM-2. Growth in mitogen-free medium equaled 86% of the serum-stimulated rate and was seed-density dependent; phenol red deletion from DDM-3 had no effect on growth rate. Evidence presented suggests that autocrine factors stimulate growth of the MTW9/PL2 cells in DDM-3, and that this secretion may support the growth of estrogen-responsive cells in culture in the absence of steroid hormone. 
4295881|Cartilage was taken from the macroscopically normal part of human femoral heads immediately after orthopedic surgical operations for total prothesis consecutive to hip arthrosis. After clostridial collagenase digestion and repeated washings, chondrocytes (
20171447|A novel culture method has been developed to study the interaction of epithelial cells in the absence of a solid substratum. Starting with either a single cell suspension or aggregates, cells were floated at the interface of air and liquid culture medium. Two epithelial cell lines have been studied in this system: Madin-Darby canine kidney cells (MDCK), and a rat bladder tumor cell line (NBT-II). Starting with a single cell suspension of MDCK, the floating cells coalesced in 24 h into sheets of cells. The cells were morphologically polarized with the apical surface facing the liquid medium. Domes were observed regularly in these sheets of cells. NBT-II cells migrated actively from aggregates at the air-liquid interface. In this floating culture, NBT-II cells produced extensive cell processes similar to those seen in cells grown on a solid surface. Because cells at the air-liquid interface lack a solid substratum for adhesion, cell membrane processes such as lamellapodia, retraction fibers, pseudopods, and long, intercellular connections can only exert a tension equal to or less than the surface tension of the liquid. Dimethyl sulfoxide 2% stimulated desmosome formation in floating NBT-II cells, resulting in a cribriform pattern in the sheet of cells. This method of interface can lead to new understanding of morphogenesis of epithelial cells, and the mechanism of cell motility and formation of cell processess.
4296498|Plasma membranes isolated from HeLa cells cultivated in suspension cultures supplemented with 3.5% fetal bovine serum or 2% of the commercially available serum substitute Ultroser G contained the same amounts of protein, cholesterol, and phosphate on a cellular basis. Minor differences in the plasma membrane fatty acid composition were seen, with the most pronounced alteration observed for palmitic acid, which amounted to 27 and 20% in fetal bovine serum- and Ultroser G-supplemented cells, respectively. Plasma membranes from cells grown with Ultroser G contained almost twice as much phosphatidylethanolamine and displayed two thirds of the phosphatidylcholine content, compared to plasma membranes obtained from fetal bovine serum supplemented cells. The former membranes also showed a 3 times higher specific
20171438|To determine if fibroblasts could be a source of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) in tissue, cells were initiated in culture from newborn human foreskin. Cells were studied in Passages 2 to 8. Fibroblast cell lysates promoted radiolabeled thymidine uptake by cultured quiescent fibroblasts. Seventy-nine percent of the growth-promoting activity of lysates was recovered from heparin-Sepharose. The heparin-binding growth factor reacted on immunoblots with antiserum to human placenta-derived basic FGF and competed with iodinated basic FGF for binding to antiserum to (1-24)bFGF synthetic peptide. To confirm that fibroblasts were the source of the growth factor, cell lysates were prepared from cells incubated with radiolabeled methionine. Heparin affinity purified material was immunoprecipitated with basic FGF antiserum and electrophoresed. Radiolabeled material was detected on gel autoradiographs in the same molecular weight region as authentic iodinated basic FGF. The findings are consistant with the notion that cultured fibroblasts express basic FGF. As these cells also respond to the mitogen, it is possible that the regulation of their growth is under autocrine control. Fibroblasts may be an important source of the growth factor in tissue.
20171442|Six- and seven-day post-coitus (p.c.) rabbit embryos have been cultured in an attempt to establish a trophectodermal cell line. Results indicate that cells with epithelial characteristics (i.e. positive staining for cytokeratin) will survive in culture until Passage 3. At that time a fibroblastlike cell becomes predominant. In addition, we have found that the presence of the inner cell mass is required for trophectodermal cells from 6-d p.c. embryos to attach to the collagen substrate. Culture of 7-d p.c. embryo explants often results in the development of cells that spontaneously contract. These cells stain positively for myosin, which indicates that they may be precardiac cells. Maximum diastolic potential was -59  1.2 mV and the threshold potential was -53  2.3 mV. Spontaneously contracting cells did not respond to atropine, acetylcholine, epinephrine, isoproterenol, or propranolol. Action potential seems to be a result of an inward calcium current, because the beating rate is decreased in a dose-related manner with the calcium channel blocker verapamil, whereas the voltage-sensitive sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin was without effect.
4296029|The proliferation of isolated normal prostate epithelial cells from rat and man is androgen-independent and requires cholera toxin, insulin, dexamethasone, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and one or more polypeptide factors that are concentrated in bovine neural tissue. The active agents in the neural tissue extract are heparin-binding polypeptides (prostatropins), the predominant form of which has a molecular weight of 17400 and an acetylalanine at the aminoterminus. Prostatropins supported a half-maximal increase in normal prostate epithelial cell number at 50 picomolar. The proliferation of primary and serially-cultured epithelial cells from androgen-responsive Dunning R3327 rat prostate tumors was also androgen-independent, but exhibited dramatic alterations in response to hormones that stimulated normal cell proliferation. At low cell density, androgen-independent growth of isolated tumor-derived epithelial cells was independent on cholera toxin, was stimulated by dexamethasone, required insulin and either EGF or prostatropin. The presence of either EGF or prostatropin masked the response to the other factor. In the absence of EGF, purified prostatropins supported a half-maximal increase in tumor cell number at 7 picomolar. Endogenous production of EGF-like and prostatropin-like factors or both was suggested by the reduced requirement for EGF and prostatropin at high prostate tumor cell density. These results suggest that anti-hormonal therapies against prostate tumor growth should be based on intervention with the activity of insulin (or insulin-like factors) or simultaneous intervention with both EGF and prostatropin (or their homologues).
4296175| An electrophoretically homogeneous 63 KDa polypeptide derived from the protoxin of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki; (HD-263) caused lysis of cells from the lepidopteran cell lines TN368, IPLB-HZ1075, LD652Y, and SF21AE. The extent of cytolysis among the different cell cultures varied according to the incubation milieu, the polypeptide, and the particular cell culture studied. Preincubation of the polypeptide with either the amino sugars galactosamine, mannosamine, glucosamine, or their N-acetyl derivatives prevented cytolysis to a varying extent. Derivatives of galactose were more effective than those of mannose, followed by those of glucose. The amino sugars inhibited more efficiently than the N-acetyl derivatives. No inhibition was detected using the parent sugars. A baculovirus originally isolated from the lepidopteran Autographa californica was grown in TN368 cells and the extracellular virus (ECV) preincubated with varying concentrations of the polypeptide before assay. A concentration of 5 g/ml reduced viral infectivity 99% when assayed on TN368 cells. These results support the current thinking that at least some Bt toxins may utilize specific cell-surface glycoconjugates for initiation of their toxic action and that the numbers and types of receptors may vary with the specific cell line. Also, reduction of baculovirus ECV infectivity by Bt toxic polypeptide indicates binding to a cell-surface glycoconjugate essential for initiation of infection, whether it is the normal cell receptor or a virus-coded glycoconjugate. 
4296444|Liver epithelial cells from a young rat were cultured and passaged for a long period until they showed a malignant transformation (tumorigenicity in athymic mice), to know when an autocrine growth factor is produced in the course of a spontaneous malignant transformation of normal cells in vitro. The cells initially showed a cellular transformation and an increased growth rate, then produced an autocrine growth factor after Passage 55, and finally the cells after Passage 105 showed a malignant transformation (tumorigenicity in vivo). It is suggested that in addition to an autocrine growth factor, some other factors might be related to a malignant transformation (tumorigenicity in vivo).
4296135|Sodium-sulfate-tolerant callus of Brassica napus cv. Westar, selected on medium containing 105 mM
4296685|Primary cultures of rabbit tracheal cells were obtained as outgrowths from explants of tracheal mucosa. A 30% collagen substratum containing serum and minimal essential medium was required for obtaining an outgrowth of epithelial cells keeping their differentiated characteristics. The tracheal epithelial cells obtained near the explant in the first days of culture presented morphologic similarities with normal tracheal epithelium. Cultures contained basal cells and epithelial polarized cells that exhibited apical tight junctions and desmosomes. Ciliated cells stayed functional during all time culture. Their number slightly increased at the beginning of the culture and then stayed constant when the total number of cells increased. Development of the outgrowth was rapid and significant inasmuch as the outgrowth surface reached 30 times that of the explant after less than 8 days. This was linked to cellular proliferation, as demonstrated by the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) in phase-S nuclei and the revelation of BrdU using an immunofluorescence technique. The epithelial nature of the outgrowth cells and the absence of contamination with fibroblasts were established by positive staining with anti-keratin antibody and by negative staining with anti-vimentin antibody, respectively.
4296613|Transformation of primary cultures of human breast cells with simian virus 40 and clonal selection has yielded single-cell-cloned, epithelial cell lines, as well as myoepithelial-related cell lines. When grown on floating collagen gels, the epithelial cell lines give rise to branching rays of cells, thick fingerlike protrusions, saclike structures, and degenerating areas. The myoepithelial-related cell lines give rise only to the branching rays. Epidermal growth factor stimulates the production of the thick protrusions, whereas cholera toxin stimulates the production of the degenerating areas. Immunocytochemical staining of these cultures using reagents directed against the cell surface-extracellular matrix or the cellular cytoskeleton confirms the epithelial and myoepithelial nature of the cells, and demonstrates that the degenerating areas are undergoing squamous metaplasia. The fingerlike protrusions consist of cords of cells composed of inner, epithelial and outer, myoepithelial-related cells sometimes surrounding a central lumen reminiscent of ducts. The saclike structures resemble alveoli. Ultrastructural analysis confirms the identification of the basic cell types and also identifies indeterminate cells possessing features of both epithelial and myoepithelial cells. It is suggested that the epithelial cell lines represent human mammary stem cells that can undergo processes of morphogenesis and differentiation in vitro to form many of the three-dimensional structures found within the breast.
4296914|The effects of the simple phospholipids phosphatidic acid (PA) and lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) on the growth and function of Madin Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells has been studied. We observed that PA and LPA not only stimulated the growth of MDCK cells (at
4295735|Previous culture systems for melanocytes have employed serum-supplemented medium and uncoated plastic dishes, prohibiting examination of possible substrate influences on cellular morphology and function. We now report, using a sensitive serum-free system and a quantitative procedure for evaluating cellular morphology, that modification of the plating surface affects human epidermal melanocyte attachment rate and subsequent morphology in vitro. Melanocytes attach and spread more rapidly on surfaces coated with fibronectin or Type I/III collagen or on surfaces previously conditioned by human keratinocytes, dermal fibroblasts, melanocytes, or melanoma cells than do melanocytes on untreated control surfaces. Type IV collagen and laminin, although minimally beneficial for cell attachment, do support a characteristic melanocyte morphology that differs from that seen either on the other coated surfaces or on uncoated plastic controls. Addition of fetal bovine serum at the time of inoculation has no appreciable effect on attachment but markedly improves cell spreading on untreated surfaces, while addition of nerve growth factor with or without serum to this system fails to affect cell attachment or spreading. Our data establish that human epidermal melanocytes are indeed capable of responding morphologically to substrate signals. The ability of several biochemically unrelated surfaces to enhance melanocyte attachment rate and spreading suggests that melanocytes have surface receptors with a variety of specificities. This work is relevant to the development of improved culture systems for melanocytes in vitro and to understanding melanocyte behavior in vivo.
20171382| The roles of glucose and insulin in the promotion of DNA synthesis in pacncreatic islet cell monolayers were assessed using a variety of in vitro conditions. Several substrates including collagen, poly-l-lysine, Matrigel, and the extracellular matrix produced by cultured bovine endothelial cells (BCEM) were compared for their ability to promote monolayer growth. Islets grown on BCEM in combination with medium RPMI 1640 supplemented with 22.2 mM glucose or 10 g/ml insulin gave the best results as determined by new DNA synthesis. The new-form monolayers were free of contaminating fibroblasts. These results suggest that insulin is critical to pancreatic islet growth when the cells are attached to biocompatible matrices. 
4296881|
               
4296477|A human foreskin organ culture system has been developed to study the response of human skin to hormonal stimulation. Foreskins are maintained in culture on floating plastic supports which allows the epidermal surface to be exposed to air while the dermis is bathed in nutrient medium. Both black and white human foreskins can be maintained in organ culture for at least 1 wk with no change in the tissue structure or cell viability as determined by histochemical staining and by dopa reaction staining. Tyrosinase activity in both black and white human foreskin cultures decays markedly during the first 2 d of culture to a new steady state level which remains stable throughout the culture period. Both black and white foreskin cultures consistently demonstrate 2- to 10-fold increases in tyrosinase activity when treated with theophylline (1 mM). Approximately 90% of all skin cultures examined showed an increase in enzyme activity when treated with this phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Dibutyryl cAMP (0.1 mM) and <tex-math>$[Nle^4,D-phe^7]-alpha$</tex-math> MSH (1<tex-math>$10^{-8} M$</tex-math>), were also found to markedly stimulate tyrosinase activity in some skin cultures, whereas alpha-MSH and prostaglandin E<sub>1</sub> produced only an inconsistent and small increase in the activity of the enzyme. Histamine (1  M), vitamin D<sub>3</sub> (1  M), and retinoic acid (1  M) failed to stimulate tyrosinase activity in either white or black foreskin cultures. This hormone-responsive organ culture system can be utilized to characterize the molecular processes responsible for the regulation of tyrosinase and pigmentation in human skin.
4296516| A serum-free primary culture system is described which allows normal rat mammary epithelial cells (RMECs) embedded within a reconstituted basement membrane to undergo extensive growth and functional differentiation as detected by synthesis and secretion of the milk products casein and lipid. RMECs isolated from mammary glands of immature virgin rats were seeded within an extracellular matrix preparation derived from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm sarcoma and cultured in a serum-free medium consisting of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-F12 containing insulin, prolactin, progesterone, hydrocortisone, epidermal growth factor, bovine serum albumin, transferrin, and ascorbic acid. Casein synthesis and secretion were documented at the electron microscopic level as well as by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assay using a polyclonal antibody against total rat caseins. Numerous secretory vesicles with casein micelles were noted near the apical surface of the RMECs, and secreted casein was observed in the lumen. These ultrastructural data were confirmed by the ELISA assay which showed that microgram amounts of casein per well were synthesized by the RMECs and that the amount of casein increased with time in culture. Using immunoblot analysis it was demonstrated that the full complement of casein proteins was synthesized. In addition to casein protein, -casein mRNA levels were shown to increase with time. Synthesized lipid was detected at both the light and electron microscopic levels. Phase contrast photomicrographs demonstrated extensive intracellular lipid accumulation within the ductal and lobuloalveolarlike colonies, and at the electron micrograph level, lipid droplets were predominantly localized near the apical surface of the RMECs. The lipid nature of these droplets was verified by oil red O staining. Results from this study demonstrate that RMECs from immature virgin rats proliferate extensively and rapidly develop the capacity to synthesize and secrete casein and lipid when grown within a reconstituted basement membrane under defined serum-free conditions. This unique system should thus serve as an excellent model in which the regulation of mammary development and gene expression can be investigated. 
4296305|Mouse keratinocytes cultures readily develop into established cell lines without undergoing a "crisis" in a newly-developed serum-free medium, LEP/MK2. LEP/MK2 consists of calcium-free MEM with non-essential amino acids supplemented with 8 factors. Two lines, MK1 and MKDC4, have been isolated and have now doubled more than 400 and 200 times respectively. In MK1 cells, Giemsa banding has revealed significant karyotypic changes as early as the 4th passage, leading to a near-tetraploid karyotype with random loss and gain of individual chromosomes. Minute chromosomes, but no stable markers have been observed. After these initial changes, examination of cultures at several passage levels has shown that the karyotype has remained essentially stable. The MKDC4 line, also sub-tetraploid at the 7th passage, had 4 marker chromosomes by the 47th passage. The rapid increase in chromosome number may have contributed to the "immortalization" of these lines. The response of these established keratinocyte lines to growth factors and serum-derived inhibitors changed with increasing passage level. Most notable of these changes were a reduction in the requirement for bovine pituitary extract (an absolute requirement for growth of secondary MK1 cells) and a decreased sensitivity to serum and serum-derived inhibitors, e.g., transforming growth factor-. The established lines, like primary and secondary keratinoeytes, remain responsive to calcium-induced terminal differentiation and are non-tumorigenic in athymic, nude mice. This serum-free system is suitable for transformation studies with oncogenes and chemical carcinogens.
4296723|We examined the effects of secretin (0 to 200 nM) and caerulein (0 to 100 nM) on rat pancreatic acinar cells cultured 0 to 48 h in serum-free medium. The effects of 100 nM secretin with 1 nM caerulein were also studied because secretin may potentiate the effects of caerulein. Cellular and media (secreted) lipase and amylase were analyzed as were cellular DNA and protein content. Cellular lipase and amylase activities significantly decreased (P < 0.0001) over time in all treatment groups, whereas media amylase and lipase significantly increased (P < 0.0001). Neither secretin nor caerulein affected cellular lipase or media amylase. However, secretin significantly increased (P < 0.04) and caerulein tended to increase (P < 0.08) media lipase in a dose-dependent manner. At 12 h, 10 nM secretin maximally increased media lipase (58%), suggesting that cultured acinar cells remain responsive to secretin in vitro. Caerulein, at all concentrations, significantly decreased (P < 0.001) cellular amylase but exhibited a dose-dependent effect only at 24 h when 100 nM caerulein maximally decreased cellular amylase (34%). Secretin (100 nM) did not alter these effects of caerulein. These results support the proposed role of caerulein in the regulation of amylase but not a direct role of secretin in the regulation of lipase.
4296406|Strains of Mycoplasma arthritidis differ in their ability to cause joint and ocular inflammations. Although the reasons for this difference are not fully understood, pathogenic mycoplasmas commonly require close associations with the cells they damage. Using
4296847|The neoplastic expression in mouse embryo fibroblasts exposed to 1,2-dibromoethane and its chloroanalogue, 1,2-dichloroethane in vitro, was examined. Both substances are widely used as fumigants for carpet and upholstery, as gasoline additives, and as organic solvents. Both are known to be highly toxic, mutagenic, and carcinogenic agents. C3H10T1/2 cells treated with these haloalkanes exhibited altered morphology and were selected further by cloning in soft agar. Soft agar clones were found to induce a 100% multitumor occurrence in the nude mouse model. These results suggest that this pair of mutagens have altered the normal phenotype of mouse embryo cells, and these cells have become neoplastic. These neoplastic cell lines will be useful as an in vitro model to study the role of genetic changes in the transformation processes induced by halogenated hydrocarbons.
4296019|A long-term culture of a spontaneously transformed endothelial cell line derived from the choroid-retina of a rhesus macaque fetus is reported. It has been carried in vitro by serial propagation more than 548 passages in 17 yr. Cells were identified as being of endothelial origin by cellular morphology, growth pattern, ultrastructure, immunocytochemistry (immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase), and immunodiffusion. The transformants are characterized by (a) an infinite life span, (b) a changed expression of Factor VIII-related antigen, and (c) chromosomal aberrations. Throughout long-term serial passages and after repeated freeze-storage, thawing, and reculture the cells retain the specific organelles, Weibel-Palade bodies, and most of the other characteristic morphologic features. For this long-term cultured endothelial cell line, Weibel-Palade bodies seem to be a more reliable marker than Factor VIII-related antigen.
4296868|Aedes albopictus mosquito cells resistant to the thymidine analog 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) were obtained using a single-step selection procedure. The resistant cells were characterized with respect to growth in the presence of BrdU, incorporation of
4296770|A chemically defined medium containing 1.2 mM Ca
4296385| Heavy metals including mercury, cadmium, cobalt, and copper (100 M) exerted an adverse effect on the viability of isolated rat adrenal capsular (zona glomerulosa), adrenal decapsular (fasciculate and reticularis), and Leydig cells of the testis, with mercury being the most potent. Due to the decreased cell viability there was a parallel reduction in corticotropin-stimulated corticosterone production by adrenal decapsular cells and luteinizing hormone-stimulated testosterone production by Leydig cells. The results indicated a direct toxic action of these heavy metals on steroid-producing cells in the adrenal gland and the testis. Other metals tested, including lead, zinc, aluminum, chromium, iron, nickel, and lithium, did not exert any deleterious effect on cell viability or hormone-induced steroidogenesis in adrenal and Leydig cells when tested up to a concentration of 100 M. 
4296565|The growth of the mouse pituitary cell line AtT 20 was studied under different in vitro conditions. A completely defined, serum-free culture medium supported the survival of cells for a period of more than 2 mo. The medium, designed SFI, consisted of basal medium supplemented with transferrin, insulin, putrescine, and selenium. For maintenance of cells during long-term culture, no additional compounds were necessary. The time-dependent increases in cell number during culture with fetal bovine serum (FBS) and under serum-free conditions showed similar properties. Analysis of the effects of different substrata on cell growth demonstrated that polylysine supported adhesion and initial growth of cells to a greater extent than untreated plastic or FBS adsorbed to culture dishes. Synthesis and regulation of proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-mRNA, the precursor-mRNA of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), could be detected by Northern blot analysis under basal conditions and after incubation with steroids and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), indicating the serum-independent expression of important cellular properties.
4296996|Prolonged exposure of cells to the potent protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) terminates in cell death. In the present study we investigated the effect of epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and insulin on cell death induced by CHX in the human cancerous cell lines MDA-231 and MCF-7 (breast), KB (oral epidermoid), HEP-2 (larynx epidermoid), and SW-480 (colon), and correlated this effect to the inhibition rate of protein synthesis. Cell death was evaluated by measuring either dead cells by trypan blue dye exclusion test or by the release of lactic dehydrogenase into the culture medium. CHX was shown to induce cell death in a concentration (
4295933|Five human tumor cell lines were studied for growth factor requirements and for replication in serum-free media. Of the five tumor lines HT-29 (colon carcinoma), TWI (melanoma), A-549 (lung carcinoma), Panc-1, (carcinoma of the pancreas) and EJ, (bladder carcinoma) only HT-29 and TWI grew in the serum-free medium (SFM). In a series of additional experiments, a combination of transferrin (
20171457|The effects of various extracellular matrices and collagenous components on the morphology, growth, and function of cultured alveolar type 2 cells is examined. Cells grown on an endothelial matrix (EC) showed the greatest adherence, some cell division, and spreading to reach confluence sooner than cells grown on an epithelial matrix or on various types of collagen. The attenuated cells from all cultures were not true type 1 cells because, on trypsinization, they detached as sheets, reverted immediately to a cuboidal shape held together by junctional complexes, and showed an apparently normal content of lamellar bodies. The greatest synthesis of disaturated phosphatidylcholine (DSPC) was seen in cells grown on EC soon after confluence, but all cultures showed reduced but equal levels of DSPC-DNA by Day 4. This occurred whether cells were attenuated or cuboidal in shape. The results suggest that some component(s) of the endothelial matrix at the alveolar basement membrane facilitates epithelial cell growth. However, over longer culture periods the matrix preparations had little effect on type 2 cell proliferation whereas function diminished. This suggests that maintenance of these cells as normal type 2 cells or their further differentiation to the type 1 form requires some additional cell derived factor(s).
4296281|The instability of the amino acid glutamine prompted us to investigate substitute compounds appropriate for culture conditions. The effect of two glutamine-containing dipeptides, alanylglutamine (Ala-Gin) and glycylglutamine (Gly-Gln), on the growth behavior of a hematopoietic cell line in culture (K562) was investigated. Growth rates and [
4296880|During the peri-implantation stages of mouse development, the secondary trophoblast invades into the uterine decidua. This uniquely controlled invasive process results in the formation of the placenta. We have analyzed this process in vitro using cultures of decidua and microdissected ectoplacental cones from Day 7 embryos. The results showed that the interaction between these two cell types is comparable to that seen in vivo. Morphologically, the decidua maintained close contact with the spreading trophoblast, limiting its invasion and producing a multilayered trophoblast outgrowth. Attachment to the decidua was not mediated through cell-matrix binding, but the subsequent invasion into the decidua was dependent on normal matrix interactions. Secretion of proteinases by the trophoblast also seemed to be a requirement for successful invasion, but not attachment.
4296099|Segregation of genes controlling expression of anthocyanin pigmentation in rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica) leaf blade and leaf sheath was examined in the microspore-derived plants. The segregation pattern of marker genes was found to fit closely the expected gametic segregation ratios among microspore-derived green as well as albino plants. Microspore-derived in vitro regenerated plants expressed genetic traits similar to seedlings. The results indicate that the germ cell culture technique can be of significance while monitoring gene action, i.e. anthocyanin synthesis at monoploid phase of plant development.
20171526|A spontaneously arising continuous cell line (Rb-1) derived from collagenase-elastase digested rabbit aorta has been propagated in vitro for over 100 passages. During this period, the Rb-1 cells remained spindle-shaped and formed regularly oriented parallel bundles. After Passage 50, Rb-1 cells were found to be serum-independent in their growth and reached higher saturation density than rabbit aorta smooth muscle cells. Alpha-actin and desmin filaments were detected by immunostaining in Rb-1 cells and early passage of rabbit aorta smooth muscle cells. The proportion of alpha-actin transcripts in Rb-1 cells was lower than that of transcripts for beta- and gamma-actins. The model chromosome number was maintained at 44 between Passages 11 and 60, and two marker chromosomes were constantly present. Infection of Rb-1 cells with two strains of herpes simplex virus type 1 resulted in high titers of virus, whereas a herpes simplex virus type 2 temperature-sensitive mutant replicated only at the permissive temperature. The Rb-1 cell line could be used for the study of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and their interaction with viruses.
4296805|Rat preputial cells were grown in an epithelial cell primary monolayer culture system identical to that used for culturing epidermal cells, which were studied for comparison. Despite similar appearance when observed by phase contrast microscopy, other features identified the preputial cells as a unique epithelial cell population. Preputial cells grew as a relatively small number of large colonies, formed domes before confluence, and expressed a specific acinar keratin, K4, which had previously been found in human sebaceous glands. In addition, preputial cells formed fewer cornified envelopes than epidermal cells, too few to discern the reduction of envelope formation by retinoic acid treatment in vitro which was found in epidermal cells. Rat preputial cells in monolayer culture, therefore, are a promising model for studying the effects of hormones on sebaceous cell growth and differentiation.
4296482|Gingival tissue from healthy adult human donors was used as a source of epithelial cells for culture. An overnight incubation of this tissue with dispase facilitated the mechanical separation of the surface epithelium from the underlying fibrous connective tissue. This step minimized culture contamination with fibroblasts. The epithelium was then trypsinized to prepare a single cell suspension. The cell pellets were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in keratinocyte growth medium, incubated at 37 C and 5% CO<sub>2</sub> in a humid atmosphere. Primary cultures grew in small islands that coalesced at confluency. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated uniform staining of the cells with antibodies to keratins of stratified squamous epithelium. Ultrastructurally, the cells contained distinct intermediate filaments. When cells were grown in media with low calcium (0.15 mM), cell-to-cell contacts were via interlacing papillary projections with no desmosomes. However, when cells were grown under physiologic calcium (1.2 mM), desmosomes were prominent and well developed. Cells were maintained in culture for over 100 d (7 passages).
4295911|The growth stimulating properties of bovine serum and colostrum were compared in rat hepatoma (HTC) and glioma (C6) cell cultures. A colostrum concentration of 2% was optimal for HTC cells, which then reached a terminal density 40% of that in serum-supplemented medium. The corresponding figures for C6 cells were 10 and 81%, respectively. After 4 d in culture, levels of lipid hydroperoxides were measured and compared. Highest levels of lipid hydroperoxides were found in HTC and C6 cells grown in unsupplemented medium. HTC and C6 cells grown in serum supplemented medium contained levels of 52 and 64%, respectively, of that in unsupplemented medium. The corresponding levels for cells grown in presence of colostrum were 40% for HTC and 44% for C6 cells. To obtain information on any functional alterations in the cells due to the presence of colostrum the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.5) and glutamine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.2) by dexamethasone was studied. Although colostrum seemed to increase the basal activities of the enzymes, no significant effects on the degree of induction could be detected.
4296640| This study examines the effects of cell purity and incubation conditions on testosterone production by rat testis Leydig cells in short-term primary culture. Both basal and luteinizing hormone (LH)-stimulated testosterone production were affected by the purity of the cell preparation, i.e. as the purity of the cell preparation was increased the amount of testosterone produced per Leydig cell was also found to increase. The stimulation ratio of testosterone production, calculated as the secretion of testosterone in the presence of LH (100 ng/ml) divided by the basal secretion of testosterone, increased with the increase in plating density (20 000 to 200 000 cells per well). This pattern of change was independent of the vessel and volume of incubation. In terms of the absolute amount of testosterone produced, increasing the plating density led to a decrease in the amount of steroid produced both basally and in response to LH. Composition of the incubation medium also had an effect on testosterone production; phenol red and sodium bicarbonate exerted negative effects. At all temperatures studied (4, 24, 34, and 37 C), LH increased testosterone production and the degree of stimulation increased with temperature. We conclude that cell purity and incubation conditions markedly affect rat Leydig cell steroidogenesis in vitro. Furthermore, the manner in which the results are presented can affect their interpretation. 
4296907|Adult chicken hepatocytes were obtained by an adaptation of the two step in situ collagenase perfusion. Usually 0.5 to 1  10
4296257| The ability of human epithelial cells derived from adult prostatic tissues to undergo clonal growth in culture was examined. In a previously described serum-free culture system, such cells exhibited a density-dependent growth requirement. It was found that raising the 'level of one of the constituents of the culture medium, bovine pituitary extract, to 100 g/ml permitted excellent clonal growth when as few as 100 cells were inoculated/60-mm2 dish. Raising the levels of supplements other than pituitary extract (cholera toxin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, or insulin) did not produce this result. The average colony-forming efficiency of cells derived from primary or early passage cultures was approximately 25%. When single cell suspensions were prepared from tissue isolates and directly analyzed for clonal growth, colony-forming efficiencies were approximately 5%, perhaps indicating the proportion of stem cells with prolif erative potential in the original isolates. The colony-forming efficiency of a cell population derived from cancer tissue was not significantly different from those of populations derived from normal tissues. 
4295959|Confronting cultures of precultured embryonic chick heart fragments (PHF) with aggregates of malignant cells in vitro have been shown to be relevant for a number of aspects of tumor invasion in vivo. Preculture of the heart fragments, formation of cell aggregates, and subsequent culture of confronting pairs have so far been done only in serum-containing culture media. We describe here confronting cultures of PHF with invasive
4296202|The DH82 cell line was established from the neoplastic progenitor cells of canine MH and was characterized as histiocytic in origin based on light microscopic and ultrastructural morphology, positive staining reactions for alpha naphthyl acetate esterase and acid phosphatase, presence of Fc receptors, phagocytosis of latex beads, and plastic adherence in culture.
4296845| Bovine granulosa cell - conditioned medium (BGC-CM) was prepared in a serum-free medium consisting of TCM 199, 5 g/ml insulin, and 0.5 g/ml aprotinin (TCM 199 IAP). Granulosa cells surrounded with embryos were denuded 24 to 30 h after in vitro fertilization. The proportion of denuded granulosa cell-free embryos that developed to the blastocyst stage in BGC-CM (43/219; 20%) as well as in the co-culture system (43/178; 24%) was significantly greater (P < 0.001) than in fresh TCM 199 IAP medium (FM: 10/191; 5%), whereas the proportion of embryos that developed to the eight-cell stage was similar (P > 0.05) in all three culture systems (95/178; 53% in co-culture, 111/219; 51% in BGC-CM, and 86/191; 45% in FM, respectively). Higher rates of hatching and hatched blastocysts 8.5 days after in vitro fertilization were observed in co-culture (13/44; 29.5%) and in conditioned medium (8/39; 20.5%). On the other hand, no hatching or hatched blastocysts were obtained in the fresh medium (0/7; 0%). Cell numbers per blastocyst in BGC-CM (178.3 cells/blastocyst) were approximately two-fold higher than those in FM (97.1 cells/blastocyst). However, higher cell numbers (249.3 cells/blastocyst) were observed in co-culture with BGC than in BGC-CM. The embryotrophic activity in BGC-CM was stable upon freezing and thawing, lyophilization, and heating at 56 C whereas activity was reduced by dilution in fresh medium, dialysis, pronase digestion, and heating at 80 C. These results suggest that BGC cultured in a serum-free medium can synthesize and secrete an embryotrophic factor(s) that supports blastocyst formation in vitro beyond the 8- to 16-cell stage. 
20171494|Five human myeloma cell lines, KMM-1, KMS-5, KMS-11, KMS-12-PE, and KMS-12-BM, have been established at Kawasaki Medical School since 1980. As the KMS-12-PE and KMS-12-BM lines were obtained from the same patient, these five cell lines have been derived from four patients with multiple myeloma. The five myeloma cell lines are stably growing at present in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. They can also grow in a defined culture medium without serum. That these cell lines were human myeloma cells was confirmed by the following findings. Ultrastructually, all five cell lines showed features characteristic of plasma cells. KMM-1 and KMS-11 cells secreted lambda and kappa chains into the culture medium, respectively, but the other cell lines produced no immunoglobulins. KMM-1 expressed cytoplasmic lambda antigen, KMS-5 showed cytoplasmic delta, and KMS-11 expressed surface kappa, whereas KMS-12-PE and KMS-12-BM cells showed no surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulins. Regarding reaction with a monoclonal plasma cell antibody (PCA-1), four of the five lines were positive, the exception being KMS-5. Another monoclonal antibody (CD38), which also recognizes plasma cells, responded to KMM-1, KMS-12-PE, and KSM-12-BM. KMS-5 cells expressed acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigens (CALLA). These data suggest that such lines as KMM-1, KMS-11, KMS-12-PE, and KMS-12-BM represent later stages of B-cell differentiation, and that KMS-5 represents a relatively early stage of B-cell differentiation. All the cell lines lacked Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen, showed abnormal karyotypes of human origin, and differed from each other in the isozyme patterns examined. Only KMS-5 was tumorigenic when transplanted subcutaneously into nude mice.
4296114| The effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on the mRN A levels of c-fos, N-myc, -actin and prolactin (PRL) were studied in GH3/B6 cells, a rat pituitary cell line. TRH has previously been shown to increase biosynthesis and release of PRL, and to stimulate PRL gene transcription (13,19) in these cells. All experiments were performed on quiescent serum-deprived cells, and under these conditions, addition of TRH stimulated PRL production but did not alter cellular proliferation. Simultaneously, TRH induced time- and concentration-dependent increases in c-fos and -aetin mRNA levels, with peak responses at 30 min and 4 h, respectively, in a dose range from 1 nM to 100 nM. The TRH effects on N-myc mRNA levels were less consistent. Addition of serum to quiescent GH3/B6 cells induced (3-5 fold) increases in c-fos, -actin and PRL mRN As which differed in magnitude and kinetics when compared to TRH stimulation. Serum did not alter N-myc mRNA levels. The TRH-induced increases in c-fos and -actin mRNA may play a role in the secretory response. 
20171387|Studies of bovine carotid artery smooth muscle cells, during long-term in vitro subcultivation (up to 100 population doublings), have revealed phenotypic heterogeneity among cells, as characterized by differences in proliferative behavior, cell morphology, and contractile-cytoskeletal protein profiles. In vivo, smooth muscle cells were spindle-shaped and expressed desmin and alpha-smooth muscle actin (50% of total actin) as their predominant cytoskeletal and contractile proteins. Within 24 h of culture, vimentin rather than desmin was the predominant intermediate filament protein, with little change in alpha-actin content. Upon initial subcultivation, all cells were flattened and fibroblastic in appearance with a concommitant fivefold reduction in alpha-actin content, whereas the beta and gamma nonmuscle actins predominated. In three out of four cell lines studied, fluctuations in proliferative activity were observed during the life span of the culture. These spontaneous fluctuations in proliferation were accompanied by coordinated changes in morphology and contractile-cytoskeletal protein profiles. During periods of enhanced proliferation a significant proportion of cells reverted to their original spindle-shaped morphology with a simultaneous increase in alpha-actin content (20 to 30% of total actin). These results suggest that in long-term culture smooth muscle cells undergo spontaneous modulations in cell phenotype and may serve as a useful model for studying the regulation of intracellular protein expression.
20171554|Two fibroblastic cell lines were established from explants of fibropapillomas of each of two different green turtles (Chelonia mydas). These cells, designated GTFP (Green Turtle Fibropapilloma), were subcultured approximately 30 times at 30 C in Eagle's minimal essential media supplemented with 2 to 10% fetal bovine serum. The ultrastructural morphology of the cultured fibroblasts is described. The cells contained abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum, polyribosomes, and mitochondria; collagen fibrils were visible in the extracellular space. No viruslike particles or evidence of other pathogenic agents could be demonstrated by electron microscopy in any of the cultured cells examined.
4296098|
               
4295792| Treatment of cultured HeLa cells with 5 mM sodium butyrate causes an inhibition of growth as well as extensive chemical and morphological differentiation. Lysosomal enzyme activity changes have been associated with both normal and neoplastic growth as well as many aspects of the neoplastic process. The comparative ultrastructural results show that the butyrate-treated cells have a more extensive internal membranous system than the untreated cells, whereas other organelles seem unaffected by the butyrate treatment. Methods for the histochemical localization of lysosomal acid phosphatase show a twofold increase in particulate reaction product in the butyrate-treated HeLa cells. Isolation of lysosomes followed by a comparative enzyme analysis shows a two to three fold increase in acid phosphatase activity per cell after 24 h of butyrate treatment, as well as three to four fold increase in -glucuronidase activity. These increases reverse within 24 h of removal of the butyrate from the culture medium. These results as interpreted suggest that butyrate treatment may be preventing sublethal autolysis by arresting the leakage of the lysosomal enzymes from the lysosome into the cytosol and thus allowing the cell to chemically and morphologically differentiate. 
20171510| Because the measurement of aromatase activity in cultured human genital skin fibroblasts has been proposed as a means of studying estrogen production in men, we investigated the influence of culture conditions on aromatase activity. Genital skin fibroblasts were seeded onto culture plates at a density of 1  10 cells/plate and aromatase activity was determined over a 1-mo. period. Enzyme activity rose slowly over the first 14 d but then rose rapidly to a 10-fold higher plateau by Day 28. The rise in aromatase activity was similar whether activity was normalized for protein or for DNA content. When cells were seeded at the usual density of 1  10 or at 0.25  10 cells/plate, aromatase activity was consistently lower during the first 2 wk in cells plated at lower density, but thereafter the levels of enzyme activity in the two groups converged. In cells plated at the lower density, the lower activity observed in the first 2 wk was associated with a lower
4295721|A quick and simple method for the establishment of tissue cultures of nonembryonic domestic fowl melanocytes was desired. The selected source of these cells was the 14-d-old regenerating feather. Three procedures were compared on the basis of the yield and purity of melanocytes. For the first method, 2 mm of the proximal end of the feather was cut off under sterile conditions and placed immediately in Hanks' balanced salt solution (BSS) containing antibiotics. The feather was split longitudinally and the pulp removed. The tissue was placed pulp side down in several drops of Ham's F12 medium containing
4296332|The combination (1:1) of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Waymouth's medium MAB 87/3 was found to provide favorable conditions for serum-free culture and growth of adult rat hepatocytes. In this simple medium, a majority of hepatocytes stimulated by epidermal growth factor plus insulin entered S phase and divided, with a normal (13 h) interval between DNA synthesis and cell division. The proliferative response did not require extra substratum or the presence of serum, even during cell isolation and plating.
20171556|Gamma irradiation and ethanol stress treatments redirected pollen development to an embryo formation pathway in Brassica napus. Less than 0.01% of microspores developed into embryos at 25 C compared to approximately 2% at 32 C. However, subsequent to gamma irradiation and ethanol treatments up to 1% and 0.7% of microspores formed embryos at 25 C, respectively. Gamma irradiation also enhanced embryogenesis at 32 C. The possible importance of these findings is discussed in relation to microspore embryogenesis.
20171481|During the course of investigating the growth and differentiation of opossum kidney cells in serum-free medium, it was observed that a mycoplasma contamination (M. hyorhinis) contributed to the spreading of cells. Contaminated cells, seeded on collagen-coated plates, spread out and grew to confluency in Dulbecco's modified eagle's medium/Ham's F12 nutrient mixture containing insulin, transferrin, sodium selenite, and bovine serum albumin fraction V. In addition, differentiated characteristics, including parathyroid hormone-inhibitable, sodium-dependent phosphate transport, were expressed by these cells grown in this medium. After the infection was eradicated, the contamination-free cells would not spread out and proliferate in the same serum-free medium as they had done in the presence of mycoplasma. Normal cellular development, however, was attained after cells were plated in serum-free medium that included fetuin. Cells once again spread out, grew to confluency, and were able to express their differentiated characteristics.
20171525|Increasing doses of Bacillus sphaericus toxin were used to select a toxin-resistant cell line from the Culex quinquefasciatus line. This resistant cell line was proven to be C. quinquefasciatus in origin by isozyme analysis and karyotype. The resistant line bound fluorescent-labeled toxin as did the unselected susceptible line. A high level of resistance was quickly achieved, and this level was maintained after 4 mo. culture in the absence of toxin.
4296567|We investigated the ability of fetal rat bone cells isolated after collagenase digestion to differentiate in vitro and to produce a mineralized matrix on coral granules. Scanning electron microscopy examination of the surface of the seeded coral granules revealed that cells attached, spread, and proliferated on the material surface. Bone nodule formation was studied in this in vitro system by direct examination under an inverted phase contrast microscope. The initial event observed was the appearance of cells with phosphatase alkaline activity arranged in several layers and forming a three-dimensional organization around the coral particles. By Day 7, nodule formation began and a refringent material appeared and extended to the background cells during the following days. By Day 15, some coral granules were embedded in a mineralized matrix. Histologic results demonstrated the formation of a mineralized tissue with the appearance of woven bone.
4295736|Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been shown to stimulate DNA synthesis in rat parenchymal hepatocytes both in vivo and in vitro (4,9). We report here that this response in vitro is dependent on the amino acids present in the media. Of all the amino acids, proline has the strongest effect. The response to EGF is absent without proline and none of the other amino acids can substitute for it. Added proline (1 mM) to the media caused the labeling index to increase from 11% to 55% in the presence of 50 ng/ml EGF and insulin. In the presence of proline, small additional increases of the EGF effect on DNA synthesis were stimulated by phenylalanine and tyrosine.
4296637|A new three-dimensional human skin model consisting of several layers of actively dividing and metabolically active human neonatal foreskin-derived fibroblasts and epidermal keratinocytes grown on nylon mesh has been used to assess the in vitro toxicity of test agents from various classes. Utilizing a slight modification of the published neutral red viability assay for endpoint determination, we have assayed and obtained dose-dependent toxicity curves for test agents from the following classes: detergents (n = 15), alcohols (n = 5), metal chlorides (n = 10), perfumes and colognes (n = 5), shampoos (n = 4), conditioners (n = 3), moisturizers (n = 3), pesticides (n = 3), and antimicrobial preservatives (n = 4). Limited comparisons to in vivo ocular irritancy data with alcohols and detergents are encouraging. We have demonstrated the utility of this metabolically active dermal substrate containing naturally secreted collagen and other extracellular matrix proteins along with the neutral red viability assay for assessing the toxicity of a number of test agents from a variety of different classes with broad industrial applications.
4296939|Using clonal cell lines isolated from murine neuroblastoma C1300, we investigated the mitochondrial changes related to neuronal differentiation and, more generally, the role played by the mitochondrion in this phenomenon. By different approaches (measurement of the mitochondrial mass, immunoquantification of specific mitochondrial proteins, or incorporation of Rhodamine 123), the differentiation of the inducible clone, N1E-115, was found associated with an important increase of the cellular content in mitochondria. This increase could be observed with differentiating N1E-115 cells maintained in suspension, i.e. under conditions where neurite outgrowth is prevented but other early stages of (biochemical) differentiation continue to occur. That these mitochondrial changes are likely to be correlated with these stages of neuronal differentiation, rather than with simple progression to the postmitotic stage, stems from comparative experiments with clone N1A-103, a neuroblastoma cell line variant that becomes postmitotic after induction but fails to differentiate and shows no modification in its cellular content in mitochondria. In accordance with these observations, chloramphenicol prevents differentiation when added together with the inducer. This effect is probably related to the inhibition of mitochondrial translation rather than to modification of the bioenergetic needs because oligomycine, a potent inhibitor of the mitochondrial ATP synthetase, shows no effect on neurogenesis. As a working hypothesis and in keeping with independently published models, we postulate that products resulting from mitochondrial translation could be involved in the organization of the cytoskeleton or of certain membrane components whose rearrangements should be the prerequisite or the correlates to early stages of neuronal differentiation.
4296879|The molecular mechanisms that regulate the synthesis of salivary proteins are unknown. The paucity of homogeneous cell populations of parotid acinar cells has become a limiting factor for such a study. Therefore, the establishment of immortalized clones of acinar cells is essential. This study has established primary cultures of rat and human parotid epithelial cells that are suitable for transfection with plasmid vectors, pSV2, pSV3, and pSV5 to generate immortalized cells in vitro. Among various techniques used, the rat and human parotid tissue or cellular clumps when restrained in chicken plasma clot allowed the outgrowth of epithelial cells that maintained epithelial cell morphology for over 4 wk. However, the initial growth requirements for rat and human parotid cells were different. The presence of 10% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum in supplemented MCDB-LB medium was essential for the outgrowth of rat parotid epithelial cells, but this was not needed for the outgrowth of human parotid epithelial cells. The growth of both human and rat parotid epithelial cells can be maintained in serum-free supplemented MCDB-LB. These primary cultures contained amylase-producing cells as demonstrated by immunofluorescent technique, and they were transfected with pSV2, pSV3, and pSV5 using primarily the calcium phosphate-DNA co-precipitation technique. After initial extensive cell death, many cells with epithelial cell morphology survived.
20171449| A muscle cell strain capable of forming contracting myotubes was isolated from an established rat embryo cell line. The myogenic cells, termed rat myoblast omega or RMo cells, have a diploid complement of chromosomes (n = 42). In the presence of mitogen-containing growth medium, RMo cells proliferated with a cell generation time of about 12 hours. In mitogen-depleted medium, RMo cells withdrew from the cell cycle and formed myotubes that spontaneously contracted. Differentiated RMo cells produced creatine kinase isozymes in a ratio characteristic of skeletal muscle cells. RMo cells were easy to cultivate. Cells proliferated and differentiated equally well on gelatin-coated or noncoated culture dishes, at clonal or mass culture densities, and in all basal media tested. In most experiments, growth medium consisted of horse serum-containing medium supplemented with either chicken embryo extract or FGF activity; cells proliferated equally well in medium containing unsupplemented calf serum. RMo cells differentiated if growth medium was not replenished regularly. Alternatively, differentiation was induceable by incubation in mitogen-depleted medium consisting of basal medium supplemented either with 10 M insulin, 0.5% serum, or 50% conditioned growth medium. RMo cells were competently transformed with cloned exogenous genes. Because it forms functional myofibrils, the RMo cell line constitutes a useful model system for studying the cell biology and biochemistry of proteins involved in contractile apparatus assembly and muscle disease. 
4296550|Amiprilose hydrochloride, a 3-substituted glucose derivative, was found to inhibit the proliferation of human fibroblasts and keratinocytes originating from psoriatic lesions. Fibroblasts and keratinocytes were obtained from skin biopsies of normal donors, and from the biopsies of active/involved and uninvolved sites of psoriatic donors. The cells were cultured as monolayers or as components of tissue equivalent models. Keratinocytes and fibroblasts originating from biopsies of psoriatically involved areas were shown to proliferate at a significantly higher rate than those derived from uninvolved areas. The antiproliferative effect of amiprilose hydrochloride was not observed with normal keratinocytes or fibroblasts from the skin of healthy donors or from uninvolved areas of psoriatic donors. Amiprilose hydrochloride was not cytotoxic to any of these cells at levels below 0.1%. The combination of the low cytotoxicity and the selective antiproliferative effect indicates that this compound may be a useful antipsoriatic agent. The use of monolayer cultures and tissue equivalent models in this study illustrates the utility of such a progressive strategy in the evaluation of potential topical pharmaceuticals.
20171390|Heliothis cell lines originated from different laboratories were characterized by isoenzyme analysis and then evaluated for their ability to produce the single nuclear polyhedrosis virus of Heliothis zea (HzSNPV). A cloned cell line (designated Hzlb3), whose homogeneity was supported by both morphological and isoenzyme analysis, was derived from a parental line (Hzl). Significantly greater yields (about 10-fold) of tissue-culture-derived, non-occluded virus (TCNOV) were obtained when compared to the parental line. The Hzlb3 clone also gave significantly higher yields of TCNOV than the Hz3 and UND-K cell lines. Although lines Hzl, Hz3, and Hzlb3 produced significantly more polyhedral inclusion bodies (PIB) than line UND-K, the infectivity of PIB from UND-K equaled that of lines Hzl and Hzlb3.
4296616|Three squamous carcinoma cell lines HBPC-1, HBPC-2, and HBPC-3 were established from hamster buccal pouch tumors induced by topical 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) treatment alone, topical DMBA treatment in conjunction with type 1 herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) inoculation, and topical DMBA application in combination with type 2 HSV (HSV-2) inoculation, respectively. The cells were epithelial in morphology, had a doubling time of approximately 18 h, and required bovine serum for optimal growth. They demonstrated an in vitro anchorage-independent growth and produced squamous cell carcinomas when transplanted into normal hamster pouch submucosa. The carcinoma cell lines equally expressed cellular hst, src, abl, and raf proto-oncogenes that were not expressed in the normal hamster pouch epithelial cells. An equal amount of fos gene expression was noticed in the normal pouch epithelial cells, HBPC-1 and HBPC-3, but the HBPC-2 expressed less fos poly(A
4295764|The influence of the extracellular matrix (ECM) glycoproteins collagen IV, laminin (LN), and fibronectin (FN) on the in vitro migration of epithelial cells was studied using the ECM migration track method (4) with preparations immunostained for LN and FN. The locomotion of rat liver epithelial cells stimulated to migrate in serum-free medium by epidermal growth factor (EGF) in the presence of insulin is inhibited by substratum-bound FN. The inhibition is concentration-dependent up to
4295852|Elastin accumulation in the extracellular matrix of cultured rat aortic smooth muscle cells was monitored as a function of age. The effect of the animal donor age and time in culture in single or consecutive passages on the cells' ability to accumulate total protein as well as elastin was evaluated. Smooth muscle cells were obtained from animals ranging in age from 2 d to 36 mo. Protein accumulation by the cells based on DNA content was similar regardless of which of the above aging parameters was examined. Although there were significant amounts of elastin present in the extracellular matrix of those cells originating from the younger animals (2 d and 6 wk old), little or none was detected in cell cultures derived from the oldest animals. A soluble elastin-like fraction which was isolated from the cultures of the 2-d-old rats seemed to be lacking in the cultures of cells from the 36-mo-old animals. This observation may, in part, explain the absence of insoluble elastin in the matrix of some cultures obtained from older animals. The data strongly suggest that the age of the donor animal from which the cells originate has the greatest influence on in vitro elastin accumulation.
4296974|Normal human mesothelial cells (NHMC) were isolated from pieces of human omentum. The cell yield was approximately one million cells per square centimeter omentum. The mesothelial cells were identified by their positive staining with monoclonal antibodies against cytokeratins 6 and 18. Transmission electronmicroscopy of cultured NHMC revealed many microvilli on the apical surface and many mitochondria and pinocytotic vesicles in the cytoplasm, indicating active transmembrane transport. Growth of NHMC was directly related to the concentration of human serum or of fetal bovine serum in the growth medium. Addition of epidermal growth factor with or without hydrocortisone resulted in a significant increase of NHMC growth; when endothelial cell growth factor, insulin, or hydrocortisone were added no such increase was observed. Seeding NHMC at densities less than
4296606|We have developed a novel, "in situ" translation system derived from cultured cells that are subject to mild detergent extraction. By using a low concentration of nonionic detergent to gently permeabilize cells while they remain adherent to a substrate, cytoskeletal frameworks are obtained that are devoid of membraneous barriers yet retain much the same topological arrangement of mRNA, ribosomes and cytostructure that exists "in vivo". Data indicate that when these cytoskeletal frameworks are supported by a ribosome-depleted, nuclease-treated, reticulocyte lysate supernatant, they are capable of resuming translation of their attached polysomes for at least 40 minutes. Emulsion autoradiography of ongoing protein synthesis demonstrates that protein synthetic activity is ubiquitous throughout the population of extracted cells, and not confined to a less well-extracted subset. Computer-assisted, two-dimensional gel analysis reveals that the pattern of proteins produced by such extracted cells is approximately 70% coincident with that produced by unextracted cells, including proteins of molecular weight as great as 200 kilodaltons. Furthermore, a continued increase in intensity of almost all proteins during the first 40 minutes of translation suggests that translational re-initiation, in addition to polysome run-off, is also taking place. Collectively, these findings indicate that much of the translational machinery remains both intact and competant in this cytoskeletal-based translation system. As such, this system should prove extremely useful in identifying molecular factors operant during certain types of translation control and in further examining the role played by the cytoskeleton in regulating gene expression.
4296752|It has been suggested that the generation of toxic radicals plays an important role in toxicity by Adriamycin (ADR) on cancer cell lines and in vivo. We have examined the role of free radicals in determining toxicity and resistance to ADR of rat glomerular epithelial cells in culture; this method provides a good model for analyzing the mechanisms responsible for ADR experimental nephrosis in rats. Three points were established: a) the intra- or extracellular site of ADR toxicity; b) the role of the superoxide anion and of the hydroxyl radical in determining intra- and-extracellular cytotoxicity; and c) the implication of oxido-reduction cycling as a potential route for ADR semiquinone transformation. Free ADR was found to induce the same inhibition of [
4296170|The mechanism of induction of tubular outgrowths in vitro on floating collagen gels and the influence of extracellular factors on this process have been investigated using the clonal rat mammary epithelial cell line, Rama 25. Growth of Rama 25 on such floating gels causes their contraction. Contraction of the gel is accompanied by a 10-fold increase in the number of cells per unit area, a change in cell shape, and a convolution of the epithelial cell sheet. Gels folded over manually show an 11-times higher incidence of tubules along the folds than on the flat surface. Tubular formation begins when cords of cells develop from local proliferations of the cell sheet and become canalized. Tubules follow wrinkles in the gel and branch to yield monopodial, dichotomous, or lobular architecture. Hydrocortisone and insulin, in the presence of serum, stimulate both narrow and thick tubular structures on folded gels, whereas extra additions of 1 ng/ml cholera toxin or 100 ng/ml epidermal growth factor preferentially stimulate thick tubular structures. Floating glutaraldehyde-fixed gels, very thick collagen gels, and collagen gels prepared on the top of rigid steel grids fail to support the formation of tubules, suggesting that flexibility and access of the medium to basal surfaces are important to their genesis. Incorporation of hyaluronic acid into the gel matrix preferentially inhibits the thick tubular outgrowths. Thus, the branching tubular structures generated by Rama 25 can be influenced in different ways by various extracellular factors in the medium and in the gel.
4296106|Cultures of umbilical vein endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells were studied in a constant pressure chamber. The following results were obtained: (a) Endothelial cell growth was maximal at 80 mmHg and minimal at 0 mmHg (atmospheric pressure) for the first 2 d of incubation. However, these growth rates were reversed during the following 6 d because of steady increase in growth at 0 mmHg, and a decrease in growth at higher pressures. A degeneration of endothelial cells began at 120 mmHg and marked degeneration was noted at 160 mmHg. Growth of smooth muscle cells was not influenced by ambient pressure and a steady increase in labeled nuclei continued throughout the period of culture, (b) Elastin, stainable with tannic acid, was noted electronmicroscopically in both endothelial and smooth muscle cells. (c) Production of prostacyclin by endothelial cells was maximal at 0 mmHg and minimal at 80 mmHg, in contrast to the growth pattern of these cells. Production of thromboxane B
4296748| Early passage bovine brain capillary endothelial cells were immortalized by transfection with the plasmid pSV3 neo. Cells from one clone, SV-BEC, expressed nuclear SV 40 large T antigen, displayed a contact-inhibited and anchorage-dependent proliferation, and a high sensitivity to the addition of exogenous basic fibroblast growth factor. SV-BEC cells are morphologically unaltered and express typical markers of endothelial cells: Factor VIII-related antigen, angiotensin-converting enzyme and Griffonia simplicifolia agglutinin binding site. Endothelium like immunoreactivity was detected in the conditioned medium from these cells. Moreover, SV-BECs present numerous intercellular tight junctions characteristic of the blood-brain barrier and possess functional 1- and 2-adrenergic receptors, as observed on isolated bovine brain capillaries. 
4296409|Smooth muscle cells were cultured from pig aorta. Changes in both the growth and the properties of sulfated proteoglycans were observed during passage. The population doubling time during log phase growth was 34 h from Passages 3 to 7-8 but 20 h at the Passage 11, and the cell density at the stationary phase, was
4296694|Mycoplasmal infection of cell cultures remains a significant threat to diagnostic and research procedures. In certain defined situations, curing of mycoplasmal infected cultures is a reasonable exercise. Four methods of curing were compared: treatment with BM-cycline, 5 bromouracil, use of specific antisera and treatment of infected cells suspended in soft agar with antibiotics. Antisera treatments were of low efficiency of curing: 50%. None of nine infected cell lines treated with 5-bromouracil were consistently cured of mycoplasmas. The use of BM-cycline was effective for some, but not all lines and required long periods of treatment, 12-21 days. 35 naturally or deliberately infected cultures were treated in soft agar a total of 119 times. This procedure which consisted of suspending infected cultures in soft agar containing appropriate antibiotics resulted in successful mycoplasmal elimination 118/119 times. This soft agar technique took 1-3 days. In separate studies, it was shown that certain Mycoplasma fermentans strains were resisted to this and other curing methods. This may be due to their intracellular location. Such strains may be more amenable to antibiotics that penetrate mammalian cells. It is concluded that the soft agar technique is a rapid, efficient and reliable method to eliminate cell culture mycoplasmas.
4296749|Salivary electrolyte secretion is under the control of the autonomic nervous system. In this paper we report that HSY, an epithelial cell line derived from the acinar-intercalated duct region of the human parotid gland, responds to muscarinic-cholinergic (generation of Ca
4296361|Using innovative approaches, we addressed several problems often associated with in vitro chemosensitivity testing of individual human tumors: 1) obtaining a high rate of evaluability; 2) excluding participation of nonmalignant stromal and vascular components usually present in tumor specimens; 3) preserving cell-to-cell interactions present in the original tumor; 4) assessing drug-induced cytotoxicity without sacrificing the tumor culture. To circumvent these problems, tumor specimens were processed as follows: i) tissue (fresh or cryopreserved) was mechanically or enzymatically dissociated under mild conditions into cellular clusters (termed micro-organs); ii) large micro-organs were separated by a brief decantation, resuspended, and then exposed to fluorescein acetate to visualize (under naked eye) viable micro-organs; iii) fluorescent (i.e., viable) micro-organs were collected using a Pasteur pipette, and then planted on a solid support made of cellulose fibers impregnated with collagen. Since tumor micro-organs have been previously shown to consist solely of malignant cells, the procedure described here not only preserves a critical portion of the tumor architecture but eliminates at the onset necrotic tissue and nonmalignant cellular components that could interfere with the chemosensitivity testing. Drug-induced cytotoxicity was measured by "fluorescent cytoprinting", a novel, nondestructive procedure for assessing micro-organ viability in situ. The key feature of fluorescent cytoprinting is that cytotoxic effects are not measured against control cultures but against a baseline provided by a cytoprint of the same culture before drug addition. Using three experimental designs, we tested the potential of the method for clinical applications. The results using 469 human malignant tumors showed that the micro-organ culture assay can distinguish individual tumor chemosensitivity profiles with an overall success rate of 96%. For three commonly used chemotherapeutic drugs, the observed frequency of responding tumors was found to be comparable to previously reported clinical results using single agents.
20171576| Biliary epithelial cells (BEC) lining the intra-hepatic biliary ducts are the site of damage in several immunologically mediated liver diseases. BEC are difficult to isolate since they represent only 5% of the total cell number in normal liver. In this communication, a novel method for their isolation from normal liver is presented using a monoclonal antibody (HEA125) with specificity for an epithelial cell surface glyco-protein reported to be expressed in liver only by biliary epithelium. By combining differential density centrifugation and immuno-magnetic separation using HEA125 pure BEC (10 cells/g fresh tissue) were prepared routinely. These cells were maintained in culture for up to 4 weeks with significant increases in cell numbers. The ability to prepare BEC from human liver offers an opportunity to develop In Vitro models to investigate the aetiology of diseases of intra-hepatic biliary epithelium. 
4295903|Tracheas from vitamin A-deficient hamsters in organ culture in vitamin A-free medium developed squamous metaplasia. Addition of retinyl acetate to the medium prevented squamous metaplasia and a mucociliary epithelium was maintained. Indirect immunofluorescent staining with antikeratin antibodies AE1 and AE3 indicated positive reactions with epithelium of tracheas either cultured in vitamin A-free or retinyl acetate (RAc)-containing medium. The "stratum corneum"-like squames in metaplastic tracheas were strongly stained by AE3. Immunoprecipitation of cytoskeletal extracts from [
4296915|Expression of the RB tumor suppressor gene, whose function is putatively in controlling cell growth, may be regulated by S-phase specific inhibitors of DNA synthesis that are commonly used in cell synchronization and cancer chemotherapy. Relatively low concentrations of the agents, cytosine arabinoside, bromodeoxyuridine, 5-fluorouracil, hydroxyurea, methotrexate and retinoic acid, were tested. At low concentrations still permitting submaximal cell growth, these drugs all changed RB gene expression, causing either up or down regulation of RB expression to varying degrees. Despite their potential similarity as a class, the nucleotide analogues elicited differential effects. The drug-induced up or down regulation of RB expression did not correlate with changes in c-myc expression indicating that the changes are not a manifestation of general metabolic changes potentially associated with altered proliferation. Amongst the agents considered, retinoic acid was the only one that caused a significant parallel reduction in RB and c-myc expression in the HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells tested. The results thus show that even low concentrations of DNA synthesis inhibitors can have unpredictable affects on expression of growth regulatory genes.
4296607|In this paper, we describe a simple technique to introduce DNA into cells through cracks and/or pores in cell membranes caused by intracellular ice crystal formation induced by liquid nitrogen. We mixed mouse BALB 3T3 cells and pSV2-neo DNA and froze the cell suspension under various conditions to determine those optimum for the introduction of DNA into mammalian cells. We found that brief treatment with liquid nitrogen, which showed only moderate cell killing, resulted in the induction of G-418 resistant colonies. These results suggest that this new technique is useful for transfection of genes into mammalian cells.
20171372| Stimulation of human arterial endothelial cells with heparin-binding growth factor-1 (HBGF-1) resulted in a 40% to 60% increase in the cellular adenylate cyclase activity and intracellular cAMP content. The stimulatory effect of HBGF-1 was effectively suppressed by pretreating the cells with transforming growth factor- (TGF-), an endothelial cell growth inhibitor. The inhibition of the adenylate cyclase activity precedes growth inhibition by at least 24 h. The half maximal inhibitory dose was calculated to be 0.2 ng/ml for the inhibition of both cyclase activity and cell growth. The possible role of the adenylate cyclase suppression in growth inhibition by TGF- is discussed. 
4296423|Norepinephrine stimulates the growth in size of nondividing neonatal cardiocytes. During this time the neonatal cardiocyte is in a period of transition in which the cell can synthesize DNA and yet does not divide. Because the cell undergoes karyokinesis without cytokinesis the objective of this study was to determine whether the norepinephrine-induced growth in size of the neonatal cardiocyte was accompanied by an increase in a) the number of cardiocytes synthesizing DNA, b) the number of binucleate cardiocytes, and c) organized myofibrils. One- to four-d-old neonatal rat heart cells were isolated and placed in serum-free medium which was then supplemented with serum, norepinephrine, norepinephrine plus propranolol, or isoproterenol. After 4 d the number and size of the cells was determined using a Coulter counter. In other cultures cardiocytes were fixed on Days 0, 1, 2, and 4, and an increase in the number of binucleate cardiocytes was found in all treatment groups including controls. However, the rate of binucleation was faster in the norepinephrine group. It was also determined by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) antibody staining that by Day 4, over 50% of the cardiocytes were in the cell cycle. The percentage of cells in which PCNA could be detected was higher in the norepinephrine and norepinephrine plus propranolol groups. Furthermore, there was a concomitant increase in the amount and organization of myofibrils in the catecholamine-treated cardiocytes.
4296120|The concentration of each of 10 pesticides (azinphosmethyl, captan, carbaryl, chlordimedorm, dichlorvos, dimethoate, fenvalerate, methomyl, methyl parathion, trichlorfon) causing a 50% inhibition (ID
4296182|Cell suspensions prepared by collagenase digestion of pancreases obtained from rat fetuses (21.5 d old) and newborns (2.5 d old) were mixed with a collagen solution and inoculated on a collagen base layer. At the onset of the culture, most acinar cells became necrotic, whereas other epithelial cells proliferated. Most of the cell clusters arranged themselves into simple polarized structures composed of epithelial cells forming hollow spheres, and from these budded neoformed endocrine islets. Scarce fibroblasts were located close to these structures. Immunocytochemical localization of insulin and glucagon, as well as ultrastructural characteristics of the cell types revealed an intrainsular distribution similar to the in vivo localization. Tridimensional matrix of collagen offers, to perinatal pancreatic cells in culture, an environment close to the in vivo conditions: cells reorganize themselves in tissuelike structures and cell interactions concerned in the cytodifferentiation of pancreatic islets occur. This system allows for the study of undifferentiated epithelial cells-the presumed stem cells-differentiating and differentiated endocrine cells in the same preparation.
4296549|Our laboratory has been involved in finding optimal conditions for producing dermal and skin equivalents. As an original approach, a Box-Behnken experimental design was used to study the effects of the initial collagen and fibroblast concentrations and the initial gel thickness on the contraction of dermal and skin equivalents. The final surface area of dermal equivalent varied significantly with the initial concentration of collagen and fibroblast, whereas the initial thickness of gel had no appreciable effect on the contraction of the dermal equivalent. When keratinocytes were grown on these dermal equivalents they produced a very severe contraction, to an extent that all skin equivalents had a similar final surface area. This severe contraction was independent of collagen and fibroblast concentrations. Models for the prediction of the final percentage contraction of dermal and skin equivalents as a function of the initial concentration of collagen, the logarithm of fibroblast concentration, and the initial gel thickness were obtained and analyzed. Keratinocytes grown at the lowest seeding density did not contract the equivalents. However, histologic analysis has shown an incomplete coverage by these cells of the equivalents. The extensive contraction of the skin equivalent presenting adequate morphology is a major drawback toward its clinical utilization for burn wound coverage.
4295912| Recent studies in our laboratory have shown that five established rat hepatoma cell lines provide a wide spectrum of tumor-associated aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity representative of the range of activities of this enzyme seen in primary rat hepatocellular carcinomas. Four newly established rat hepatoma cell lines, RLT-2M, RLT-3C, RLT-9F, and RLT-5G, were derived from a primary hepatocellular carcinoma. The primary tumor was induced by a single injection of diethylnitrosamine (15 M/g body weight) to a 1-d-old female S-D rat followed at weaning by chronic phenobarbital treatment. RLT-2M was established from outgrowths of minced tumor pieces. RLT-3C, RLT-9F, and RLT-5G were cloned from RLT-2M by the serial endpoint dilution. All four lines have been maintained in culture for over 100 passages. The ALDH phenotype in both the primary tumor and the four new cell lines was determined by total activity assay, gel electrophoresis, and histochemistry. By total activity assay, the primary tumor did not possess significant tumor-ALDH activity. In contrast, the four new cell lines expressed tumor-ALDH activity. However, they differed in their basal ALDH activities and in ALDH inducibility by 3-methycholanthrene, benzo(a)pyrene, and phenobarbital. Additionally, significant decreases in tumor-ALDH activity occurred when cells from each line were passaged in vivo. The four lines have been characterized by light and electron microscopic morphology, tumorigenicity, chromosome number, doubling time, and colony formation efficiency in soft agar. 
4296222|Endothelial and smooth muscle cells were isolated from human adult large blood vessels to compare their proliferative response to hormones and growth factors. Neural extracts and the medium from differentiated hepatoma cells were used as concentrated sources of required hormones and growth factors that supported both cell types. Active hormones and growth factors were identified from the neural extracts and hepatoma medium by substitution or direct isolation and biochemical characterization. Epidermal growth factor, lipoproteins, and heparin-binding growth factors elicited growth-stimulatory effects on both endothelial and smooth muscle cells. Both types of human vascular cells displayed 7600 to 8600 specific heparin-binding growth factor receptors per cell with a similar apparent dissociation constant (Kd) of 200 to 250 pM. Heparin modified the response of both endothelial and smooth muscle cells to heparin-binding growth factors dependent on the type of heparin-binding growth factor and amount of heparinlike material present. In addition, heparin exerted a growth factor-independent inhibition of smooth muscle cell proliferation. Platelet-derived growth factor, insulinlike growth factors, and glucocorticoid specifically supported proliferation of smooth muscle cells with no apparent effect on endothelial cell proliferation. Growth-factorlike proteinase inhibitors had an impact specifically on endothelial cell proliferation. Transforming growth factor beta was a specific inhibitor of endothelial cells, but had a positive effect on smooth muscle cell proliferation. The results provide a framework for differential control of the two vascular cell types at normal and atherosclerotic blood vessel sites by the balance among positive and negative effectors of endocrine, paracrine and autocrine origin.
4295876| Adult bovine parathyroid glands were enzymatically dispersed and groups of 2 to 5 million cells were reassociated into multicellular aggregates (organoids) by rotation in roller tubes in serum-free medium. Fifty to seventy percent of the seeded cells were incorporated into each organoid at 3 d of culture, and in a typical experiment where DNA content was assayed before and after culture 49  3% of the original seeded DNA was present after 19 d of culture. No significant differences in DNA content were observed between experimental groups at any time of culture. The morphology of the cells in organoids was similar to that of cells in fresh tissue as determined by light and electron microscopy. The organoids secreted intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) and COOH-terminal hormone fragments which were similar to those released from monolayer cell cultures. Organoids maintained the ability to modulate PTH secretion in response to extracellular calcium for over 2 wk in culture. Each organoid was cultured separately and secreted PTH such that the mean standard deviation of secretion within groups on a per organoid basis was 16.3% of the mean. Using a perifusion system to study acute regulation over a 2-wk period of culture, PTH secretion was suppressed 58  4% by 2.5 mM compared to that at 0.25 mM calcium. To examine PTH secretion over a range of calcium concentrations, the perifusion system was used to apply 4-h linear gradients of decreasing calcium to fresh tissue slices and to organoids. The results indicated that the calcium (ionized) concentration at 50% secretory suppression (set-point) were 1.30  0.11 and 1.20  0.9 mM for the organoids and slices, respectively. Acute secretory control by calcium decreased after 14 d and was not detectable at 22 d of culture. The results demonstrated that the organoids maintained their differentiated function and tissuelike morphology for extended periods in vitro and therefore represent a suitable model system for studies on the long-term modulation of PTH secretion by vitamin D metabolites, ions, and other agents. 
4296639|Bovine somatotropin was given to six lactating (230 day) cows (40 mg/day x 5-days) and excipient was given to six control cows. Mammary, liver, and adipose explants from somatotrophin and control cows were co-cultured at 37 C for 24 h with
20171443|Arsenic-resistant Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells were established by progressively increasing the concentration of sodium arsenite in culture medium. One of the resistant clones, SA7, was also cross-resistant to As(V), Zn, Fe(II), Co, and Hg. The susceptibilities to sodium arsenite in parental CHO cells, revertant SA7N cells, and resistant SA7 cells were correlated with their intracellular glutathione (GSH) levels and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity. The resistance in SA7 cells was diminished by depletion of GSH in cells after treatment with buthionine sulfoximine. Furthermore, after reexposure of revertant SA7N cells to sodium arsenite, the intracellular GSH levels, GST activity, and resistance to sodium arsenite were raised to the same levels as SA7 cells. These data indicate that the elevation of intracellular GSH levels and GST activity in SA7 cells may be responsible for the resistance to arsenite. A p25 protein, which could be a monomer subunit of GST, accumulated in SA7 cells. In addition, an outward transport inhibitor, verapamil, indiscriminately increased the arsenite toxicity in resistant and parental cells.
20171448|The diagnosis of cancer is made on histologic examination by recognizing the characteristics of the malignant phenotype, i.e. abnormal cells in abnormal groupings, often in abnormal locations. Histophysiologic gradient culture reconstitutes conditions that meet the spatial imperatives of tissues in nature. A variety of carcinomas arise in the genitourinary system involving both glandular and stratified epithelium. To be considered here are the contrasting polarizations of proliferation of normal and neoplastic rat urothelium, the continuity of sheets of epithelium in nature, the poorly understood stable and unstable interepithelial boundaries, and the formation of organoid endocrinelike tissue in histophysiologic gradient culture of normal human amnion epithelium.
20171508| Human proximal tubule cell cultures exposed to doses of cadmium chloride (CdCl) between 0.05 g/ml and 0.5 g/ml exhibited alterations in cell membrane structure and transport function. At these Cd concentrations, cell numbers were not significantly altered from control values in either nonreplicating confluent, or actively replicating subconfluent cultures. Transmission electron microscopy revealed few alterations in cultures treated with 0.05 g/ml Cd. Tight junctions were intact; organelles and myeloid body formation appeared normal. Freeze fracture analysis confirmed the integrity of the tight junctions as well as increased numbers of vesicles or pits along the lateral cell membrane, indicating increased endocytotic activity. Cells exposed to 0.1 g/ml Cd were characterized by decreased numbers of microvilli and inhibited myeloid body formation. Cd doses of 0.5 g/ml elicited nuclear chromatin condensation, fragmented sealing strands in 5 to 10% of the tight junction profiles, sparse microvilli, and inhibited myeloid body formation. Electrophysiologic assessments of transport function by Ussing chamber analysis revealed decreases in transepithelial potentials for all three concentrations, with significant differences at Cd concentrations of 0.5 to 0.1 g/ml. Cells treated with 0.5 g/ml Cd also exhibited slight decreases in electrical resistance, consistent with the minimal fragmentation of sealing strands observed in freeze fracture replicas. Resistance in cultures treated with 0.1 or 0.05 g/ml Cd remained within control values and indicated that drops in potential difference and short circuit current in these cells reflected true alterations in ion transport. 
20171571|When apical meristems of carrot (Daucus carota L. cv. US-Harumakigosun) seedlings were cultured on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium with 0.7 M sucrose or 0.25 - 1 mM cadmium ion, then transferred to hormone-free MS medium with 0.1 M sucrose, somatic embryos were formed on the surface of the explants without visible callus formation. Somatic embryos were also formed on malformed seedlings, when carrot seeds were treated with hypochlorite solution at a high concentration and sown on hormone-free MS medium with 0.09 M sucrose. These somatic embryos were fractionated by passing through stainless steel sieves with different pore sizes, encapsulated in calcium alginate gel, and placed in plastic petri dishes under sterile conditions. These synthetic seeds germinated 1 to 2 weeks after the beginning of the culture. In the case of synthetic seeds containing a single embryo, the frequency of the seeds which developed both a radicle and a green bud was about 30-50% in large embryos induced by the treatment with sucrose, cadmium or sodium hypochlorite, and about 15% in 2,4-D induced embryos. When 2,4-D induced embryos were encapsulated and sown, numerous secondary and tertiary embryos were formed but they did not develop into normal seedlings.
4296338|We have isolated a continuous cell line from soft tissue lining the knee joints of rabbits. Designated HIG-82, this line was produced by spontaneous establishment of an aging, late-passage culture of primary cells. Like unpassaged, primary cells, HIG-82 cells can be activated by a number of stimuli, including phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), interleukin-1 (IL-1), and the endocytosis of latex beads. Activated cells secrete collagenase, gelatinase, caseinase (stromelysin), and prostaglandin E
4296586|Weibel-Palade bodies are ultrastructurally defined organelles found only in vascular endothelial cells. Because endothelium in corpo is very dispersed, isolation and further characterization of this organelle has been dependent on increasing the number of cells in culture. However, primary isolates of endothelial cells have a limited replication potential and tend to senesce in culture. In this report, EA.hy926, a continuously replicating cell line derived from human endothelium, is shown to contain Weibel-Palade bodies. Electron micrographs demonstrate the ultrastructural characteristics of these tissue-specific organelles and their cytoplasmic distribution in EA.hy926 cells. Von Willebrand factor, which has been shown to exist in Weibel Palade bodies, is demonstrated by immunofluorescence in discrete rod-shaped organelles whose size, shape, and distribution are consistent with that of Weibel-Palade bodies in primary endothelial cell cultures. Rapid release of von Willebrand factor can be induced by calcium ionophore, and large multimeric forms of the protein are found in EA.hy926 cells. These two properties are consistent with the function currently ascribed to Weibel Palade bodies: storage of multimerized von Willebrand factor. Thus ultrastructural, immunologic, and functional data establish the existence of this as yet poorly understood tissue-specific organelle in a continuous, vigorously replicating human cell line.
20171370| A diallel study involving reciprocal crosses of four genotypes (IR8, 36, 54, and 64) was carried out to understand the genetic mechanism of plant regeneration from immature embryo-calli in rice. Regeneration frequency (% of calli that produced plants) varied from a high of 86% for IR54 to a low of 0% for IR36, while regenerated plants per embryo numbered from 0 to 7 when these same IR lines and the F hybrids were compared. Combining ability analysis revealed that both nuclear (with both additive and dominant effects) and cytoplasmic genes are important in controlling regeneration in rice. Parental lines and F1 hybrids with high ability to regenerate were identified. 
4296479|The aminoglycoside antibiotic streptomycin is a known nephrotoxin in vivo and a common component of cell culture media. The effects of streptomycin (100 g/ml) on transepithelial electrical properties, glucose transport, glycolytic metabolism, and morphology were examined in primary proximal tubule cell cultures from winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus) kidney. Streptomycin treatment on either Days 2 to 12 or Days 8 to 13 abolished the transepithelial potential difference and short-circuit current across the monolayer but had no effect on transepithelial resistance in confluent 12 to 13-d cultures, suggesting the loss of active transepithelial transport. Consistent with these findings, mucosal-to-serosal glucose fluxes were greatly reduced in streptomycin-treated cultures and insensitive to the transport inhibitor phlorizin, indicating the absence of the apical Na-dependent glucose transport system associated with net glucose reabsorption. In addition to transport processes, antibiotic treatment also interfered with cellular energy metabolism as judged by the rapid reduction in glycolytic lactate production observed in the presence of streptomycin. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy revealed that streptomycin-treated cultures were composed of enboidal-to-columnar shaped cells which maintained intact tight junctions similar to control cultures. However, apical microvilli, the presumed sites of mucosal transport systems, were severely reduced in number in streptomycin-treated cultures. We concluded that streptomycin, at a dose commonly used in cell culture, inhibited the expression of differentiated function by flounder proximal tubule cell cultures. These cell cultures may provide a suitable model system for examination of the mechanisms of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity.
4296298|Conditions for arresting and stimulating the proliferation of the rainbow trout fibroblast cell line RTG-2 have been examined and the time course of events after stimulation determined. Quiescent populations were achieved in two ways. Cultures grown to confluency without a medium change for at least 7 d had fewer than 5% of the cells in S phase and few mitotic figures. Cultures deprived of serum, which could be done for up to 3 d without a loss in cell number, also achieved quiescence. After 3 d without serum, less than 1% of cells were in S phase and mitotic figures were infrequent. Addition to these cultures of fresh serum-containing medium brought about the synchronous entry of cells into S phase and mitosis. For cultures in which either the medium had been changed after 7 d without a change or serum-containing medium had been added after 3 d of serum deprivation, DNA synthesis increased after a lag period of 20 to 24 h, was pronounced between 30 and 45 h, and then declined. This was followed by a peak in the mitotic index. These protocols for arresting and subsequently stimulating RTG-2 proliferation should allow the G<sub>1</sub>-S transition to be studied in a representative of teleosts.
4296036| Somatic cell mutants resistant to drugs that interact with the eukaryotic ribosome provide a useful tool for studies on ribosome structure, function, and genetics. From Aedes albopictus (mosquito) cells, cycloheximide-resistant mutants (Cx-705 and Cx-738) that were about 30-fold more resistant to cycloheximide than the parental cells have been obtained. The observation that protein synthesis in cell-free lysates from Cx-705 and Cx-738 cells was resistant to cycloheximide led us to suspect that the alteration in these mutants might affect the ribosome. The present studies show that the cycloheximide-resistant cells grow poorly and eventually die at 34.5 C, a temperature at which wild-type cells grow normally. Relative to control cells, the cycloheximide-resistant cells show increased sensitivity to G-418, another antibiotic that interacts with the eukaryotic ribosome. However, there were no differences between cycloheximide-resistant cells and wild-type cells in sensitivity to puromycin, emetine, or cryptopleurine. Cx-705 cells were predominantly diploid; in contrast, the frequency of tetraploid nuclei in Cx-738 cells was about 40%. 
4296623|Microvascular endothelial cells from bovine adrenal medulla and brain and macrovessel endothelial cells from bovine aorta were isolated and cultured under similar conditions in order to determine morphologic and biochemical heterogeneity in vitro. All three cell types exhibited nearly identical ultrastructural morphology and two-dimensional gel protein patterns of
4295840|Primary rabbit tracheal epithelial cells growing on either plastic surface or collagen gel produce high molecular weight glycoconjugates. Biochemical characterization of these materials show they are exclusively hyaluronic acid when cells are grown on plastic surface, but a mixture of hyaluronic acid and mucin-like glycoproteins when grown on collagen gel. This research suggests that the substratum plays an important role in the maintenance or differentiation or both of mucous cells in culture.
4295970|Bovine tracheal submucosal gland cells have been isolated by enzymatic digestion and serially propagated in tissue culture for more than 12 mo. (40 passages). The cells exhibit an epithelioid appearance at confluence and contain alcian blue (pH 2.5)/periodic acid-Schiff-positive material within cytoplasmic granules. By electron microscopy numerous osmiophilic secretory granules are seen. Maximal growth is observed when the cells are grown on human placental collagen-coated culture vessels in medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum. Scintillation spectrometry revealed that radiolabeled precursor (
4296447|A new method was developed for rabbit skin organ culture. In a two-compartment model, skin discs were cultured on a Millicell-HA insert unit with a microporous membrane which allows transport of culture medium via the dermis into the epidermis, whereas the epidermal side remains free of direct contact with culture medium. In this relatively simple two-compartment organ culture model, rabbit skin could be cultured for 7 d in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum, or for 2 d in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with cofactors. The histomorphology and ultrastructure of 7-d cultured rabbit skin discs was essentially similar to that of freshly isolated rabbit skin. Keratinocytes in the stratum basale continued to divide during organ culture. The terminal differentiation of the epidermis continued in vitro as was found by the presence of keratohyalin granules, the intact stratum corneum, and keratin expression. Furthermore, glucose consumption continued until culture Day 7, but thereafter it declined rapidly. Concomitantly, degenerative changes were found. At the end of the 7-d culture period the distance between single dermal collagen fibrils had increased as compared to noncultured skin. This model of skin organ cultures can be used to study biological processes, dermal toxicity, and penetration and metabolism of xenobiotics in intact skin. Furthermore, within certain limits, processes responsible for repair and regeneration of damaged skin can also be studied in this model because the rabbit skin can be cultured for 7 d.
4295936| Bone marrow samples from patients with various hematologic disorders were stored at 4 C for up to 5 d before the establishment of a 24-h culture. We tested various factors, including storage time, colony stimulating factor, and methotrexate in an effort to improve metaphase and chromosome quality. Cytogenetic findings for various hematologic diseases were compared in a total of 201 cultures. Cold storage for up to 3 d did not seem to adversely affect the number of mitoses or the quality of chromosome banding when cells were cultured in a system that used both colony stimulating factor and methotrexate. In samples studied in parallel, clonal abnormalities were noted as frequently in cells stored in the cold as in those processed directly. 
4295855|Primary cultures of neonatal rat hearts contain both striated muscle (myocytes) as well as nonmuscle heart cells (NMHC). Although myocytes do not divide in culture, NMHC do increase in number, The growth of NMHC is dependent on the concentration of serum in the media over a range of 1 to 10%. When compared to growth in 10%, cells in 1% serum have a prolonged doubling time and reach a maximum density that is 70% less. Thus, 1% serum which supports normal myocyte development is a useful culture media to also maintain muscle heart cell homogeneity by its failure to support optimun NMHC division.
4295797| A Percoll density gradient was employed for selecting large numbers of viable insulin-producing RINm5F cells. Homogenates of these cells were then subjected to gradient centrifugation and two clearly visible bands were obtained. The light fraction was essentially composed of mitochondria banded at a density of about 1.06 g/ml. The heavier fraction banded at 1.09 to 1.10 g/ml and contained lysosomes and a small number of secretory granules. The distribution of Percoll particles was restricted to the extracellular space and there was no adsorption to any membrane structures. The distribution pattern of marker enzymes for the mitochondria and lysosomes was similar to that of normal pancreatic -cells. With the use of a Percoll density gradient it was thus possible to isolate a purified mitochondrial fraction from viable RINm5F cells. 
4296997|Fetal bovine serum (FBS) or heat-inactivated FBS (
4295958|Endothelial cells are subjected to fluid mechanical forces which accompany blood flow. These cells become elongated and orient their long axes parallel to the direction of shear stress when the cultured cells are subjected to flow in an in vitro circulatory system. When the substrate is compliant and cyclically deformed, to simulate effects of pressure in the vasculature, the cells elongate an orient perpendicular to the axis of deformation. Cell shape changes are reflected in the alignment of microtubule networks. The systems described provide tools for assessing the individual roles of shear stress, pressure, and mechanical strain on vascular cell structure and function.
4296750|Histophysiologic gradient culture methods reconstitute important spatial relationships that occur in nature between a parenchyma and its supporting stroma. At the epithelial-stromal interface, epithelia are firmly attached to the stromal substrate, initiation of renewal takes place, and metabolites are exchanged by a process of diffusion between epithelium and substrate. Other spatial imperatives characteristic of stratified epithelium are high density of cells, gradients of maturation, and continuity of epithelia along the entire course of the stromal-parenchymal interface. In radial gradient culture these relationships of epithelial cells, and supporting substrates are reconstituted. The culture chamber consists of a thin-walled cylinder, 2 to 3 mm in diameter and 3 cm long. The wall is a transparent collagen membrane in whose substance is embedded a reinforcing nylon mesh. To prepare a culture, one end of the cylinder is ligated, 1 or 2 particulate inocula are inserted in the open end of the cylinder, guided toward the ligature, and the open end is ligated. Subsequently, during incubation in a container with medium, the explants attach and proliferate. Proliferation and migration result in the cylinder being completely lined by a complex organoid tissue with structural characteristics of the original tissue. The tissue patterns in radial gradient culture of two human cell lines, RT-4, a bladder cancer, and 87x50, an ovarian cancer, are illustrated.
4296339|To study the interaction of migrating newt epidermal cells with purified extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules we have developed an in vitro migration assay using pieces of newt skin explanted onto culture dishes coated with various ECM molecules and cultured for 18 h in defined serum-free medium. Newt epidermal cells migrate out from explants placed on dishes coated with either collagen, vitronectin, fibronectin, or fibrinogen but not on albumin-coated or uncoated dishes. Explant outgrowth on collagen was best in CEM 2000 medium diluted to 60% of mammalian osmolarity. Other media such as RPMI 1640 or Ex-Cell 300, diluted similarly, may also be used although in our hands CEM 2000 always allowed more migration. We found no migration on collagen when skin explants were incubated in Holtfreter's solution (an amphibian saline solution that we have previously shown allows reepithelialization on amputated newt limbs). Supplementation of Holtfreter's solution with glucose did not improve its ability to support migration. By testing various supplement combinations in conjunction with CEM 2000 and RPMI 1640 we found that neither serum, insulin, selenium, transferrin, nor Irglutamine is required for explant outgrowth. Of the additives tested, outgrowth was stimulated only by insulin. Epidermal cell outgrowth on collagen was inhibited by both puromycin and cycloheximide, indicating the necessity for protein synthesis in this system. Whether the effects of these protein synthesis inhibitors are specifically on migration-related events or on general metabolic requirements is not clear. Inasmuch as there was no correlation (r = -0.227) between DNA synthesis (measured by incorporation of tritiated thymidine) and the amount of outgrowth, we believe that our assay is a measure of cell migration alone rather than a combination of mitosis and migration. This explant outgrowth system represents a new and relatively simple assay that can be used in the study of cell-substrate interactions during newt epidermal cell migration over extracellular matrix molecules in a defined serum-free environment.
4296026|This study measures the inhibition of
4296825| An efficient and reproducible technique for the transfection of primary cultures of adult mouse keratinocytes has been developed. The procedure involves culturing the primary adult mouse epidermal cells at 32 C in an enriched media until they reach 70 to 95% confluency, followed by transfection with exogenous DNA in a low potassium environment. Using chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) transient gene expression assays and various strong viral promoter/CAT constructs, the transfection procedure was optimized for media formulation, plasmid DNA concentration, carrier DNA concentration, incubation temperature, incubation period, and cell density. Optimized parameters include the use of 6 g plasmid DNA and 10 g pUC19 carrier DNA per 60-mm tissue culture dish. Since primary keratinocytes undergo a well-characterized pattern of differentiation in vitro in response to extracellular calcium concentrations, this transfection procedure should provide a useful model in which to study both tissue- and differentiation-specific gene expression. 
20171473|Neonatal rat cardiac myocytes were isolated and cultured to evaluate the effects of growth factors and inhibitors on proliferation, survival, and functions in a serum-free medium. Insulin and transferrin in MCDB 107 nutrient medium elicited DNA and protein synthesis in cells on a fibronectin-coated culture surface in serum-free medium. Insulin was most effective on both DNA and protein synthesis in serum-free culture conditions. The serum-free, hormone-supplemented medium eliminated the contamination of noncardiac myocytes and supported the long-term survival (over 18 d) of cardiac myocytes. Dexamethasone was required to induce optimal contractility with or without insulin and transferrin. Serum contained both negative and positive effectors of DNA and protein synthesis of the cardiac myocytes. Concentrations of serum (above 5%) inhibited DNA and protein synthesis. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) accounted in part for the inhibitory activity. The serum-free culture system provides a useful model to elucidate the role of hormones, growth factors, and drugs in heart cell regeneration and function.
4296432|Stable lines of gametophytic tissue of the fern Pteridium aquilinum resistant to streptomycin at 1.0 mg/ml were isolated without treatment with mutagens. The lines did not exclude the antibiotic, and were not found to be profoundly different from sensitive tissue at the ultrastructural level.
20171511|Cell lines with stable melanized phenotypes were isolated from a goldfish erythrophoroma cell line. These cell lines include several interesting phenotypes: a) reversible dedifferentiation and redifferentiation in response to withdrawal and addition of fish serum; b) irreversible dedifferentiation in response to withdrawal of fish serum; c) independence on fish serum for melanization; d) dependence on fish serum for growth; and e) pigment aggregation in response to epinephrine. We also report that cryopreservation of all the melanized cell lines, but not any of the unmelanized cell lines, requires the presence of fish serum. This raises the possibility that there may be advantages to use autologous serum for the cryopreservation of sensitive cell lines.
4296408| One-cell embryos from outbred mice (CF1, CD-1, and Dub:ICR) were cultured in various modifications of egg culture medium (ECM). The best development was observed in medium in which inorganic salts of modified T6 medium (mT6) replaced those of ECM. In this modification (TE), 66% of one-cell CF1 embryos developed into blastocysts, compared to 46 and 43% for ECM and mT6, respectively. Moreover, the cell numbers of blastocysts developing in TE (74.9  3.3) were higher than the cell numbers of those developing in ECM (55.1  2.4). The culture requirements of embryos varied between different stocks of mice: Fewer CF1 embryos developed to the blastocyst stage than either Dub:ICR embryos (90%) or CD-1 embryos (84%). Lowering the osmolarity of the medium from 300 to 280 mOSM, increasing the concentration of KCl from 1.42 to 25 mM, or omitting lactate from the medium during Day 1 of culture did not further improve development of embryos, in contrast to previous reports. However, the time at which embryos were transferred to outgrowth medium influenced their postblastocyst development. The best development was observed when embryos were transferred on Day 4 of culture at the late morula-early blastocyst stage. 
4296133|Lymphatic endothelial cells isolated from bovine mesenteric lymphatic vessels were cultured and characterized. Lymphatic endothelial cells grew as a monolayer displaying an elongated morphology in preconfluent primary cultures. When confluent, the cells exhibited a polygonal morphology to form a "cobblestone" pattern previously described for cultured vascular endothelium. All culture lymphatic endothelial cells expressed Factor VIII-related antigen and bound Ulex europaeus I lectin. Ultrastructurally, cultured lymphatic endothelium was characterized by the presence of Weibel-Palade bodies as well as the usual cytoplasmic organelles.
4296620| The growth of the endothelial cell (EC) is tightly regulated throughout the body. Many factors have been implicated in modulating EC growth including diffusible compounds, cell-to-cell interactions, and the extracellular matrix (ECM). Retinol, or vitamin A alcohol, has recently been shown to inhibit the growth of bovine capillary ECs, in vitro. Retinoids are known to modify ECM in other cell systems, and pure ECM components have been shown to effect EC growth rates. We, therefore, examined the role of the matrix in the retinol-induced inhibition of ECs. Cell-free matrices from control and vitamin A-treated ECs were prepared by removing cells with EGTA treatment after 7 d of culture. Matrix proteins were analyzed by solubilizing the matrices in 5 M quanidine-HCl and performing Western blot analysis using specific antibodies to matrix proteins. In isolating the ECM, we observed that retinol-treated cultures of ECs were resistant to EGTA removal; retinol-treated ECs required twice the exposure time to EGTA to detach from their matrix than did controls cells. Western blot analysis of matrix proteins derived from control and retinol-treated EC cultures demonstrated a 1.6-fold increase in laminin  chains and a 2.5-fold increase in fibronectin in the ECM of retinol-treated EC compared to control cell matrix. Functional properties of these matrices were assessed by plating control and Day 6 retinol-treated ECs onto the matrices and measuring attachment and growth by determining cell numbers at 24, 72, and 144 h. These studies revealed that control cells attached in greatest numbers to a control matrix whereas retinol-treated ECs preferentially attached to a matrix derived from retinol-treated cells. Furthermore, control ECs which grew rapidly on a control matrix were growth inhibited on a retinol-derived matrix. These data indicate that vitamin A treatment of ECs effects both their phenotype and influences the composition and the functional properties of their underlying ECM. These studies also demonstrate that alterations of the matrix are at least in part responsible for the growth inhibition of EC by retinol. 
4296356|The binding of human recombinant insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) to BALB/c 3T3 mouse embryo fibroblasts has been characterized, resulting in the development of a radioreceptor assay. Binding of radioiodinated IGF-I (
4296520|Multiple shoots were produced from cotyledonary node explants of pea (Pisum sativum L.) cultured on MS medium containing
4296352|Quiescent normal human mesothelial (NHM) cells will undergo one round of DNA synthesis when they are incubated in a defined medium consisting of LHC basal medium supplemented with hydrocortisone, insulin, transferrin, and one of the following peptide mitogens: epidermal growth factor; transforming growth factor beta (1 or 2); platelet derived growth factor (a,b heterodimer or b,b homodimer); fibroblast growth factor (acid or basic forms); interleukin 1 (alpha or beta forms); interleukin 2; interferon gamma; interferon beta; or cholera toxin. However, sustained cell multiplication does not occur unless the medium contains hydrocortisone, insulin, transferrin, any one of the above-listed peptide growth factors and high density lipoproteins. Growth can be increased twofold if the medium contains certain combinations of these mitogens and high density lipoproteins. The finding that NHM cells can respond to a broad spectrum of growth factors supports the possibility that an autocrine mechanism may be part of the mechanism that leads to transformation of these cells by asbestos.
4296070| The production of albumin, -fetoprotein (AFP), and -1 antitrypsin has been compared among human hepatoma cells cultured in medium containing serum, medium containing hormones and growth factors, and a basal medium containing selenium as the only supplement. Growth is sustained in all three media, and the expression of all three proteins was maintained for over 4 mo. in the various media. However, the quantitative production of albumin and AFP were dramatically different in the three media. Two hormones, insulin and triiodothyronine, influenced the level of secreted proteins. Triiodothyronine increases the amount of secreted albumin whereas insulin at 10 g/ml reduced the level of total secreted protein. 
4296604| This study demonstrates that retinoic acid (RA), an active metabolite of vitamin A, can act to enhance regeneration of neuntes, at physiologic concentrations, in vitro. Explanted fragments of mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and mouse and human spinal cord (SC) were maintained, in vitro, for periods up to 11 d. Murine DRG neurons were exposed to RA concentrations ranging from 100 M to 1 nM, whereas neurons within murine and human SC explants were exposed to 10 M to 10 nM RA. Results show that RA significantly (P < 0.001) increases mean neurite length but not neurite number. Specifically, murine DRG neurons showed increases in mean neurite length of 30.7% with individual explants showing increases of up to 133.5%. Murine and human SC showed mean enhancements of 43.4 and 58.1%, respectively, but did so at lower concentrations of RA. The results indicate that RA may play a potentially critical role in neuronal regeneration. 
4295873|Insulin, FeSO
4295837|A new cell line, designated SPC Gl 13, derived from dorsal vessels of larvae of Gromphadorhina laevigata has been established. The medium used is D. 73. The cells are fibroblastlike cells. Some of them are fixed; others, spindle-shaped or round, are in suspension. Most of the cells have the diploid chromosome number. The SPC G1 13 cell line is permissive to the chlamydia Rickettsiella grylli.
4296811|A model system for 3-dimensional "native-state" culture of tissues on collagen gels (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86:2013-2017; 1989) has been applied in this study to histologically normal human renal cortical tissue from 11 patients undergoing nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma elsewhere in the kidney. Microbial contamination occurred in 12/90 cultures, the rest (78) were studied by visual inspection, histology, immunohistochemical analysis for pankeratin (epithelial cell origin), vimentin (mesenchymal cell origin), and p-glycoprotein (associated with proximal tubules), transmission electron microscopy (EM), incorporation of tritiated thymidine (
4296764|A serum-free culture medium (defined medium = DM) was elaborated by adding to Eagle's minimum essential medium (MEM), non-essential amino acids, transferrin, putrescine, tripeptide glycyl-histidyl-lysine, somatostatin, sodium selenite, ethanolamine, phosphoethanolamine, sodium pyruvate, and metal trace elements. This medium was tested for its ability to support sustained surfactant biosynthesis in fetal alveolar epithelial type II cells. For up to 8 days, ultrastructure was maintained with persistance of lamellar inclusion bodies. Thymidine incorporation into DNA was enhanced about 50% in DM as compared with MEM, whereas it was enhanced 300% in 10% fetal bovine serum. With DM, the incorporation of tritiated choline into phosphatidylcholine (PC) of isolated surfactant material was about twice that with MEM. Deletion experiments evidenced the prominent role of pyruvate, transferrin, and selenium in the stimulation of surfactant PC biosynthesis. The addition of biotin to DM enhanced surfactant PC biosynthesis slightly and nonsurfactant PC biosynthesis markedly. The presence of nucleosides seemed unfavorable to the synthesis of surfactant PC. Type II cells responded to the addition of epidermal growth factor and insulinlike growth factor-I both by increased thymidine incorporation into DNA and choline incorporation into PC. It is concluded that DM represents a useful tool for cultivating type II cells without loss of their specialized properties and for studying the regulation of cell proliferation and surfactant biosynthesis in a controlled environment.
4296262|Monolayers of cultured epithelial cells have been prepared from fragments of guinea pig pancreatic excretory ducts isolated by a simple procedure employing collagenase digestion and manual selection, through which virtually all of the ductal system can be recovered. The isolated fragments were cultured in enriched Waymouth's medium on extracellular matrices of various composition and thickness, including; thin (< 5 Mm) and thick (0.5 mm) layers of rat tail collagen; thin layers of human placental collagen; thin layers of Matrigel (a reconstituted basement membrane material); uncoated tissue culture plastic; and the cellulose ester membranes of Millipore Millicells. Cells spread rapidly from duct fragments cultured on uncoated plastic or on plastic coated with thin layers of rat tail collagen or human placental collagen and formed epithelial monolayers. However, these cells were squamous and lacked the abundant basolateral membrane amplification and apical microvilli characteristic of freshly isolated duct epithelial cells. Cells did not spread from duct fragments cultured on Matrigel. In contrast, when fragments of pancreatic ducts were explanted onto either a thick layer of rat tail collagen or onto Millicell membranes, cells readily spread and formed confluent monolayers of cuboidal epithelial cells characterized by abundant mitochondria, apical microvilli, and basolateral plasma membrane elaboration. These results demonstrate that different forms of extracellular matrix modulate the growth and differentiation of pancreatic duct epithelial cells, and that culture on a permeable substrate markedly enhances the maintenance of differentiated characteristics in this cell type. The monolayers formed on Millicell membranes should provide a useful model system for physiologic analysis of the regulation of electrolyte secretion by this epithelium.
4296615|The transfer of chimaeric plasmids to Drosophila melanogaster cell lines has been examined as a system for investigation of the hormonal regulation of the genes coding for D. melanogaster yolk polypeptide 1 (YP1) and Locusta migratoria vitellogenin B (VgB). Constructs containing promoters and putative 5'-regulatory sequences from these genes, ligated to bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) coding DNA, were transfected into Drosophila Kc (Kc-H) and S3 cells, and transient expression of CAT was assayed. Activity was expressed both from the homologous promoter of pYP1CAT and from the heterologous locust promoter of pVgCAT at comparable levels. In S3 cells, with calcium phosphate-mediated transfer of pYP1CAT there was a twofold induction of CAT activity after the addition of 10
4296430|Insulinlike growth factors (IGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are produced in renal tissue, as are specific receptors for these hormones. To evaluate the significance of these observations to regulation of renal tubular cell proliferation, we have examined the interaction of IGF and EGF with cultured human proximal tubular epithelial cells (HPT). HPT cells showed specific binding of IGF-1, insulin, and EGF. IGF-1 binding was inhibited by antibody to the type 1 IGF receptor (<tex-math>$\alpha-IR3$</tex-math>). Insulin receptors and type 1 IGF receptors were identified by bifunctional cross-linking. IGF-1, insulin, and EGF stimulated [<sup>3</sup>H]thymidine incorporation by 77, 73, and 87%, respectively. Half maximal stimulation by IGF-1, insulin, and EGF was produced with <tex-math>$4 \times 10^{-9} M$</tex-math>, <tex-math>$2.5 \times 10^{-8} M$</tex-math>, and <tex-math>$8 \times 10^{-10} M$</tex-math> concentrations of these hormones. <tex-math>$\alpha-IR3$</tex-math> inhibited stimulation of thymidine incorporation by IGF-1 and insulin but had no effect in EGF-stimulated thymidine incorporation. EGF and high concentrations of insulin both stimulated cell proliferation by 83 and 79%, respectively. These data are consistent with regulation of tubular epithelial proliferation by IGF-1, insulin, and EGF and suggest that the mitogenic activity of both insulin and IGF-1 is mediated by the type 1 IGF receptor.
4296265|Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells lost volume when exposed to
4296342|Rat Virus, a parvovirus of rodents that produces a variety of developmental disturbances of the head and face in neonatal animals, was examined for its ability to replicate in neonatal calvariae in vitro. The bones were isolated and infected with RV within 1 d of birth and cultured for up to 7 d. Virus from the bones and supernatant was titered, and the cellular location of replication determined using in situ hybridization. The virus readily replicated in the isolated bony tissues, reaching liters of nearly 10
4296468|In an attempt to prolong the survival of the explanted early chick embryo heart, hearts at stages 10 to 28 were cultured in supplemented Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium with or without the perfluorocarbon, perfluorotributylamine. The perfluorocarbon was added to the standard culture medium in a 50:50 (vol/vol) mixture. Explants were evaluated daily and were harvested for light microscopy after 2 to 10 d in culture. The tubular shape of the explants was generally maintained for 2 d in culture, after which the hearts became dilated or spherical. Beating was noted in some of the explants on Day 2 in culture but not thereafter. Microscopic evaluation showed patchy areas of necrosis in all explants by Day 3, although large areas of viable epithelioid cells were documented as long as 7 d after explantation. Stage 16 to 18 hearts cultured in the presence of perfluorocarbon were more likely to maintain tubular architecture on microscopy than hearts cultured in standard medium. Hearts cultured from later stages showed no improvement in appearance with the presence of perfluorocarbon and there was a suggestion of increased necrosis in later-stage explants cultured with perfluorocarbon for 4 d. Further modification of the culture system will be required to prolong explant survival and development beyond 2 d.
4296777|Myocardial cell culture methods are now well established for animal and fetal human tissue. We present here a method for harvesting and culturing adult human atrial myocardiocytes. Cells are obtained from fresh atrial tissue normally discarded after being removed to cannulate the right atrium during open heart surgery. The atrial tissue is minced and then digested using collagenase. The single cell suspension is initially cultured in serum-containing growth medium, then transferred to defined medium, selective for myocardial cell growth. The cells are characterized by immunoperoxidase stains and transmission electron microscopy. The cultured cells stain positive for myoglobin, whereas control cultured fibroblasts and endothelial cells do not. Electron microscopy shows the presence of numerous myofibrils, Z-bodies, pleomorphic mitochondria, and secretory granules. The chronological age of the donor was an important factor in culturing the adult tissue, the younger tissue correlated with a higher success rate. This method provides a means for in vitro study of human adult myocardial cells and provides guidelines for appropriate atrial tissue to use.
20171532| The spinal cords of fetal NIH:CR mice, gestational age Day 12 to 14, were dissected free of meninges and dorsal root ganglia, chemically dissociated, and layered onto discontinuous Percoll gradients at densities 1.040, 1.050, and 1.060 g/ml. After centrifugation (800 g for 15 min at 4 C), three morphologically, biochemically, and immunohistologically distinct cell populations were collected from the gradient interfaces. The first interface, located at a density of 1.040 g/ml, was choline acetyltransferase enriched (0.86  0.08) compared to the second and third fractions (0.42  0.01 and 0 pmol acetylcholine synthesized/g protein, respectively). When simultaneously cultured with fetal mouse cardiac muscle on a gelatin-polylysine-laminin substrate in serum-free medium, these cells developed the characteristics of motor neurons. 
4295899|Ultrastructural characteristics of fetal rat brain cell aggregates in a three-dimensional stationary culture system are described. Transmission electron microscopy showed immature cells which developed into mature astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons during 20 d in culture. This was accompanied by the development of a neuropil where myelinated axons and synaptic complexes were observed. In addition to confirming earlier ultrastructural investigations on fetal rat brain cell Aggregates, the stationary culture system also showed the presence of histiotypic regions within the aggregates. These regions consisted of ependymal cells where cilia were observed on the cell surfaces. Structures resembling subependymal basement membrane labyrinths were also observed. Macrophages seemed to be more numerous in the stationary cultures as compared to other culture systems. The stationary culture system may provide aggregates that are ultrastructurally more complex than those obtained by rotation mediated systems.
4296359| The A431 cell line is composed of malignant keratinocytes derived from a vulval epidermod carcinoma. These cells have the peculiarity to stop their proliferation when they are treated with physiological concentrations of EGF, which is a mitogen for normal keratinocytes. We reported earlier that EGF induces involucrin accumulation in A431 cells and proposed that the arrest of proliferation triggers differentiation as shown by the induction of this cornified envelope precursor protein. To test this hypothesis, we compared the A431 subclone 15, which is not growth arrested by EGF-treatment, to the parental A431 cells. We found indeed that EGF reduces the involucrin content of clone 15 cells in a dose dependent manner. These opposite effects of EGF on the expression of terminal differentiation marker involucrin in A431 and A431 clone 15 keratinocytes were observed in defined medium as well as in presence of fetal calf serum. Nevertheless, when growth of parental A431 cells was inhibited by treatment with TGF- or simply when cultures reached confluency, no involucrin accumulation was observed. Therefore growth arrest per se is not directly correlated with the induction of differentiation. 
4296605|Human cardiac myocytes undergo degeneration, cytolysis, and necrosis in a number of clinical disease conditions such as myocarditis, dilated cardiomyopathy, and during episodes of cardiac allograft rejection. The precise cellular, biochemical, and molecular mechanisms that lead to such abnormalities in myocytes have been difficult to investigate because at present it is not possible to obtain and maintain viable cell cultures of human adult cardiac myocytes in vitro. However, human fetal cardiac myocytes are relatively easy to maintain and culture in vitro, but their limited availability and growth, variability from one preparation to another, and varying degrees of contamination with endothelial and epithelial cell types have made it difficult to obtain reliable data on the effect of cardiotropic viruses and cardiotoxic drugs on such myocytes. These thoughts prompted us to attempt to derive a cell line of human cardiac origin. Highly enriched human fetal cardiac myocytes were transfected with the plasmids pSV2Neo and pRSVTAg and gave rise to a cell line (W1) which has been maintained in culture for 1 yr. Morphologic and phenotypic analyses of W1 cells by flow microfluorometry and immunoperoxidase techniques indicate that the W1 cell line shares many properties of human fetal cardiac myocytes, but appears not to react with specific antibodies known to react with markers unique to human endothelial, epithelial, skeletal muscle, and dendritic cells. These preliminary data suggest that the W1 cells may provide a unique source of an established cell line that shares many properties ascribed to human cardiac myocytes.
4296292|Sixty-four malignant cell lines were examined for interleukin-1 (IL-1) activities in their conditioned medium using thymocyte and fibroblast proliferation assays. Sixteen cell lines showed high IL-1 activity. Comparison of these activities with human IL-1 showed similarity between some biological properties. However there was no correlation between cell origin and IL-1 activity. These results suggest the possibility that most malignant cells may produce an IL-1-like factor.
4296829|Proliferating cell nuclear antigen mRNA levels were determined in human diploid fibroblasts as they progressed through the cell cycle. PCNA message levels were low at GO, gradually increased following entrance into G1, peaked at G1/S, and declined during S phase. PCNA mRNA was determined to have a half life of 12 hours when cells were blocked at the G1/S interface. PCNA protein levels increased two- to three-fold as cells moved from G0 to S phase.
4296454|The understanding of pathways associated with differentiated function in human epithelial cells has been enhanced by the development of methods for the short-term culture of human epithelial cells. In general these methods involve the use of serum. The subculture and maintenance of epithelial cells in long-term culture has been more problematic. A serum-free medium developed for human bronchial epithelial cells was slightly modified and found to be useful for the subculture and long-term maintenance of not only bronchial epithelial cells, but also tracheal, nasal polyp, and sweat gland epithelial cells from either normal or cystic fibrosis individuals. The cells maintained epithelial-specific characteristics after multiple subcultures. Monolayers of epithelial cells showed junctional complex formation, the presence of keratin, and micro villi. Functional studies with Ussing chambers showed short circuit current (I
4296231|The presence of
4296885|Two endothelial cell lines were derived from grafts of the central nervous system using retrovirus mediated gene transfer to introduce the polyoma middle-T oncogene into fetal rat brain endothelial cells and transplantation of these cells into adult rat brain. In this report, we further characterize these cells and the effect of dexamethasone on the expression of specific enzymatic markers. These cells take up acetylated low density lipoprotein, leucine, and glucose, and express Factor VIII-related antigen, angiotensin converting enzyme, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase, and as yet undescribed aminopeptidase A and B-like enzymes. When grown on semi-permeable membranes, these transformed cells do not spontaneously retain small hydrophilic molecules. In culture, one of the lines (EC 193) forms a confluent monolayer of spindle-shaped cells homogenously expressing gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase at a level comparable to primary cells. The other cell line (EC 219) grows as clusters of elongated cells, and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity is expressed mainly in cells forming the clusters. This clustered pattern changes to a confluent one after culture on type-I collagen. Dexamethasone increases angiotensin-converting enzyme activity, and decreases the expression of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and aminopeptidase A, whereas the aminopeptidase B activity is little modified. Inhibition of aminopeptidase A activity by amastatin, potentiates angiotensin II effects on DNA synthesis. These results indicate that retrovirally transformed brain endothelial cells are a useful model for studying the blood-brain barrier in vitro and that dexamethasone, an agent with the potential to reduce brain edema, directly affects some blood-brain barrier properties in these endothelial cell lines.
4296883| Heterotypic cell-cell interactions appear to be involved in the control of development and function in a wide variety of tissues. In the vasculature, endothelial cells and mural cells (smooth muscle cells or pericytes) make frequent contacts, suggesting a role for intercellular interactions in the regulation of vascular growth and function. We have previously grown endothelial cells and mural cells together in mixed cultures and found that heterocellular contact led to endothelial growth inhibition. However, this mixed culture system does not lend itself to the examination of the effects of contact on the phenotype of the individual cell types. We have therefore developed a co-culture system in which cells can be co-cultured across a porous membrane, permitting intercellular contact while maintaining pure cell populations. Co-culture of endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells across membranes with pore sizes of 0.02, 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8 m maintained the two cell types as homogeneous populations, whereas smooth muscle cells migrated across the membrane through pores of 2.0 m. Vascular cell co-culture across membranes with 0.8-m pores resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation and the generation of conditioned media which inhibited endothelial cell growth. The arrangement of the cells in this co-culture system mimics the in vivo orientation of vascular cells in which mural cells are separated from the abluminal surface of the endothelium by a fenestrated internal elastic lamina or basement membrane. Because this co-culture system maintains separable populations of cells in contact or close proximity allowing for biochemical and molecular analyses of pure populations, it should prove useful for the study of cell-cell interactions in a variety of systems. 
4296542|Primary cultures of trophoblasts established from human term placentae showed high viability and reproducibility. Two-dimensional gel patterns obtained by metabolically labeling the trophoblasts with
4296571|The root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita Chitwood, is a pest of considerable agricultural and economic importance. As part of a study of this species, two diploid cell lines (2n = 32-36) were established in vitro on two different culture media. The two cultures were obtained from mature egg-laying females and were designated MI 8C and MI 5G. Descriptions are given of the techniques used for the preparation of the primary cultures, the media and the characteristics of the cell lines obtained. The doubling time of the population was estimated.
4296012|Normal human melanocytes, unlike pigment cells from metastatic melanomas, do not survive in culture in routine, serum-supplemented media. The search for natural growth factors for melanocytes has shown that mitogenic activity is ubiquitous in several tissues and in melanomas. Of several known growth factors tested, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was the only one mitogenic for melanocytes but only in the presence of cyclic-adenosine-monophosphate (cAMP) stimulators. The mitogenic activity toward melanocytes in tissues and melanoma cell extracts had high affinity for heparin and antibodies to bFGF synthetic peptides. These results suggest that one of the growth factors for melanocytes might be bFGF or a bFGF-like polypeptide and that autocrine production of bFGF-like molecules by melanoma cells may contribute to the malignant phenotype of melanocytes. Because acidic FGF (aFGF) did not stimulate growth, the receptors for bFGF on melanocytes might be significantly different from those for aFGF.
4296174|The response of the cellular components of the heart to cyclic mechanical stimulation is of particular importance because these cells are continually subjected to mechanical forces as a result of changes in blood volume and pressure. To directly investigate how mechanical tension affects these cellular components of the heart, an in vitro system that exposes the particular cell type (cardiac myocytes, endothelial cells, or fibroblasts) to a calibrated increase in cyclical linear stretch was developed. Cells were grown on silastic membranes coated with laminin and subjected to a 10% cyclical distention 10 times a minute for 72 h. Within 24 h of being exposed to the mechanical stretch, the cells became elongated and oriented perpendicular to the direction of the stretch. These results indicate that cyclical mechanical stimulation directly influences the cellular organization of the heart cells in vitro.
4296003|A helical mycoplasma, Spiroplasma mirum strain SMCA, produced malignant transformation in mouse NIH 3T3 cells and monkey kidney CV-1 cells. The transformed cells exhibited morphological changes consistent with the transformed phenotype, grew in soft agar and produced tumors in athymic and BALB/c mice. Transmission electron microscopy revealed structures morphologically similar to mycoplasmas present in the cytoplasm of transformed but not untransformed 3T3 cells. The time of inoculation of S. mirum SMCA to 3T3 cells and the passage level of 3T3 cells affected transformation.
4296826| The differentiation status in cultures of primary rat liver parenchymal cells was determined by measuring the activities of various xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes. Most enzyme activities dropped rather rapidly in monocultures of parenchymal cells. The protein content and the activities of cytosolic epoxide hydrolase, glutathione S-transferase, and -naphthol UDP-glucuronosyl transferase were, however, well stabilized in 7-day-old co-cultures of parenchymal cells with two different lines of rat liver nonparenchymal epithelial cells (NEC1 and NEC2). Phenol sulfotransferase and microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity were reduced in this coculture system after 7 days to about 30 and 20% of the initial activity. Generally, higher enzyme activities were measured in co-cultures with one specific epithelial cell line (NEC2) as compared to those with the other line (NEC1). C3H 10T 1/2 mouse embryo fibroblasts supported the parenchymal cells even better than the two epithelial lines, because the activity of microsomal epoxide hydrolase was also stabilized. Glutathione transferase activity was increased over time in this co-culture system. Our results show that the differentiation status of liver parenchymal cells was much better stabilized in co-cultures than in monocultures but that, depending on the type of cells used for co-culture, great quantitative differences existed. The entire pattern of xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme activities could not be stabilized at the kind of levels found in freshly isolated parenchymal cells. 
4296183|A sensitive method has been developed for visualizing eukaryotic cells in mitosis (M) phase. It employs Zenker's fixative, which makes the plasma membrane but not the nuclear envelope permeable to immunoglobulins. Zenker's-fixed cells are exposed to an antibody which recognizes a major constituent of chromatin. In this case the antibody is a monoclonal (MC 21) which recognizes histone H2b. Because cells in M phase do not have an intact nuclear envelope, the antibody has access to and interacts with their chromatin. The presence of a nuclear envelope in Zenker's-fixed interphase cells precludes access of the antibody to the nuclear chromatin. Consequently, this indirect immunofluorescence procedure selectively labels M-phase cells. At high enough magnification some details of the chromatin figures are revealed. MC 21 recognizes the chromatin of cells of many different species. With appropriate fixation it can be used effectively on cells in culture. With some procedural modifications it can also be used with more complex tissue systems. Detailed mitotic patterns for chick embryos up to Day 3 of development have been obtained by this method.
4295803| Milk protein gene expression was studied in cell subpopulations of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthraceneinduced rat mammary carcinoma cells enriched or depleted for casein production grown on attached collagen gels. Culture of these cells in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum, insulin (5 g/ml), hydrocortisone (10 g/ml), and prolactin (5 g/ml) maintained -, -, and -casein and whey acidic protein mRNAs at levels identical to cells isolated from perphehazine-treated rats. Whey acidic protein mRNA levels in the tumor cells relative to the 14-d lactating gland were greater than those of the casein mRNAs. Withdrawal of prolactin from the casein-producing cells resulted in the loss of all four milk protein mRNAs. Subsequent addition of prolactin to the withdrawn cells caused a rapid accumulation of these mRNAs to prewithdrawal levels. Milk protein gene expression in this tumor cell subpopulation is modulated by prolactin (in the presence of insulin and hydrocortisone) in a similar manner to that observed in the normal mammary gland when these tumor cells are cultured on attached collagen gels. 
4296424|Composition and interactions of cell types in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) liver digested with collagenase and cultured in serum-free media were investigated. Suspensions obtained after digesting trout liver with collagenase contained all the cell types present in the liver, including liver parenchymal cells (hepatocytes), biliary epithelial cells, sinusoidal endothelium, fat-storing cells of Ito, and macrophages. A major cell pellet, mainly hepatocytes but containing significant numbers of biliary epithelial cells, was obtained by centrifuging the cell suspension at 120 xg for 1 min. Cells present in this pellet quantitatively attached to culture plates coated with a trout skin extract and remain attached for 4 to 6 d with good retention of intracellular enzymes and DNA. When in culture, significant changes in and among the cells were observed. Initial preparations were rounded, single cells. Within several hours, however, cellular interactions leading to aggregation became evident and aggregates increased in size for 2 to 3 d. Scanning electron microscopy (EM) showed frequent shaftlike projections from margins of the aggregates. Transmission EM indicated that these projections represent biliary ductules forming in vitro. Adjacent hepatocytes also showed plasma membrane specializations forming junctional complexes and canaliculi characteristics of normal trout liver. After 5 to 6 d in culture, significant numbers of the cell aggregates dislodged from the plate. Analysis showed the dislodged cells were viable but vacuolated. The reestablishment in vitro of morphologic relationships resembling in situ tissue components suggest these culture preparations may have significant utility in cooperative metabolic studies of cell interactions in trout liver.
4296142|Human-human hybridomas derived from fusing lymph node lymphocytes with UC 729-6 were adapted to grow in commercially available serum-free medium and were compared with serum-supplemented [10% fetal bovine serum (FBS)] cultures. Over a 6-d period, no significant changes occurred in the growth of the cells in 10% FBS or serum-free medium. In cultures supplemented with 10% FBS more total proteins were secreted than in serum-free cultures. However, there was an enhanced secretion of three- to four-fold of both immunoreactive human IgG and IgM under serum-free conditions compared to serum-supplemented conditions. Serum-free conditions may provide the appropriate milieu for the increased level of Ig secretion from human hybridomas derived from UC 729-6 in that there are no inhibitors that may be present in serum.
4296110|The method of human gallbladder epithelial cell culture has been developed successfully with active mucus secretory function. Human gallbladder epithelial cells were dissociated by Dispase digestion from the specimens obtained by cholecystectomy for uncomplicated gallbladder stone cases. The dissociated cells formed a monolayer in Eagle's minimum essential medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum within 24 h after the inoculation. These cells were maintained for at least 2 wk without fibroblastic overgrowth. Cultured cells contained periodic acid Schiff-positive material in cellular cytoplasm for 3 d. On transmission electron microscopy these materials were identified as mucous secretory granules. Mucous secretory function was determined by
4296528| We surveyed several human cell lines for production of - and -human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) under a variety of conditions known to induce gene expression. - and -hCG subunits were monitored in culture media by specific radioimmunoassays and were shown to be quite sensitive to serum refeeding and growth state of all cell types studied. The permanent line JEG-3 secreted both - and -subunits whereas HeLa cells secreted only the -subunit. Production of both subunits was augmented in these permanent cell lines, for each growth state, by pretreating cells with 5-azacytidine; in contrast, spontaneous -hCG production by normal human fibroblasts (four of six strains) was only rarely increased after 5-azacytidine treatment, and more often was suppressed by 30 to 40%. Three of five strains from inherited chromosomal breakage syndromes produced immunoassayable -hCG spontaneously, two of which increased secretion upon treatment with either UV or mitomycin C. Surprisingly, one normal cell strain of fetal origin was induced to secrete -hCG, but not -hCG, after UV irradiation. JEG-3 and HeLa cells produced detectable cognate mRNA for - or -hCG subunits or both by Northern and S1 nuclease protection analyses, whereas such transcripts from untransformed human fibroblasts were consistently below detectable levels. Quantitation of -hCG mRNA by RNA:RNA annealing kinetics indicates that even the fibroblast strain producing the highest secreted -hCG levels contained cognate mRNAs at only ~0.1 copy per cell. We conclude that hCG expression in human fibroblasts is strongly repressed at the transcriptional level, although a variety of conditions (growth state, serum refeeding, cell senescence, or DNA damage) can affect the level of "leaky" expression, at least in some responding fraction of cells. 
4296024|To evaluate the role of animal age in chemically induced transformation, pancreatic cells were grown in culture 6 to 8 wk after injecting mice at either 6 or 22 mo. of age with a single dose of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (NMU). The cell type and the frequency with which lines were obtained from aged animals paralleled the frequency and pattern of tumor induction by NMU in vivo. Outgrowth of pancreatic explants from young animals required the presence of the tumor promoter 12-o-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate to establish continuously growing cell lines. Whereas NMU alone produced lines from aged mice, the promoter did not increase the frequency with which continuous lines were recovered from the aged animals. Of eight cloned cell lines (four young and four old), all had characteristics of transformed mouse pancreatic acinar cells when tested for lectin binding, lactate dehydrogenase isozyme pattern, chromosome number, and anchorage-independent growth. Cell lines derived from aged animals were slower growing and had higher chromosome numbers than lines derived from their younger counterparts.
4295883|Mouse lymphoma L1210 cells maintained in vitro at a high cell density for a certain time period adapted themselves to the in vitro environment and were able to grow indefinitely. From these adapted cells, more than 30 clones were isolated. They all had much higher activity to take up cystine than the original L1210 cells, supporting a previous view that the deficiency of the cystine uptake limits the survival and growth of L1210 cells in vitro. The cystine uptake of one cloned cell line was characterized. The enhanced uptake of cystine in these cells was mainly mediated by a
4296241| Studies were performed with cellulosic filters and standard culture plates to compare methods of cell culture and differentiation of the cell line PC12, a clone originating from a rat pheochromocytoma. PC12 cells respond to nerve growth factor (NGF) by flattening of the cell body and subsequent extension of neurite-like processes. When PC12 cells are cultured in dishes without NGF, they have a diameter of approximately 3 to 7 m and exhibit short processes of no longer than 3 to 5 m. If PC12 cells are grown on a cellulosic filter they have the same average soma diameter and similar short processes extending laterally, but in addition have branching processes which extend as far as 10 to 15 m into the filter substrate. When dish-cultured and filter-cultured cells are incubated with 50 ng/ml NGF they both exhibit differentiation-specific ultrastructural changes by 3 d of treatment. In the case of dish-cultured cells, large cytoplasmic processes exhibit an increase in the number of chromaffin cell-like secretory granules by 3 d of treatment. This characteristic is also demonstrated by filter-cultured cells, but the processes containing these granules are found concentrated within the cellulosic meshwork. Thus the timing of the NGF-elicited differentiation program is similar to both filter-cultured and dish-cultured cells, but the ultrastructural consequences are different. The filter-cultured PC12 cells exhibit a polarity not demonstrated by dish-cultured cells. Growing PC12 cells on cellulosic filters is a technique useful for "anchoring" neurons without the complication of the addition of extracellular matrix components. Filter-culture may represent a more in vivo-like method for studying neuronal growth and differentiation. 
4296319|Peripheral blood cultures were set up from male rats and humans in TC199, RPMI 1640, and minimal essential medium in the presence of 5-bromo,2-deoxyuridine and harvested at 48, 72, and 96 h. Mitotic indices were compared in the different media at all three harvest times, but cytokinetic patterns and baseline sister chromatid exchange (SCE) frequencies were evaluated exclusively in the 72- and 96-h cultures. In general, lymphocyte division kinetics, as determined by average lymphocyte division (ALD) numbers, were comparable between rat and human lymphocytes cultured in any of the three media and harvested at either of the culture times. The numbers of S CE s were distributed between and within the two systems independent of ALD numbers or the harvest time. Overall, no influence of media was detected on the distribution of SCEs. Despite a number of similarities in growth characteristics between rat and human lymphocytes, the rat lymphocyte test system has distinct advantages over that of the human because of the easy access to rat blood samples and the absence of the many restrictions applicable to humans.
4296416|Complimentary ribonucleic acid (cRNA) probes were used to detect expression of the genes for heparin binding (fibroblast) growth factor type one (HBGF-1) and two (HBGF-2) in cultured endothelial and smooth muscle cells from normal human blood vessels. Hybridization in situ revealed that transcripts for both HBGF-1 and HBGF-2 are expressed in endothelial cells from both umbilical vein and aorta. Relative intensity of radioactive grains suggest that HBGF-1 gene expression may exceed HBGF-2 expression in aortic smooth muscle cells. Collective expression of both HBGF-1 and HBGF-2 in smooth muscle cells may exceed that in endothelial cells.
4296343|Highly regenerative alfalfa genotypes selected in three different laboratories from 'Regen-S'/'Saranac' (3 genotypes) and 'Rangelander' (1 genotype) were cultured using tissue culture and regeneration protocols from two of the laboratories. Regeneration of progeny from crosses among the genotypes indicated that genotypes from Regen-S/Saranac have the same genetic control of regeneration, but the Regen-S/Saranac system may be at least partially different from the one in Rangelander. Significant interactions occurred between genotypes and culture protocols for both embryoid formation and conversion into plantlets. Moreover, interactions involving genotypes from Regen-S/Saranac were as different from each other as they were from the Rangelander genotype. The hypothesis that genotypes from the Saranac genetic background would regenerate equally well on both protocols was rejected. Factors in addition to genes controlling regeneration clearly influence genotype X culture-protocol interactions. The importance of evaluating final plantlet formation along with embryoid formation is discussed. A hybrid of two Regen-S derivatives in which 90% of the F
20171495|Due to limited growth potential of primary cultures and the absence of continuous lines of healthy enteric smooth muscle, we have studied the culture behavior of neoplastic gastrointestinal smooth muscle cells. Forty-six human enteric smooth muscle neoplasms (leiomyomas and leiomyosarcomas) were studied while fresh and/or after culture in vitro and growth in vivo in athymic nude mice, with assessments made of morphology, growth characteristics, and biochemical markers of differentiation. The state of differentiation of the tumors varied, with well-differentiated tumors tending to express binding sites for the gastrointestinal hormone cholecystokinin, whereas less well-differentiated tumors did not. Poorly differentiated tumors were the easiest to establish in culture in vitro and to grow in vivo in nude mice. When the cells placed directly into culture proliferated to confluent density, they underwent morphologic differentiation from a spread, fibroblastlike shape to a slender spindle morphology, with these cells possessing fewer biosynthetic organelles and arranging themselves in characteristic "hill and valley" arrays. However, the highly differentiated characteristics of expression of desmin or cholecystokinin-binding sites were not observed in cultured cells. In contrast, cells that had been passaged in nude mice before culture displayed a proliferative phenotype and failed to undergo morphologic differentiation on reaching confluent density. Four human enteric smooth muscle cell lines (documented by chromosomal analysis) originating in stomach, jejunum, ileum, and rectum were established using this strategy.
4295749|A new type of collagen surface for use with cultures of peripheral nervous system cells is described. Collagen is derivatized to plastic culture dishes by a cross-linking reagent, l-cyclohexyl-3-(2-morpholinoethyl)-carbodiimide-metho-p-toluenesulfonate (carbodiimide), to form a uniform and durable surface for cell attachment and growth that allows dry storage, long-term culture, and improved microscopy. Surfaces of collagen derivatized to plastic were compared to surfaces of adsorbed or ammonia-polymerized collagen in terms of collagen binding and detachment, growth by dorsal root ganglion cells, and electron microscopy appearances. Derivatized collagen surfaces retained more collagen and showed much less evidence of degradation and cellular damage over periods of many weeks than did conventional adsorbed surfaces. Long-term survival of cells on derivatized collagen was far superior to that on the other surfaces, with almost 90% of cultures still viable after 10 wk. Transmission electron microscopy showed an organized layer of single fibrils that supported cell growth well, and scanning electron microscopy demonstrated an increased uniformity of derivatized collagen surfaces compared to ammoniated collagen surfaces. Applications for this improved substrate surface are discussed.
20171365|Cell culture is a valuable method of evaluating the biocompatibility of new dental materials. The purpose of this study was to compare the in vitro biocompatibility of an experimental fluoride composite resin with fluoride and non-fluoride-releasing materials currently available. The dental materials tested were: MQ Silicate (silicate cement), KETAC-CEM and FUJI (type II glass ionomer cements), VISIO DISPERS (a light-cured, nonfluoridated, microfilled composite resin), and FR-17 (an experimental fluoride-releasing composite resin). The Smulow-Glickman (S-G) human gingival epithelial cell line, which exhibits semidifferentiated characteristics, was used in the study as a test system. Biocompatibility was quantified by counting the viable cells per unit area remaining after 24 and 48 h at two radial distances from cured specimens immersed in the cell culture medium. The test materials were observed to be most toxic to cells nearest the materials. A Time-Distance Cytotoxicity Index (TDCI) was calculated to related the percentage of dead cells to viable cells at each diffusion distance for each exposure time compared to a nontoxic control. The relative toxicity ranking of the materials tested based on the TDCI was VISIO DISPERS (91%), FUJI (82%), FR-17 (30%), MQ Silicate (23%), and KETAC-CEM (10%), which exhibited the least toxicity. The cytotoxicity of the experimental resin FR-17 was within the range of cytotoxicity of currently accepted restorative materials.
20171476|A mouse mammary tumor cell line, designated JC, has been established from a spontaneously developed primary adenocarcinoma of an aged virgin female BALB/c mouse. Isoenzyme analyses including glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, and peptidase proved that this cell line is of murine origin and devoid of contamination from other species. Karyotyping revealed that the number of chromosome ranged from 26 to 100, with a modal number of 40. Electron microscopic examination detected the presence of tonofilament and desmosomes confirming its epithelial nature. In addition, no type B or C virus particle was detected, although intracysternal A particle was observed occasionally. Tumorigenicity in immunocompetent syngeneic hosts was easily established by s.c., i.p., and i.v. injection of viable JC tumor cells. A very weak immunogenicity of the JC tumor was demonstrated through its immunization-challenging on syngeneic immunocompetent hosts. Although no rejection of JC tumor was noted, a significant prolongation for the incubation period before an obvious and palpable tumor growth was detected between the experimental and the control animals. Development of a concomitant immunity was also detected. The JC tumor represents a valuable murine mammary tumor model which is different from other available models because of its unique origin, absence of virus particles, very weak immunogenicity, and high tumorigenicity in syngeneic hosts. The cell line has been maintained for more than 5 yr and has been used for experimental immunotherapy in our laboratory.
20171587|Neonatal treatment with estrogens is associated with development of uterine adenocarcinomas in CD-1 mice. Treatment with the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) on Days 1 to 5 after birth results in 90% incidence of these hormone-dependent lesions in 18-mo.-old mice. Three cell lines were established from these DES-associated tumors. Each of these cell lines exhibited morphologic and ultrastructural characteristics of transformed epithelial cells, including an increased nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, enlarged and irregular nuclei with multiple nucleoli and areas of chromatin condensation, positive staining for cytokeratin, desmosomes, and microvilli. After subcutaneous injection into nude mice, all three cell lines formed solid tumors within 4 wk. Although the primary uterine tumors and tumor transplants in nude mice had been shown to be estrogen-dependent and estrogen-receptor positive, neither the monolayer growth nor the tumorigenicity of any of the three cell lines in this study was enhanced by or dependent on estrogen. Estrogen receptor levels were low in early and intermediate passage cells. Allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization analysis of PCR-amplified cell line DNA revealed no point mutations in the 12th, 13th, or 61st codons of the K-ras or H-ras protooncogenes. Southern analysis revealed no changes in genomic organization of the putative tumor suppressor gene DCC, but demonstrated a three- to four-fold amplification of the c-myc gene in one cell line. Expression of c-myc RNA was concomitantly increased in the same cell line. These three transformed cell lines represent the end point in the process of hormone-associated tumorigenesis and as such should prove useful in investigating the molecular changes and the mechanisms involved in hormonal carcinogenesis.
4296217|Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was measured in adult rat hepatocytes during either pure culture or coculture with another rat liver cell type in various media. Addition of nicotinamide, selenium, or dimethylsulfoxide, deprivation of cyst(e)ine and the use of two complex media were tested. Whatever the conditions used, after a constant decrease during the first 24 h, GST remained active over the whole culture period (1-2 wk). However, various patterns were observed: GST activity either remained relatively stable to approximately 50% of the initial value or showed a moderate or strong increase. The highest values were found in pure hepatocyte cultures maintained in the presence of nicotinamide or dimethylsulfoxide. Similar changes were observed using l-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or l,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates for GST. Addition of 10
4296884|Presumptive astrocytes isolated from 10-day white Leghorn chick embryos, Factor VIII-positive human brain capillary endothelial cells, meningeal fibroblasts from 10-day chick embryos, Swiss mouse 3T3 cells, and human astrocytoma cell lines, SKMG-1 and U373, were rendered quiescent when placed in culture medium that contained 0 or 0.2% serum for 48 h; their proliferation was markedly reduced and they incorporated [
4296156|A murine monoclonal antibody, VM-1, which binds to basal cells of normal human epidermis, reduces the ability of human squamous cell carcinoma cells (SCL-1) derived from the skin to attach and spread on collagen by about 50% and causes cell rounding. Similar effects have been previously shown using normal human keratinocytes. The attachment of cell lines derived from human lung squamous cell carcinomas (SW1271 and SW900), melanoma A375, glioblastoma 126, and fibrosarcoma HT1080 is also inhibited by this antibody. VM-1 antibody does not bind to normal human fibroblasts, benign nevus cells, or the human B-cell-derived line 8866. VM-1 antibody inhibits the growth of SCL-1 cells in vitro as measured by cell numbers and
4296107| Normal mouse vaginal epithelial cells isolated from ovariectomized ca. 35-d-old BALB/cCrgl mice were grown in primary culture using collagen gel matrix and a serum-free medium composed of a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Ham's F12 (D:H) medium supplemented with insulin (IN), epidermal growth factor (EGF), cholera toxin, transferrin, and bovine serum albumin V (BSA). Three-dimensional cellular outgrowths occurred inside the collagen gel matrix. The contribution of each factor to cell growth was examined by individual addition to the basic D:H medium and by individual deletion from the complete serum-free medium. When added individually, only IN promoted growth. Deletion of IN from the complete serum-free medium markedly diminished growth; deletion of EGF or BSA slightly diminished growth. When horse, fetal bovine, or chicken serum was added to the basal D:H medium, only with increasing doses of horse serum was there enhanced cell growth. The effect of 17-estradiol and diethylstilbestrol on the growth of cells was also tested, using a suboptimal medium of D:H supplemented with BSA and IN, or a minimal medium supplemented with IN alone. During the 8-d time period, addition of estrogen did not enhance cell growth in either medium. To date, we have been unable to demonstrate a mitogenic effect of estrogen; rather a dose-dependent inhibition of proliferation is seen. 
4296413|Ornithine  ketoglutarate (OKG) is largely used in clinical nutrition for its anabolic effects. However, the mechanism of its action remains questionable. We investigated the effect of OKG on the rate of DNA synthesis in human fibroblasts. The in vitro experimental procedure required to demonstrate in cell culture the anabolic effects of OKG observed in vivo was found to be glutamine-free and serum-poor medium with sparse cells. In these conditions, OKG induced a significant increase in [
4296171|Modulation of
4296866|The single and combined actions of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and osteogenin were evaluated with regard to induction of colony formation and reexpression of the differentiated phenotype by dedifferentiated rabbit articular chondrocytes in soft agarose under serum-free conditions. TGF-beta alone did not promote colony formation and induced accumulation of proteoglycans and type II collagen at significantly lower levels than those induced by osteogenin. Although synergism between these two growth factors occurred with respect to the induction of colony formation, their joint action on reexpression of the differentiated phenotype was additive. Complex interactions between the two growth factors may explain the latter phenomenon.
4296180|Animal cell growth factors stimulate expression of the proto-oncogenes c-myc and c-fos. The products of these genes seem to act as intracellular mediators of the mitogenic response to growth factors. Phosphatidyl inositol breakdown products function as cytoplasmic second messengers to induce transcription of c-myc and c-fos although they may not play an exclusive role in this regard. Post-transcriptional events may contribute to the modulation of c-myc gene expression. Following induction, the c-myc and c-fos mRNAs are selectively degraded within the cell.
4296145| We studied the effects of soluble and immobilized forms of plasma fibronectin on bovine aortic endothelial cell (AEC) proliferation and attachment. Soluble fibronectin stimulated AEC growth at 10 g/ml, but at higher concentrations of soluble fibronectin AEC growth was progressively inhibited. The growth rates of arterial smooth muscle cells (ASMC) and dermal fibroblasts (DF) were not altered by soluble fibronectin concentrations of 10 to 100  g/ml. Plasma fibronectin, immobilized by attachment to culture dish surfaces, had no significant effects on the proliferation of any of the cell types examined. The attachment rates of AEC were decreased in the presence of 50 g/ml soluble fibronectin. Immobilized fibronectin increased the rate of AEC attachment, but had no significant effects on ASMC or DF attachment; however, 12 h after plating there was nearly 100% attachment in all groups, whether or not fibronectin was present in the system. That soluble and immobilized fibronectins elicit disparate cellular responses is consistent with published reports of different cell surface receptors for different forms of the protein; in this manner, cells enmeshed in an interstitial matrix containing immobilized fibronectin could still respond to soluble fibronectin in the extracellular milieu. 
4295898|A stationary tissue culture system for reaggregation cultures of rat brain cells is described. Aggregates were formed by placing cells at high concentrations in liquid overlay cultures on a nonadherent nutrient agar surface. No physical stress in the form of rotation or shaking was applied to the aggregating cell population. Transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry showed that the cells developed from homogeneously dispersed, immature cells in Day 4 aggregates, to mature astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons in Day 20 aggregates. Twenty days and older aggregates had a tightly packed neuropil which was most prominent in a cell-sparse outer layer of the aggregates. When the aggregates were allowed to adhere to a substrate, both glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive and negative cells were observed migrating out from the aggregates. Cells giving a positive reaction for neuron specific enolase (NSE) were also present. This reaggregation procedure, with transfer of selected brain cell aggregates into agar-coated multiwells is an alternative three-dimensional culture system which can be potentially useful in the study of morphogenesis and cell interactions in the nervous system.
20171575|Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) is a cross-pollinated, autotetraploid crop, sold commercially as synthetic populations of plants. The production of hybrids offers the potential advantages of minimizing inbreeding depression, maximizing genetic heterozygosity, and providing a uniform, consistent phenotype, which potentially will lead to improvements in yield, persistence, disease tolerance, and quality. The use of artificial seed technology in alfalfa will allow the mass propagation of parental, self-sterile lines for the commercial production of hybrids. The ability to dry somatic embryos as artificial seeds provides the added advantages of long term germplasm storage, and international transport of pathogen free clones. The cell culture system described maximizes the production of synchronized somatic embryos, and minimizes somaclonal variation. These somatic embryos can be induced to acquire desiccation tolerance by treatment with ABA or any one of several environmental stresses, including water and nutrient stresses, if applied to the embryos at the cotyledonary stage of development. The embryos have been subsequently air dried slowly (over 7 days) or rapidly (over 1 day) to moisture contents less than 15% water and remain fully viable. Dry somatic embryos have been stored with no loss of viability for 8 months at room temperature and humidity. Dry somatic embryos are germinated on moist germination paper and follow a similar developmental pattern to seedlings from true seed, but are less vigorous. The development of populations of alfalfa which carry genes for regeneration as well as having suitable agronomic characteristics is possible using conventional plant breeding methods.
4296322|Single cells were obtained from hypocotyl-derived callus of Lavandula latifolia Medicus. Cells were plated in Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with indoleacetic acid (IAA), benzyladenine (BA), and several IAA-BA combinations. Cell division required the simultaneous presence of IAA and BA in the culture medium, but callus formation was only achieved with 0.1 or 1 mg/liter IAA and 2 mg/liter BA. To induce organogenesis, calli were transferred to various regeneration media. Shoot-bud differentiation efficiency depended on the composition of both the callus induction and the shoot regeneration media, best results being obtained when calli grown in 1 mg/liter IAA and 2 mg/liter BA were subcultured to media containing 2 mg/liter BA and 15% coconut milk. Under these conditions, up to 75% of calli formed shoots that subsequently were rooted and established in soil.
4296717|Primary cultures of mouse neural precursor cells were established by enzymatic dissociation of embryonic Day 10 fetal heads followed by negative selection of non-neural contaminating cells. The latter were allowed to attach and spread on a plastic substrate under conditions that permitted neural precursor cells to remain suspended in the culture medium. The resulting neuroepithelial cell enriched suspension then was plated on dishes coated with poly-D-lysine. Growth of fibroblastic cells was inhibited in a selective medium. Cell proliferation was measured by immunoperoxidase staining of nuclei after bromodeoxyuridine labeling. The proportion of labeled cells declined from 50% on Day 1 until Day 5 when it approached zero, and after 7 days in culture a fourfold increase in cell number was achieved in medium containing 1% fetal bovine serum, transferrin, insulin, cholera toxin, and sodium selenite. Differentiation of neural precursor cells was studied by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy for the appearance of neuron- and astrocyte-specific cytoskeletal proteins at successive intervals in culture. Cells bearing neuritic processes and expressing neurofilaments as well as microtubule-associated protein 2 were present in low numbers on Day 1, increasing through Day 14. Stellate cells with morphologic features of astrocytes and immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein were not detected until Day 5 and did not become abundant until Day 11. No differences in morphology or immunocytochemical staining characteristics were found between neural precursor cells processed by enzymatic dissociation of whole fetal heads and those recovered by manual dissection of fetal neuroepithelia. The large number of neural precursor cells obtained by this rapid, simple method makes possible the production of mass cultures for molecular analysis of the regulatory factors that control proliferation and differentiation during early development of the mouse central nervous system.
4296570|The protease activity in serum-free conditioned medium of chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells was measured using peptidyl (or aminoacyl)-4-methylcoumaryl-7-amides (MCAs) as the substrates. Aminopeptidase increased in level as amounts of nonviable cells increased during cultivation in serum-free medium, indicating that the activity seems to be originated from intracellular proteases. The activity toward Boc-Leu-Arg-Arg-MCA, which was strongly inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzonate and N-ethylmaleimide, was the strongest among those toward peptidyl-MCAs in the conditioned medium within 48 h-cultivation in serum-free medium. In contrast to the case of aminopeptidase activity, the endopeptidase activity decreased in level after 48 h-cultivation although amounts of nonviable cells increases. Thus, CHO cells continuously secrete the cysteine proteases.
20171399|We screened for immunoglobulin (Ig) production stimulating factor (IPSF) which enhanced Ig production of human-to-human hybridomas in serum-free culture, and found that culture supernatant and lysate of human lymphoblastoid Namalwa cells stimulated proliferation and Ig production of human-to-human hybridoma HB4C5 cells. The IPSF in Namalwa lysate was partially purified with DEAE-Toyopearl 650M, hydroxylapatite and Superose 6HR 10/30 column chromatographies. The partially purified IPSF was a macromolecule of about 500 000 dalton containing 72 000 dalton protein as a major component. The activity was stable at pH 6 to 12, but inactivated partially by heating over 40 C (60% decrease) and completely by trypsin digestion. These results suggest that the IPSF activity is due to its protein and heat-stable components. The Namalwa IPSF stimulated proliferation of human-to-human hybridomas but not that of mouse-to-mouse hybridomas. The IPSF also stimulated Ig production of human-to-human hybridomas derived from NAT-30 cells, but not that of other human-to-human or mouse-to-mouse hybridomas. NAT-30 is a human fusion partner derived from Namalwa cells. These results suggest that the Namalwa IPSF is an autocrine factor that stimulates proliferation and Ig production of hybridomas derived from NAT-30 cells.
4295793|A continuous m urine cell line (GRX) was obtained from fibrotic granulomas induced in C3H/HeN mice liver by experimental infection with Schistosoma mansoni. This anchorage-dependent line produces composite connective tissue/extracellular matrix, displays morphological characteristics of myofibroblasts, and can, under appropriate conditions, accumulate fat droplets. GRX cells produce viral particles of retrovirus type. We consider GRX cell line to be representative of liver connective tissue cells, responsible for fibroplasia in liver fibrotic and granulomatous reactions.
4296296|Primary cultured epithelial cells derived from the rat dorsolateral prostate proliferated in serum-free nutrient medium WAJC 404 supplemented with mitogens: insulin (650 nM), cholera toxin (120 pM), epidermal growth factor (EGF) (2.5 nM), dexamethasone (300 nM), and bovine pituitary extract (25 g/ml). The culture consisted of two types of epithelial cell colonies: one originated from single cells or small cell aggregates and the other was epithelial cell outgrowth from small tissue fragments attached to a substratum. There were differences in requirements for the mitogens between the two types of colonies. Requirements for cholera toxin, bovine pituitary extract, and dexamethasone were higher in the former type of colonies, and those for EGF were higher in the latter type of colonies. Proliferation of the epithelial cells in either type of colony was suppressed more than 50% by 1 nM dihydrotestosterone. This suppressive effect was not mediated by stromal component in the tissue fragments, and was counteracted by cyproterone acetate, indicating specific and direct action of the androgen on prostate epithelial cells. The results suggest that there is discrete participation of polypeptide growth factors and androgen in proliferation and differentiation, respectively, of prostate epithelial cells in vivo.
4296462| A lymphoma cell line (MCC) was derived from an abdominal mass from a 13-yr-old castrated male cat. The cells resemble natural killer precursor cells, have membrane-bound granules, and are positive for chloroacetate esterase, -naphthyl butyrate esterase, and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase activities. The MCC cells are negative for rearranged feline T-cell receptor genes, negative for feline T-cytotoxic antigen, Ia, and surface , , and lambda chains and do not form E-rosettes. The MCC cell line is negative for the feline leukemia virus (FeLV); e.g., negative for exogenous FeLV (exU3) sequences, negative for cytoplasmic and surface FeLV major core protein of 27 000 daltons (p27) by indirect immunofluorescence assay, negative for helper FeLV by clone 81 assay, and negative for release of soluble FeLV p27 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Electron microscopy reveals budding type C retrovirus particles and MCC cells react with anti-RD-114 (anti-endogenous feline retrovirus) reference serum. After in vitro infection, MCC replicate FeLV readily, but replication is noncytopathic. 
20171568|We present a practical method for the rescue of previously stable hybridoma clones which increases the proportion of desired cells in the population before cloning by limiting dilution. When the antibody activity of a culture supernatant was lower than that previously obtained, a precloning distribution at a density of 10 cells per microtiter well greatly improved the chances of obtaining a single active clone by subsequent limiting dilution. The Poisson distribution model was used to evaluate the method. Probabilities calculated clearly demonstrate the advantage of this precloning distribution step when attempting to isolate a hybridoma cell line that is relatively rare in a population.
4296122|Tyrosinase activity increased in Cloudman S-91 mouse melanoma cell homogenates incubated at 37 C for a minimum of 8 h. Enzyme activity continued to increase for 48 h at which time the maximal level of activation was observed. Activation did not occur at 4 C and did not occur in the cytosol fraction of the cell, suggesting that the response was localized to melanosomes. The activated enzyme was resistant to solubilization with the nonionic detergent, Triton X-100, and preparation of homogenates in this detergent did not inhibit the temperature-dependent activation of the melanosomal fraction of the cell. The activation process increased the
4296614| To further examine the effects of purified Haemophilus influenzae type b lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on blood-brain barrier permeability, we have developed an in vitro model of the BBB. Microvascular endothelial cells were isolated from rat cerebral cortices by enzymatic digestion, dextran centrifugation, and separation on percoll gradients. The cells were determined to be endothelial in origin by positive fluorescent staining for Factor VIII-related antigen and the ability to take up acetylated low density lipoproteins, and their cerebral origin by the formation of junctional complexes in vitro. Cells were seeded onto semipermeable polycarbonate filters and permeability assessed by measuring traversal of radioactive albumin across the monolayer. Treatment of the cells with LPS at concentrations of 1.0 g/ml and 0.1 g/ml for 4 h led to statistically significant increases in albumin permeability of 4.6% (P = 0.001) and 5.6% (P < 0.001), respectively, without evidence of cell death as assessed by release of lactate dehydrogenase into the media. These results indicate that LPS significantly increases albumin permeability across a monolayer of cerebral microvascular endothelial cells in the absence of host inflammatory cells. Future studies on the effects of LPS on intracellular regulation will determine the mechanisms responsible for these alterations. 
4296527|A novel protein-free synthetic medium has been developed for the culture of human squamous cell carcinoma cells. This medium, designated PF86-1, supports the serial subcultivation of six out of nine human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in a protein-free, chemically defined condition without the adapting culture from serum-containing conditions. These cell lines growing in PF86-1 exhibited nearly equal potency to grow in massive culture without noticeable changes in morphology but presented a significantly decreased level of colony forming efficiency when compared with the cells cultured in serum-containing media, suggesting the implication of some autocrine mechanism. Interestingly, this medium supported the growth of normal human squamous cells of oral mucosa and skin for more than 2 mo. in the primary explant culture in spite of high levels of calcium ion concentration, where the overgrowth of fibroblasts as contaminant was not observed. These results suggest that PF86-1 supports the growth of cells derived from epidermal tissues selectively and provides the same defined condition for growth of malignant and nonmalignant human squamous cells. It seems, therefore, that PF86-1 allows investigations on the products of squamous cell carcinoma cells or on the differences of growth mechanisms between normal and neoplastic human squamous cells.
20171428| Human adrenal carcinoma cells (SW-13) produce and secrete autocrine growth factors. We now report that these cells secrete a factor that is biologically related to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Serum-free medium conditioned by SW-13 cells stimulated incorporation of tritiated thymidine into DNA by quiescent Balb/c 3T3 cells in the presence of platelet-poor plasma. The conditioned media also competed with I-labeled PDGF for binding to PDGF receptors on human fibroblasts. Hybridization studies identified mRNA transcripts for PDGF-2/sis chains in logarithmically growing SW-13 cells. These data suggest secretion of PDGF-like mitogens by SW-13 cells. 
4296038|Lung organ culture has been a widely used system for studying differentiation and maturation of alveolar epithelium through various culture conditions. The purpose of this work was to carefully characterize in vitro lung biochemical differentiation through isolation of surfactant fraction from tissue and to search for optimal culture conditions. Fetal rat lung was explanted on the 18th gestational day for studying glycogen storage, and on the 20th gestational day for studying surfactant accretion, and cultivated for 48 h. Morphologic differentiation was studied by electron microscopy on tissue explanted on the 17th or 18th gestational days and cultivated for various times. Glycogen storage was greater on fluid medium, although less than occurring in vivo. Cellular integrity and surfactant accumulation were maximal on a semisolid medium containing 0.5% agar. Use of
4296618|The skin comprises three layers: epidermis, dermis, and hypodermis. We report here on a skin, reconstructed in vitro, that is composed of all three layers. The topmost layer, epidermis, was exposed to air by a new method. The exposure induced an extensive proliferation, and differentiation, i.e. keratinization was eventually observed in the cultured epidermal cells. Skin thus cultured will be a useful graft of transplantation and provide an ideal model system in which to study diseases of the skin.
4295999|Morphological studies of the WISH cell line reveal an epithelioid cell type with some characteristics of both the original human amnion epithelium and a transformed state. WISH cells have a cytoplasm filled with microtubules; however, actin filament bundles are few, with actin localized at areas of cell contact and arranged diffusely through the cytoplasm, as viewed by indirect immunofluorescence. Fingerlike projections or short filopodia are observed connecting cells that grow in a closely apposed monolayer. Other surface features, as viewed by scanning electron microscopy, include microvilli and blebs. Transmission electron microscopy shows that WISH cultures consist of light or dark cells with organelles that include lipid droplets, abundant free ribosomes, tubular mitochondria, lysosomes, annulate lamellae, rough endoplasmic reticulum, 6-nm microfilaments, 10-nm intermediate filaments, and microtubules. Pleomorphic nuclei with multiple nucleoli and fibrillar nuclear bodies are common. Desmosomes and subsurface confronting cisternae connect cells. To our knowledge, these structural studies are the first to describe WISH and lead to subsequent investigation of the cell surface phenomenon of blebbing and surface charge in WISH and another human cell line.
4295785|A culture system for honeybee fat body and ovary was developed that supported optimal levels of protein synthesis by the explanted tissues. Abdominal body wall preparations of honeybee workers and queens, with adhering fat body, and ovaries of egg-laying queens were incubated in a culture medium designed to match honeybee hemolymph composition as closely as possible. Incorporation of
4296201|The immune suppressed lizard, Anolis carolinensis, can be used to test for in vivo tumor production by cell lines derived from a variety of ectothermic vertebrates. Cell lines tested for tumor production were also assessed for loss of attachment-dependent proliferation and contact inhibition of cell overlap. The results demonstrate that the criteria standardly used to assess transformation and neoplastic change in cultured mammalian cells apply equally well to cultured cells from ectotherms.
20171465| Data from our in vitro studies indicate a new source of prolactin (PRL)-like activity, normal human connective tissue. Fascial cells from primary culture and subsequent passages produced an extracellular antigen which specifically reacted in a radioimmunoassay RIA developed to detect human pituitary PRL. An initial peak or first surge of fascial PRL-like activity occurred between 4 and 15 d in primary culture. Ibuprofen, cytotoxic levels of 0.01% azide, or 7.5 mM EDTA and medium lacking serum [fetal bovine serum (FBS)] significantly (P  0.05) reduced PRL-like activity levels, whereas female steroids, 257 to 342 milliosmolarity, 1 to 3.6 mg/ml glucose, 2 to 20% FBS, and dialyzed FBS (MWCO 1 kDa) were without effect. Optimum production of PRL-like activity occurred at pH 7.3. A second surge began after 18 d and continued until passage indicating that perhaps two populations of cells produced PRL-like activity in primary culture. Production of PRL-like activity by cells from early passages (1 and 2) became detectable at confluence, was serum-dependent, showed two patterns (tonic, rising to plateau), and averaged 3.2 fgcell3 d feed interval. Cells from late passages showed morphologic damage from repetitive trypsinization, agring, and reduced production of PRL-like activity with aberrant production pattern. Production of PRL-like activity was maintained in an unusual long-term culture. These in vitro studies demonstrate the most recently recognized and ubiquitous source of human extrapituitary PRL or PRL-like activity, normal connective tissue (fascia). 
20171537|Gyrate atrophy (GA), a degenerative disease of the human chorioretina, is associated with a deficiency of ornithine aminotransferase (OAT) activity, hyperornithinemia, and ornithinuria. We have characterized a cDNA clone for OAT (HLOAT) that was isolated from a cDNA library constructed from mRNA prepared from Hep G2 cells, a human hepatoma cell line. We have used HLOAT and a nearly full length OAT cDNA clone isolated from a rat liver library (RLOAT) to examine in cultured fibroblasts from individuals with GA and control individuals, the expression of OAT mRNA and the gross structure of the OAT gene. Northern blot analyses of total cellular RNA indicated that 3 of 3 control cell lines and 5 of 6 GA cell lines are capable of expressing an OAT related mRNA of approximately 2100 bases, the size of OAT mRNA. To date, this is the only case of GA in which a complete lack of OAT mRNA has been observed. Southern blot analyses of DNA isolated from these cell lines indicated that the gross structure of the OAT gene is usually not detectably altered in individuals with GA. However, a unique pattern of restriction fragments was observed upon digestion with Eco RI or Hind III of DNA from the GA cell line that does not express OAT mRNA. These unique Eco RI and Hind III fragments arise from the OAT structural gene and will serve as useful molecular markers that allow this particular defective OAT allele to be identified. When the cellular DNAs were digested with Hinf I and examined with a probe that corresponds to at least a portion of the active site of the enzyme, i.e., the pyridoxal phosphate binding site, identical patterns of fragments were detected in all samples. Therefore, it appears unlikely that the loss of OAT activity associated with these GA cases, 4 of which are pyridoxal phosphate responders, is the result of insertions or deletions in this region of the OAT gene. This study indicates that the lack of OAT enzyme activity associated with GA is the result of a variety of different molecular defects within the OAT gene.
20171391| A culture system is described in which rat kidney proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTE) can be prepared with good yield and high viability and grown in culture under serum-free conditions. The cells require EGF, insulin, cholera toxin and either 1% dialyzed serum or a complex of bovine serum albumin with oleic acid (BSA/OA). The cells can be maintained for long periods of time and express several markers for RPTE. The cells have both alkaline phosphatase and -glutamyltransferase activity and respond to parathyroid hormone but not vasopressin. The specific activity of -glutamyltransferase decreases when the cells begin to grow, but increases when they reach confluence. Extracellular calcium plays a role in the induction of -glutamyltransferase in confluent cells. Cells grown in media containing low calcium, i.e. less than 0.4 mM, have reduced specific activity of -glutamyltransferase. Extracellular calcium also alters the morphology of the cells in that cells grown in low calcium are single cells or loose clusters suggesting poor cell-cell contact. When the calcium is raised to 1.0 mM, the cells change their shape and organization to adopt the morphology of cells maintained continuously in 1.0 mM calcium. The cells can be passaged onto plastic surfaces which have been coated with collagen but cannot be subcultured on uncoated or serum coated plastic. This culture system will be a useful model for the investigation of renal carcinogenesis and the role of cell proliferation in that process. 
4295794|A new type of microcarrier was described using bead emulsion-polymerization techniques. An aqueous solution of gelatin and glutaraldehyde was dispersed in a hydrophobic phase of mineral oil, using Triton x-114 as an emulsifier, and polymerization was initiated. The resultant spherical beads, composed entirely of gelatin, showed excellent mechanical stability to ethanol drying, sterilization, and long-term use in microcarrier spinner cultures. The solid gelatin microcarriers supported the growth of L-929 fibroblast, swine aorta endothelial, human umbilical endothelial, and
4295941| The effect of laminin (LN) on the attachment and differentiation of a human retinoblastoma cell line (Y-79) was investigated. We found that 10 g/ml LN in the serum-free culture medium for 3 to 4 d induces 20 to 30% of the cells to firmly attach to a plastic substratum. This effect seems to be complex because the short-term effect of LN is inhibition of cell attachment. The specificity of LN may be indicated because antilaminin antibody counteracted this effect. The attached cells form small processes immediately after attachment and continue to proliferate, forming small colonies. Treatment of these cells with 4 mM dibutyryl-cyclic AMP (db-cAMP) or 2 mM sodium butyrate starting on the 3rd or 4th d of culture results in extensive differentiation of all the attached cells. Db-cAMP provokes the formation of long ramifying neuritelike processes whereas butyrate induces the appearance of epithelial-like cells with a flat morphology. Thus, laminin seems to act in concert with other agents promoting attachment and potentiating differentiation. 
4295820|Isolated hepatocytes from adult rat liver were prepared after dissociation of the liver with EDTA. The morphological appearance, viability (94.5%) and yield (
4296673|Neural crest cells from both white mutant and dark (wildtype) axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum) were cultured in increasing concentrations of fetal bovine serum (FBS; 2 to 20%). For each explant, the total number of cells that migrated and the percent of differentiated melanophores were recorded. At concentrations of FBS above 2% melanophore differentiation was essentially equivalent (32 to 59%) for both the white and dark neural crest cultures, but subtle differences in cell behavior and differentiation were found between the two phenotypes. By contrast there was a significant difference in the percent melanization of cells in serum-free control cultures, wherein melanophore differentiation in dark neural crest cultures was, on average, 18% compared to 5% in white cultures. Thus, contrary to all previously published work, white and dark neural crest cells are not intrinsically equivalent. Our culture results are discussed with regard to the probable in vivo conditions that cause the white phenotype.
4296935|Chimeric DNA expression vectors containing regulatory sequences proximal to the 5' end of coding sequences for mammalian genes provide valuable tools to study gene expression. Genes coding for easily measured products (reporter genes) can be used to study promoter strength and regulation of gene expression after transient expression of promoter-reporter constructs in mammalian cells. To determine the strength of a variety of mammalian and viral promoter-enhancer sequences in primary cultures of human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC), these sequences were fused to the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene and transfected into HMEC using strontium phosphate. The long terminal repeat (LTR) of the endogenous murine leukemia virus AKR-623 was the most potent promoter of transient CAT expression in HMEC. A number of commonly available promoter sequences displayed a wide range of activities in these cells. The glucocorticoid responsive LTR promoter from the murine mammary tumor virus modulated expression of CAT and was sensitive to the concentration of dexamethasone in the growth media. In a similar fashion, the regulatory sequences from the murine metallothionein-1 gene retained responsiveness to zinc concentration in the growth media.
20171535|Mandibular first molars from 17-d-old mouse embryos were cultured in vitro for 2 to 4 d by a simple, disposable, improved floatation method. This method consisted of using a 24-well multidish and a plastic culture chamber with a membrane filter. The improved floatation method, as well as our previous method, was capable of the three-dimensional development of tooth germs. Cytodifferentiation of odontoblasts and ameloblasts and formation of extracellular matrices were accelerated by the present culture system, in comparison with our previous method. All the molars cultivated by this method were very similar in morphology to in vivo. On Day 2 of culture the terminal cytodifferentiation of odontoblasts and the formation of predentin were ascertained in the bucco-lingual sections of the cultured molars. A thick layer of predentin was formed at the tip of the cusp and gradually decreased toward the cervical loop and the fissure between the buccal and lingual cusps. On Day 4 in vitro, secretory ameloblasts produced enamel matrix, and the mineralized enamel showed prismatic structure very similar to that in vivo. Dentin and predentin also were normal in ultrastructure. The extracellular matrices (enamel, dentine, and predentin) were formed in line with the pattern of the cusp and the formation of matrices normally started at the tip of the cusp. We conclude that the three-dimensional development of whole tooth germs in vitro may be very important for normal expression of the developmental program intrinsic to mouse embryonic molars.
20171507| Human proximal tubule kidney cells grown in a serum-free tissue culture medium were exposed to concentrations of CdCl in a range of 0.5 to 10 g/ml. Cells were observed from 1 to 20 d upon initiation of cadmium in the culture fluid. Both confluent and subconfluent populations of cells were treated and evaluated for cytotoxicity. Both populations exhibited a concentration-dependent toxicity to ionic cadmium. For cells treated with 2.0 to 10 g/ml Cd, the decreases in cell numbers were largely irreversible. However, cells treated with Cd in a range of 0.5 to 1.0 g/ml exhibited a partial recovery of cell number and control morphology. In this range, recovery was more efficient in the subconfluent cultures. Fine structural alterations in Cd-treated tubule cells included condensation of nuclear chromatin, loss of microvilli structure, disorganization of lateral membrane interdigitation, as well as decreased uptake of aminoglycoside antibiotics as evidenced by decreased numbers of myeloid bodies in these cells. The results of this study imply that use of a human proximal tubule culture system has potential in discerning structural and functional effects of cadmium as well as other nephrotoxic metals and compounds on the human kidney. 
4296466|We have developed a method that separates rat adrenocortical cells by density into populations which retain zone specific properties in primary culture. Two different parenchymal populations were obtained and designated 2FASC (1.034 g/ml,
4296062|Using gelatin, casein, and fibronectin as substrates and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), we have identified protein-degrading enzymes in both normal and Rous sarcoma virus-transformed primary avian tendon cells. Although there are some consistent differences in the profile of the gelatinolytic activities (mainly metalloproteinases) between normal and transformed cells, the amounts of fibronectin-degrading activities seem to be comparable. In vitro studies reported here demonstrate that the degradation of fibronectin is partially and specifically inhibited by gelatin and collagen. We therefore propose that the abundant collagen present in normal tendon cells protects fibronectin against degradation. Conversely, in transformed cells, where collagen levels are drastically reduced, fibronectin may be more accessible to degradation. Thus differences in the steady-state levels of fibronectin on normal and transformed cells may be, at least in part, a consequence of changes in collagen levels.
4296378|The proximate cholesterol precursors lathosterol, 7-dehydrocholesterol and desmosterol supported the growth of NS-1 and X63 mouse myeloma cells. These cells and X63.653 cells are cholesterol auxotrophs, yet each was able to convert
4296823|Synthetic oligopeptides were used to study the specificity of the interaction between heparin and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) in competition experiments. DNA synthesis in PDGF-dependent human arterial smooth muscle cell (hASMC) cultures was used as a biological tracer of PDGF activity. Oligo-108-124 (corresponding to amino acid residues 108-124 of the long PDGF A-chain isoform) had no effect on DNA synthesis in itself but competed at
4295908|An easily prepared and stable protein fraction from chick egg yolk promotes cell division (40 h generation time) and expression of procollagen (60% of total protein synthesis) in primary avian tendon cells in a serum-free medium. The activity of this yolk fraction (YF) is proteinaceous as reflected by its sensitivity to protease treatment. Yolk fraction is resolved into four major components on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with apparent molecular weights of 82,70,42,35 ( 10
4296784|The role of collagen in microvascular growth was investigated using the aortic ring model of angiogenesis. Collagen production by vasoformative outgrowths in plasma clot culture of rat aorta was either stimulated with ascorbic acid or inhibited with the proline analogue cis-hydroxyproline. Microvessels proliferating in the absence of ascorbic acid supplements became ectatic and developed large lumina. In contrast, newly formed microvessels in the presence of ascorbic acid remained small and maintained thin lumina throughout the angiogenic process. Biochemical studies demonstrated enhanced collagen production and deposition in cultures treated with ascorbic acid. Ultrastructural studies of these cultures showed a marked increase in newly formed interstitial collagen in the perivascular matrix and in regions of the plasma clot containing nonendothelial mesenchymal cells. Small microvessels with thin lumina similar to the ones observed in ascorbic acid-treated plasma clot cultures were obtained by growing aortic explants in gels of interstitial collagen in the absence of ascorbic acid. Inhibition of collagen production with the proline analogue cis-hydroxyproline had a marked anti-angiogenic effect in both plasma clot and collagen gel cultures. The anti-angiogenic effect of cis-hydroxyproline was abolished by adding L-proline to the culture medium, thereby restoring normal metabolism. These results support the hypothesis that angiogenesis is regulated by collagen production and suggest that the size of newly formed microvessels is influenced by the degree of collagenization of the extracellular matrix.
4296323|Histologic examination of shoot-tip explants, 1 wk after culture initiation on Murashige and Skoog medium with 2.5 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.05 mg/liter kinetin, reveals active meristematic centers inside cultured tissue. Clusters of cells in these meristematic centers exhibit remarkable resemblance to the initial three divisions in the zygotic embryo. Several such meristematic groups of cells are observed in the cultured explant at this stage. Embryogenesis is obviously initiated very early in this tissue in the presence of 2,4-D. A well-defined, white globular embryogenic callus develops in culture in about 4 wk, and it consists of clusters of embryoids with large cells characterized by thick cell walls, numerous lipoidal vesicles, and localized areas of carbohydrate storage. These cells resemble the scutellar tissue of the embryo. However, there are cells within this tissue that themselves appear embryogenic. They undergo cell division giving rise to small clusters of cells. As long as 2,4-D is present in the medium, the cells apparently retain the capacity to proliferate and to produce more cells capable of embryogenesis. Embryogenesis seems to occur via two processes, initiation of somatic embryos early in culture and secondary embryogensis from the scutellar tissue that forms in vitro.
4296810|The purpose of this investigation was to provide evidence for the secretion of high molecular weight mucins, CTM-A and CTM-B, in primary culture of canine tracheal epithelial (CTE) cells. The cells were isolated from tracheas of mongrel dogs by pronase treatment. Primary cultures of the epithelial cells were established using ICN cellagen inserts in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's/F12 medium supplemented with growth factors and could be maintained for up to 23 days. The evidence for the mucin secretion in culture medium and their localization in the cells was established by a) positive immunocytochemical staining using specific antibodies developed against purified native as well as deglycosylated CTM-A and CTM-B; b) incorporation of labeled amino acids, followed by electrophoresis and autoradiography detection of glycoconjugates purified from the culture medium; c) comparison of the amino acid compositions of mucin purified from canine tracheal pouch secretions and that purified from the culture medium; and d) Western blot analyses using specific polyclonal antibodies directed against deglycosylated CTM-A and CTM-B. Immunoaffinity purified secreted labeled glycoconjugates were resistant to hyaluronidase treatment. The effects of cyclic AMP (1  10
4296397|When areas of research become interdisciplinary their jargon, techniques and bodies of information are utilized widely in diverse disciplines. At such times, reciprocal use of terminology by individuals who had not previously used it is often misused and, therefore, confusion occurs. This confusion is especially acute in the field of vertebrate, invertebrate and plant cell culture. There is hardly a field of biological investigation in which culturing of such cells is not employed. Similarly, molecular biology and molecular genetics are lending their technology to an everwidening group of researchers who are communicating in a more global sense via scientific presentations, publications and research proposals. Unfortunately often the writer and reader represent different areas of specialization who have been brought together by the common technology used in their work. As such, misuse of terminology can prove unfortunate indeed; anything from inability to repeat a piece of research to problems in publishing a paper or obtaining funding of a research proposal. The following glossary, approved by the Tissue Culture Association Terminology Committee is published in an effort to increase communication between scientists and between scientists and the lay community.
4296617|We have investigated the regulation of the two normal differentiation pathways followed by laryngeal epithelium. Using a tissue culture system that permits growth of cells at the air-liquid interface in serum-free medium, we found that modulating the concentration of retinoic acid is sufficient to determine which pathway is used. At
4296954| A novel culture technique, which supports the growth and differentiation of mouse embryonic palatal epithelial cells in the absence of either an extracellular matrix substratum or feeder layers, has been developed. Using this technique we have investigated the effects of exogenous transforming growth factor alpha (TGF) and serum on extracellular matrix biosynthesis by primary cultures of mouse embryonic epithelial sheets under defined experimental conditions. In all culture treatments (chemically defined medium with and without TGF or serum) the palatal epithelial sheets differentiated into three regionally distinct cell phenotypes after 36 h. Nasal and oral cells differentiated into pseudostratified, cilliated columnar, and stratified squamous keratinizing epithelium, respectively. In addition, basal medial edge epithelial (MEE) cells at the oral/nasal regional interface assumed an elongated cobblestoned phenotype. In serum-free medium, collagen types IV and V, laminin, fibronectin, and heparan sulphate proteoglycan were detected immunocytochemically throughout the entire epithelial sheet. Tenascin and collagen IX were present almost exclusively in MEE cells. Types I, II, and III collagen were completely absent. Addition of TGF or serum universally increased the intensity of staining, most notably that for tenascin and collagen IX in MEE cells. These results indicate that mouse embryonic palatal epithelial sheets can be maintained under defined culture conditions during which they exhibit patterns of differentiation similar to those observed in vivo. TGF, known to localize to the MEE in vivo, can modulate palatal extracellular matrix biosynthesis, particularly by the MEE, suggesting a regulatory role for this factor. The culture system is suitable for further investigating the effects of exogenous factors on mouse embryonic palatal epithelial cell bioactivity and differentiation. 
4296060|Scleroblasts were separated from fragmented tissue of growing tips of Leptogorgia virgulata and cultured using a modification of the technique of Rannou. Replacement of fetal bovine serum with horse serum seemed to increase scleroblast viability. Cell adhesion occurred from 14 to 43 d. Cultured scleroblasts demonstrated cell aggregation, spicule formation, and extrusion of spicules into the external medium. Cells showing spicules in the process of being extruded appeared on the average after 24 d of culture. Variability among cultures was marked with respect to both division and spicule formation. Healthy cultures were maintained for more than 4 mo.
20171429| Mature soybean cotyledons (Maturity group VII) were cultured on modified MS containing 0-2.5 M indole-butyric acid (IBA); 0-10 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 0.7% agar. Embryonic axes of explants were removed prior to culture initiation and cultures were incubated at 24 C with 45-50 E. s.M of mixed irradiance with 16 h photoperiod. Shoot proliferation occurred at 0-2.5 M IBA and 5-10 M BAP, while in the presence of 2.5 M IBA alone, only roots developed. Abnormal shoots were produced with 2.5 M IBA and 5-7.5 M thidiazuron. Adventitious shoot development started 7-14 d after culture initiation in the region where the embryonic axis was previously attached to the cotyledon and shoots were visible within 28 days. The presence of the embryonic axis inhibited shoot morphogenesis. The shoots were rooted on half strength MS inorganic salts plus vitamins, 2% sucrose, 0.5 M NAA acid or 2.5-5 M IBA, or 5-10 M IAA, and 0.7% agar. Rooted plants were acclimatized under a mist in the greenhouse. This simple, rapid, in vitro adventitious shoot development protocol could be adapted for transformation/regeneration studies in soybean. 
4296059| Primary cultures of rat vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells were developed as models to study xenobiotic-induced cytotoxicity. Endothelial and smooth muscle cells were isolated by enzymatic digestion and mechanical dissociation of rat thoracic aortae. Optimal cell growth and minimal fibroblast contamination in cultures of both cell types were obtained in Medium 199 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Cultured cells were characterized by distinctive morphologic features and growth patterns. Intercellular endothelial cell junctions were selectively stained with silver nitrate. Endothelial cells also exhibited a nonthrombogenic surface, as reflected by platelet-binding studies. Confluent cultures of smooth muscle cells, but not endothelial cells, contracted in response to norepinephrine (10 M). Cultures of both cell types were exposed to acrolein (2, 5 or 50 ppm), an environmental pollutant, for 4 and 24 h. Morphologic damage, lactate dehydrogenase release, and cellular thiol content were used as indices of cytotoxicity. Acrolein-induced enzyme leakage and morpholgic alterations were dose- and time-dependent and more pronounced in cultures of smooth muscle cells than in endothelial cells. The total thiol content of endothelial cells exposed to acrolein (50 ppm) for 24 h was not significantly different from that of respective controls. In contrast, the content of treated smooth muscle cells was higher than that of controls. These observations show that primary cultures of vascular cells provide a useful model to evaluate xenobiotic-induced cytotoxicity. The information obtained using a cell culture system may be complemented by the use of other in vivo and in vitro models to determine the mechanisms by which xenobiotics cause vascular cell injury. 
4295757|Endothelial cells from the canine or human thoracic duct were harvested using 0.2% collagenase digestion and grown in Media 199 supplemented with fetal bovine serum. The canine endothelial cells grew to confluence (4.4 to
4296313|In this report we compare attachment, morphology, and growth of retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells isolated by either EDTA or dispase digestion and plated onto either uncoated substrata (plastic or glass) or substrata derivatized by covalent conjugation of proteins of reconstituted basement membrane gel. We show that the derivatized substrata promote better initial attachment and subsequent cell growth than the uncoated substrata. These effects are independent of the method of dissociation of cells from the tissue. Cell morphology, however, is strongly affected by the method used for tissue dispersion. The dispase-dissociated cells are very flat, display a circumferential arrangement of microfilaments and elaborate extensive arrays of vinculin-containing cell-to-cell junctions. In contrast, EDTA-dissociated cells are much less spread, display straight microfilament bundles criss-crossing the cytoplasm and have less extensive cell-to-cell junctions. The protein-derivatized substrata also promote maintenance of differentiated traits, such as pigmentation, by the RPE cells.
4296225|We report the development of culture conditions which routinely support clonal growth of normal human uroepithelial cells (HUC). Secondary cultures seeded at clonal densities and grown under conditions described herein have a colony-forming efficiency (CFE) and colony size that will be useful for in vitro experiments. Primary cultures were dispersed to single cells and seeded in a supplemented Ham's F12 medium containing 1% fetal bovine serum together with 3  10
4295972|Human diploid fibroblasts were cultured on microcarriers made from DEAE-dextran, denatured collagen, DEAE-dextran linked to denatured collagen, and glass. Cells grown on these four substrates were examined for the production of proteolytic enzymes and arachidonic acid metabolites. Culture fluids from cells grown on the DEAE-dextran microcarriers contained the highest amounts of proteolytic enzyme activity. Both plasminogen-independent and plasminogen-dependent fibrinolytic activities were present and the plasminogen-dependent activity seemed to result from the presence of both urokinase and tissue plasminogen activator. Culture fluid from the cells grown on the glass microcarriers contained the least amount of protease activity, and nearly all of the plasminogen-activator activity seemed to be of the urokinase type. Protease activity in the culture fluids of cells grown on the other two substrates were intermediate. With regard to arachidonic acid metabolites, cells grown on the DEAE-dextran microcarriers produced the highest amounts of cyclooxygenase products but very low levels of lipoxygenase metabolites. Cells grown on the other three substrates produced comparable amounts of various cyclooxy genase products (lower than that produced by cells on the DEAE-dextran substrate). Cells grown on the glass microcarriers also produced detectable amounts of two lipoxygenase metabolites-leukotriene B
20171363| Responses of a recently developed rat alveolar macrophage cell (NR8383.1) line were compared to those of freshly derived alveolar macrophages in vitro. Marked inter- and intraspecies heterogeneity in levels of phagocytosis of unopsonized Pseudomonas aeruginosa or zymosan was noted among freshly derived alveolar macrophages from rats, rabbits, and baboons. In contrast, phagocytic responses of alveolar macrophage cell line were predictable and highly reproducible. Similar results were obtained in measuring oxidative burst, as indicated by the production of HO and luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence. Responses were again highly variable in freshly derived alveolar macrophages stimulated with zymosan or phorbol myristic acetate; moreover, freshly derived alveolar macrophages exhibited a wide range of chemiluminescence activity in unstimulated cultures. Results strongly suggest that data derived from the continuous alveolar macrophage culture NR8383.1 can be extrapolated to freshly derived alveolar macrophages of various species, and in many experiments will be useful in avoiding the significant animal-to-animal variance observed among freshly derived cell preparations. 
4296335|The presence of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) in focal nodules of hepatocytes is a commonly used marker for the identification of preneoplastic cell populations. Female Fischer 344 rats were initiated with a single intragastric administration of 200 mg diethylnitrosamine/kg, altered cells were selected after 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene was given in the diet; this was followed by a partial hepatectomy and promotion with dietary sodium phenobarbital for 4 wk. A mixed-cell population of GGT-positive and GGT-negative hepatocytes was obtained after collagenase perfusion and Percoll purification. An enriched population of GGT-positive hepatocytes was obtained by a modified "panning" technique. With quantitative scintillation spectrometry and autoradiography of [
4296243|A technique for the isolation of human intrahepatic bile ductular epithelium, and the establishment of primary cultures using a serum- and growth-factor-supplemented medium combined with a connective tissue substrata is described. Initial cell isolates and monolayer cultures display phenotypic characteristics of biliary epithelial cells (low molecular weight prekeratin positive; albumin, alphafetoprotein, and Factor VIII-related antigen negative). Ultrastructural features of the cultured cells show cell polarization with surface microvilli, numerous interepithelial junctional complexes and cytoplasmic intermediate prekeratin filaments.
4296341|We have developed methods for the culture of human endometrial glandular epithelia in vitro. The culture medium is serum-free and is used in combination with Matrigel, an extracellular matrix material applied as a coating on cell culture plates. Cell growth begins as a monolayer, but the cells subsequently form glandular or organoid structures. The glands are composed of polar columnar cells facing a central lumen, which is enclosed by the apical surfaces of cells displaying numerous microvilli and sealed by tight junction complexes. The ability to study in vitro the complex process of glandular morphogenesis represents an important new tool in cell biology which may be used to investigate growth regulation, hormone production and dependency, and cellular recognition and interactions. Ultimately, these characteristics may be applied to study the alterations of glandular epithelia associated with neoplasia.
4296531|Acinar cells have been difficult to maintain in primary or secondary cultures over extended periods of time. The most successful monolayer culture system reported to date requires basement membrane substrates. We report here a technique for culture of rat parotid acinar cells which does not rely upon basement membrane supports for maintenance and growth. The procedure involves gland excision, treatment to chelate metal ions, enzymatic digestion with collagenases and hyaluronidase, removal of fat and red blood cells by gravimetric separation, and nylon mesh filtration to yield a homogeneous suspension of small aggregates and single cells. The cells were examined for: a) morphology, identity, and growth; b) macromolecular synthesis; and c) secretory output. They were healthy, peroxidase positive, and growing for up to 10 d. Protein synthesis increased from the point of cell layer formation at 3 to 4 d, through 10 d, while DNA synthesis decreased. As in other studies, amylase secretion fell sharply between 2 and 4 d in culture and remained low. Although previous studies indicated that the initial isolation protocol left these acinar cells unable to thrive in monolayer culture except in the presence of basement membrane substrates, the modified technique reported herein allows these cells to attach, spread, and grow on a wide variety of commercially available plasticware. This method lends itself readily to long-term analysis of rat parotid acinar cell metabolism without the complications of dedifferentiation, cell loss through culture manipulation common in suspension cultures, or complex interactions between bioactive supports and cell surfaces.
4295819|A novel incubation unit is described that is highly suitable for thorough studies of oxygen deprivation states. Its application with cultured heart cells is experimentally demonstrated. The release of enzymes, taken as a marker for cell damage, has clearly shown that restriction of the volume of extracellular medium combined with oxygen plus glucose deprivation caused greatest cellular damage. It may be considered as an experimental ischemia-like state. Furthermore, the onset of cellular damage followed a time table very much like that occurring in vivo under similar conditions, more so than any other previously described studies. A time lag between the release of cytoplasmic enzymes and lysosomal enzymes and other observations made in the present study suggests a sequential order of events in which the release of cytoplasmic enzymes occurs at a stage of reversible damage due to oxygen deprivation, whereas the release of lysosomal enzymes may point at irrepairable damage.
4296667|Cultured pig aortic smooth muscle cells maintain a viable, quiescent state in a chemically defined medium that contains 10
4296374|Three new cell lines, designated NIVI-CH-440, NIVI-CH-442, and NIVI-CH-445, derived from the embryonated eggs of the bed-bug Cimex hemipterus (F.) have been established. The cell lines consist of epithelial-like (80%), fibroblastlike (19%), and giant cells (1%). The chromosomes were holokinetic and there was no distinct stemline chromosome number at either early or late passage. The cultures showed two Malate dehydrogenase bands, one dark, the other faint; but no lactate dehydrogenase band. The cultures did not support the multiplication of Japanese encephalitis, Chikungunya, or Dengue-2 viruses, nor did Coxiella burnetii multiply in them.
4295775|Primary avian tendon cells maintain a higher percentage of net collagen synthesis when cultured in low serum concentrations than in high. However, under these conditions the cells grow slowly and can only be subcultured one or two times. We therefore examined various growth factors for their effects on tendon cell multiplication in order to develop a new medium for these cells. Of the growth factors tested, epidermal growth factor, insulin, transferrin, and selenium each stimulated tendon cell division. We also investigated how these factors affected collagen synthesis, and found that they all increased both collagen and noncollagen protein synthesis equally, thus leaving the percentage of protein synthesis devoted to collagen the same. When combined with 0.2% fetal bovine serum in Ham's F12 medium, epidermal growth factor and insulin together stimulated cell multiplication to a level comparable to that of cells grown in Ham's F12 plus 10% serum. Cells could also be successfully subcultured in this medium. Thus, by using selected growth factors we have reduced significantly the serum requirements of cultured tendon cells without affecting population doubling time or subculture capability. This low-serum medium should prove useful for the study of the regulation of collagen biosynthesis.
4296791|During our studies of cytostatic cytokines in the mixed leukocyte culture, we found that horse serum in the medium control contained a tumor cell growth-inhibitory factor. The fraction isolated by molecular sieving and ion exchange chromatography inhibited the growth and DNA synthesis of the primary culture and passaged cell line of the canine transmissible venereal sarcoma, murine T (L5178Y) and B (P3-X63-Ag8.653) lymphoid tumor cells, murine mammary tumor cells (RIII), bovine lymphoid tumor cells (BL3), and the nontransformed cell line of baby hamster kidney cells. Nontransformed cell lines such as African green monkey kidney (Vero) and Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells and normal mammary cells of the dog and goat were inhibited only at high concentrations. The active component is a protein with an R
4296093| Methods have been developed for culturing a dividing population of morphologically differentiated rat parotid, lacrimal, and pancreatic acinar cells in vitro. Isolated acinar cells were plated onto tissue culture dishes coated with a three-dimensional, reconstituted basement membrane gel. After attachment in Ham's nutrient mixture F12, the cells were cultured at 35 C in F12 supplemented with 10% heat inactivated rat serum, epidermal growth factor, dexamethasone, insulin, transferrin, selenium, putrescine, reduced glutathione, ascorbate, penicillin, streptomycin, and the appropriate secretagogue. Under these conditions, the cells attached rapidly and DNA synthesis was initiated within 2 to 3 d. Although the cells flattened on the substratum, they continued to maintain their differentiated morphology. The cells contained secretory granules, and the secretory enzymes peroxidase and amylase could be detected. The use of a reconstituted basement membrane gel proved critical for the attachment and growth of exocrine acinar cells. 
4295760|Long-term cultures of hepatocytes were established from livers of human fetuses obtained by abortion at 18 to 23 wk of gestation. Cells obtained by collagenase dissociation of liver were maintained in defined serum-free medium on a substratum of positively charged plastic. Under these conditions, the cells divide and form a confluent monolayer. After multiple passages over a period of 3 mo., the cells retained an epithelioid morphology and continued to synthesize and secrete albumin.
20171496|We have previously demonstrated that confluent fetal fibroblasts migrate into three-dimensional collagen gels to a significantly greater extent than their normal adult counterparts. Recent studies have revealed that this behavioral difference results from the secretion by fetal fibroblasts of a soluble migration-stimulating factor (MSF) which acts on these cells in an autocrine fashion. Adult fibroblasts do not produce MSF but remain responsive to it. Skin fibroblasts from cancer patients resemble fetal fibroblasts (rather than normal adult cells) with respect to their migratory behavior on collagen gels and continued production of MSF. This communication is concerned with elucidating the biochemical basis of MSF activity. Data are presented indicating that a) hyaluronic acid is required for the elevated migratory activity displayed by confluent fetal and breast cancer patient skin fibroblast; b) adult fibroblasts exhibit a bell-shaped dose-response to MSF, with maximal stimulation of migration observed at a concentration of 10 ng/ml; c) the migratory activity of adult fibroblasts pre-incubated with MSF remains high in the absence of additional factor: and d) MSF affects both the quantity and size class distribution of hyaluronic acid synthesized by adult fibroblasts. We have previously speculated that the persistent fetal-like fibroblasts of breast cancer patients play a direct role in disease pathogenesis by perturbing normal epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. The observations reported here suggest that MSF-induced alterations in hyaluronic acid synthesis may contribute to the molecular basis of such perturbations.
4296471|The contents of nitrogen-containing compounds and the activities of nitrate assimilating enzymes were determined in tobacco callus cultured under shoot-forming and non-shoot-forming conditions. Whole tissue and tissues cut into top and bottom portions were examined. Highes levels of total-N, protein-N, nitrate and ammonium-N, as well as higher activities of nitrate and nitrite reductases were found in shoot-forming whole tissue and in the shoot-forming bottom portion of tobacco callus in comparison to the non-shoot-forming proliferating tissues throughout the culture period. These findings indicate that enhanced nitrogen assimilation occurs during de novo shoot organogenesis.
20171512| Cultured type II pneumocyte responses to in vitro normoxia (95% air:5% CO) or hyperoxia (95% O:5% CO) were quantified. Normoxic culture (0 to 96 h) of rabbit type II cells resulted in enhanced cell-monolayer protein and DNA content. During this same time, cellular activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GSH Px) decreased. Compared to cultures maintained in normoxia, hyperoxic exposure of cultures resulted in decreased cell-associated protein and DNA content. Exposure to hyperoxia also resulted in cytotoxicity as demonstrated by elevated cellular release of DNA, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and preincorporated 8-[C]adenine. Cellular catalase and GSH Px activities in hyperoxic cells decreased similarly to normoxic controls. In contrast, cellular SOD activity in hyperoxic cells decreased less than in normoxic cultures. Cellular SOD activity in hyperoxic cultures, when normalized for cellular protein, but not DNA, was greater than normoxic values after 24 to 96 h of exposure. Unlike the decrease in cellular antioxidant enzymes during normoxic and hyperoxic culture, cellular LDH activity increased during both these exposures. Cellular LDH activity in 24 to 96 h hyperoxia-exposed cells increased to a lesser extent than normoxic controls. The extent of depression in LDH activity was dependent on whether the activity was normalized for cellular protein or DNA. Type II pneumocytes, which normally undergo hyperplasia and hypertrophy during hyperoxia in vivo, exhibited oxygen sensitivity in vitro. Exposure of type II cells to hyperoxia in vitro resulted in alterations in cellular SOD and LDH activities, but recognition of such changes were dependent on whether enzymatic activities were normalized for cellular DNA or protein. 
20171404| Thrombin-stimulated human platelets adhere to and injure cultured human endothelial cells. We hypothesize that generation of active oxygen species by the stimulated platelets are involved in the injury. To confirm this, catalase [final concentration (8.25 g/ml)], superoxide dismutase (SOD) (10 g/ml), of D-mannitol (9 mg/ml) were added to the cell culture medium before the experiments. Platelet suspension (200.000/l) and thrombin (4 U/ml) were added and the culture dishes shaken for 15 min at room temperature. In separate experiments the endothelial cells were pretreated with acetylsalicylic acid (0.05, 0.1, or 0.5 mM) to test whether the arachidonic acid metabolism of the endothelial cells is involved in the injury process. In preliminary experiments we were able to confirm that platelets, when stimulated by thrombin, produce chemiluminescence which was suppressed by mannitol but not by catalase or SOD. The degree of injury to cultured endotheial cells by thrombin-stimulated platelets, as measured by release of Cr from prelabeled endothelial cells, was reduced significantly with the presence of mannitol, but only moderately when catalase or SOD had been added. Morphometric quantification based on scanning electron micrographs of the endothelial cells after exposure to thrombin-stimulated platelets in the presence of catalase or mannitol showed a reduced number of injured cells. Pretreatment of the endothelial cells with acetylsalicylic acid did not cause any significant change in the degree of endothelial cell injury as measured by the Cr release. It is concluded that active oxygen species, in particular hydroxyl radicals, may be generated during thrombin stimulation of platelets and cause injury to the endothelial cells. 
4296534| A population of freshly isolated adult rat cardiac myocytes is spatially oriented using a computerized mechanical cell stimulator device for tissue cultured cells. A continuous unidirectional stretch of the substratum at 60 to 400 m/min for 120 to 30 min, respectively, during the cell attachment period in serum-free medium induces a significant three-fold increase in the number of rod-shaped myocytes oriented parallel to the direction of movement. The myocytes orient less well with unidirectional substratum stretching after their adhesion to the substratum. In contrast, adult myocytes plated onto a substratum undergoing continuous 10% stretch-relaxation cycling show no significant change in myocyte orientation or cytoskeletal organization. Orientation of rod-shaped myocytes is dependent on several factors other than the type of mechanical activity. These include: a) the speed of substratum movement; b) the final stretch amplitude; and c) the timing between initiation of substratum stretching and adhesion of myocytes to the substratum. Oriented adult rod shaped myocytes representing 65 to 70% of the total myocyte population in this model system can now be submitted to different patterns of repetitive mechanical stimulation for the study of stretch-induced alterations in cell growth and gene expression. 
4296054|A difference was observed in the effect of difluoromethlyornithine (DFMO), a specific inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, on human and murine granulocyte-macrophage precursor cell (CFU-C) proliferation in vitro, in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS) and horse serum (HS). A dose of DFMO which almost totally abolished CFU-C colonies in cultures containing FBS had no effect or very little effect on CFU-C in cultures supplemented with HS. This effect could be reversed by aminoguanidine reacting with diamine oxidase (DAO), which is present in FBS but not in HS. The importance of DAO in the assessment of polyamine effects is also suggested by decreased colony formation in cultures containing HS and DFMO only after the addition of this enzyme. Additionally, Mo T cell line cultures containing DFMO demonstrated a substantially lower intracellular concentration of putrescine in the presence of FBS rather than HS.
4295841|A method for measuring respiratory activity in anchorage-dependent cultured cells has been developed. This method is based on a technique that permits the perfusion of standard plastic culture dishes with attached cells. Basal respiratory activities were studied in two continuous cell lines of neural origin, neuroblastoma C1300 clone
4295725|We have previously reported the transformation by Rous sarcoma virus of a cloned epithelial cell line (BRL) established from Buffalo rat liver by H. Coon. The nontransformed (BRL) and transformed (RSV-BRL) cells grew at comparable rates in culture, whereas only the transformed cells were tumorigenic in vivo. We report here on the existence in rat and mouse sera of a growth inhibitor for the nontransformed BRL cells. The transformed BRL cells (RSV-BRL) were insensitive to this inhibitor. The inhibitory activity was not prominent in sera from other species of animals tested except for rabbit; this serum inhibited the growth of RSV-BRL cells more strongly than that of BRL cells. The growth inhibitor was partially purified from rat serum. It is a protein free of lipid and has a molecular weight of about 220 000. The inhibitor could be separated into three components of pI 4.6, 5.2 (major) and 5.6 by isoelectric electrophoresis.
20171362| We isolated osteoblastic cells derived from human periosteum and established them in culture. Their growth depended on the presence of ascorbic acid, and the doubling time was 40 to 60 h. The requirement for ascorbic acid was used to high production of collagen. These cells produced mainly type I collagen and only small amounts of type III collagen determined by reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The total collagen yield was about 10 mg from 2  10 cells. The cells could be continuously cultured in -minimum essential medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum for 18 to 40 population doubling levels, depending on the age of the donated periosteum. These cells have the ability to calcify when incubated with 2 mM -glycerophosphate-Na. Calcification as viewed by the naked eye appeared from Day 15 after treatment. Treatment with the active formed vitamin D, 1, 25 dihydroxyvitamin D enhanced calcification significantly and stimulated osteocalcin production. By electron microscopy, cells with many projections on their surfaces showed well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum and actinlike fibers, and large numbers of lysosomes, mitochondria, and secretion granules. Many matrix vesicles, in which minerals were initially localized, and well-banded collagen fibrils were seen in the intercellular spaces. These observations demonstrate typical osteoblastic morphology. The above results indicate that cultured cells from human periostem are osteoblastic cells that have the capacity to differentiate into osteocytes and to deposit calcified minerals in response to 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D. 
4296242| Studies on the regulation of differentiation in airway epithelial cells have been hampered by the lack of cell culture systems that differentiate in vitro. One such system that does exhibit differentiation is hamster tracheal epithelial cells (HTE). A major problem with this system, however, is that at the time cells differentiate, they lyze the collagen gel upon which they grow, resulting in termination of the culture. Here we report that by growing the HTE cells at 32 instead of 37 C we can totally prevent lysis of the collagen gel. Cells grown at this lower temperature maintain their differentiated phenotype as evidenced by abundant mucus granules and the secretion of authentic mucus glycoproteins into the culture media. We have also developed a method for subculturing the primary cells which allows growth and differentiation in secondary culture. The HTE cells were capable of being passaged at least three times and did not become transformed as judged by their inability to grow in soft agar and to produce tumors in syngeneic animals. This improved HTE cell culture system will allow detailed studies on the mechanisms which regulate growth, differentiation, and mucus secretion in surface airway epithelial cells. 
4296063|Stationary culture of plant cell suspensions has been achieved. Slurries, produced when small amounts of agar (0.1-0.4%) were added to culture media, were used to suspend plant cells. Growth proceeded more slowly than in standard shake culture, but cells remained viable for months of culture. This method of growing plant cells in stationary culture should be useful for general applications including long-term cell culture, shipment of cultures, and physiological, molecular biological, and pathological studies.
20171491| Terminally differentiating mouse muscle cells were used to examine the relationship between myogenic withdrawal from the cell cycle and the levels of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) mRNA and DHFR activity. Differentiation was induced by removal of fibroblast growth factor activity from the medium. DHFR mRNA was measured by a RNase protection assay. DHFR activity was measured by a spectrophotometric assay and by a [H]methotrexate binding assay. Proliferative myoblasts contained four DHFR mRNA molecules and 1.8  10 DHFR enzyme molecules. By 12.5 h after induction, when [H]thymidine labeling indices showed all cells had withdrawn from the cell cycle, DHFR mRNA levels had declined to 0.7 copies per cell. In contrast, myogenic withdrawal did not result in reduced DHFR activity. Qualitatively similar results, i.e. down-regulation of mRNA and constitutive expression of activity, were observed in a methotrexate-selected muscle cell line with &gt; 50-fold amplification of the DHFR gene. Enzyme synthesis rate and stability measurements indicated that persistence of DHFR activity in postreplicative cells was due to a long enzyme lifetime rather than to continued synthesis from residual normal DHFR mRNA or an alternative mRNA species not detected by the RNase protection assay. Unlike DHFR, thymidine kinase (TK) activity disappeared rapidly as muscle cells differentiated. Both DHFR mRNA and TK mRNA are expressed in a replication-dependent manner; however, the enzymes encoded by these messages are subject to different fates in postreplicative cells. 
4296196|Normal colonic epithelial cell cultures of mammalian origin are required to facilitate the study of both normal cellular functions as well as pathogenesis of certain (human) colonic diseases. To date, little information is available regarding the growth requirements of colonic epithelial cells in culture of either animal or human origin. Such data would enable the development of a long-term culture system for these cells. In this study, we present methodology that results in the establishment of homogeneous cultures of adult rabbit colonic epithelia reproducibly, quickly, and in quantity. The epithelial nature of the cultures is unambiguously established by intermediate filament typing using antikeratin antibodies. Such cultures can now be used for a variety of functional studies as well as to investigate the growth requirements of colonic epithelia in culture.
4296768|The in-vitro effects of hydroxyurea 5-FU and 5-FUdR have been extensively studied in experimental systems employing cell-line techniques. In this study we investigated the effects of these drugs on the levels of incorporation of labeled nucleosides into DNA in explants of intact rat colonic mucosa maintained in organ culture. The effects of the nucleoside transport inhibitors nitrobenzylthioinosine (NBMPR) and dipyridamole-which are modulators of antimetabolite cytotoxicity -on the incorporation of tritiated thymidine
20171379| The growth of GHC, GH, GH, and GHC rat pituitary tumor cell lines was studied in a serum-free medium (designated TRM-1) formulated with 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of Ham's F12 nutrient mixture and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (F12-DME) containing 15 mM 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), 50 g/ml gentamicin supplemented with 10 g/ml bovine insulin, 10 g/ml human transferrin (Tf), 10 ng/ml selenous acid, 10 nM 3,5,3- triiodothyronine (T) 50 M ethanolamine (Etn), and 500 g/ml bovine serum albumin. Of the lines evaluated, only the GH failed to grow in TRM-1. Passage of the GHC and GH lines from serum-containing medium into TRM-1 caused an initial selection resulting in cells that grew progressively at higher rates and finally were maintained indefinitely in TRM-1. These populations showed a requirement for supraphysiologic concentrations of T (1.0 to 10 nM). After adaptation of the GHC line in TRM-1 for 20 generations, removal of components gave a less complex mixture containing 15 mM HEPES, 50 g/ml gentamicin, 10 g/ml Tf, 10 nM T, and 50 M Etn (designated TRM-2) that supported serial passage of the cells. Under these conditions, thyroid hormone dependence was lost progressively. When T was removed from TRM-2 adapted cells, a third population was selected that no longer required thyroid hormones and was only slightly stimulated by T. These studies demonstrated that the combination of serum-containing and serum-free conditions can be used to select pituitary cell populations that a) required both serum-factor(s) adn T for optimum growth, b) required supraphysiologic concentrations of T without serum proteins other than Tf and albumin, and c) were completely autonomous in that they proliferated in medium supplemented only with Tf and nutrients without necessity of other serum factor(s) or T. 
4296910|We have investigated the molecular phenotypic differences between Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) cells cultured at pH 6.7 or 7.3. Multiple pH-sensitive phenotypic differences were noted including changes in cellular morphology, a unique charge differential in a major cellular protein, nine uniquely expressed proteins, two unique phosphoserine/threonine phosphoproteins, one unique phosphotyrosine phosphoprotein, and the pH dependent mRNA level of a gap junctional gene (connexin 43). These differences, combined with previously described pH-specific differences (differential transformation rates and gap junctional communication), illustrate that culturing SHE cells in media that differ by 0.6 pH units (0.3 units on either side of pH 7.0) can have a profound influence on the cellular phenotype.
4296299|The developing avian limb bud is a classic example of an epithelial-mesenchymal interaction. Numerous attempts at maintenance of the epithelia in culture have been predominantly unsuccessful. The fate of the isolated epithelial sheet of the limb bud [including the apical ectodermal ridge (AER)] in culture may depend at least in part on the integrity of its basal lamina following isolation. In this study the distal epithelium of the stage 23 limb bud was isolated utilizing trypsin and Dispase II in a variety of procedures. The integrity of the basal lamina of limb epithelium immediately upon isolation and after 2 h in culture was determined by immunofluprescent staining for laminin, and electron microscopy. In epithelial sheets isolated with Dispase II a direct relationsip was observed between maintenance of the extracellular matrix at isolation and the preservation of the tissue structure and cytoarchitecture following 2 h in culture. In contrast, there was an accelerated deterioration during incubation of the tissue isolated with trypsin, independent of isolation conditions and integrity of basal lamina after isolation. Short-term maintenance of limb bud epithelial structure and cytoarchitecture after enzymatic isolation seems correlative to the maintenance of extracellular matrix at the epithelial basal surface.
20171474|A new computerized mechanical cell stimulator device for tissue cultured cells is described which maintains the cells in a horizontal position during mechanical stretching of up to 400% in substratum length. Mechanical stimulation of myogenic cells in this device initiates several aspects of in vivo skeletal muscle organogenesis not seen in normal static tissue culture environments. Embryonic skeletal muscle cells from avian m. pectoralis are grown in the device attached to the collagen-coated elastic substratum. Dynamic stretching of the substratum in one direction for 3 d at a rate (0.35 mm/h) that simulates in vivo bone elongation during development causes the myoblasts to fuse into parallel arrays of myotubes which are 2 to 4 times longer than myotubes grown under static culture conditions. This longitudinal myotube growth is accompanied by increased rates of cell proliferation and myoblast fusion. Prestretching the collagen-coated substratum before cell plating also results in increased cell proliferation, myotube orientation, and longitudinal myotube growth. The effects of substratum stretching on myogenesis in this model system thus occur by alterations in the cell's extracellular matrix and not by acting directly on the cells.
4296828| Rat embryos were explanted on Days 9.5 or 10 of gestation and cultured for 48 to 30h, respectively, in rat serum containing 0, 3, 6, 9 mg/ml of Ethanol (Eth); 0, 10, 20 g/ml of Acetaldehyde (Ach); 3 mg/ml Eth + 10 g/ml Ach. At the end of the culture period the embryos were evaluated for vitality, and scored. Some of them were also examined histologically. Embryos exposed to Eth from Day 9.5 showed a dose-related growth retardation associated with a high frequency of malformations (open neural tube, heart defects, branchial arch hypoplasia). The exposure of 9.5-day embryos to 20 g/ml Ach resulted in 100% embryolethality, whereas 10 g/ml induced growth retardation and teratogenic effects. When 10-day embryos were exposed to 3 mg/ml Eth or 10 l/ml Ach no effects were observed, but the highest levels of Eth produced a moderate growth retardation and morphologic defects. Exposure to 20 g/ml Ach induced hypoplasia of the first arch, but did not alter the score value. The histologic examination of these embryos revealed severe lesions at the level of the neuroepithelium and of the branchial mesenchyma. Similar effects were observed in embryos exposed simultaneously to 3 mg/ml Eth and 10 g/ml Ach. These results should make us reevaluate the role of Ach in the Eth-induced embryopathies. 
4295960|We studied the variation in the mitogenicity of the sera derived from any particular subject at different time points. Two sets of sera were taken at an interval of 3 wk from 12 healthy male conscripts, and the samples were tested with regard to their ability to support proliferation of cultured human aortic smooth muscle cells (HSMC). Sera from 12 individuals showed markedly different growth-stimulating effects. On the other hand, sera from any particular individual taken at different time points gave constantly the same result. This was evident when the sera from the two time points were tested fresh in separate experiments and when they were tested together in one experiment after storage of 4 to 5 mo. The growth-promoting effects of the sera did not correlate significantly with the concentration of certain measurable serum factors which are known to be mitogenic for arterial smooth muscle cells (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, growth hormone, insulin, or insulinlike growth factor-I). Our results indicate that the growth-promoting effect of human serum on cultured HSMC is a constant serum donor-dependent property. This implies that it is possible to make reliable comparisons between the growth-promoting effects of the sera derived from different subjects, and to measure the effects of treatments, e.g. medical or dietary, on the mitogenicity of the sera from any given individual.
4296324|We have transformed petunia by Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing genes for kanamycin resistance and beta-glucuronidase using isolated shoot apices from seedling tissue. Regeneration of transformed plants in this model system was rapid. The technique of shoot apex transformation is an alternative for use in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of dicotyledonous crop species for which a method of regeneration via protoplasts, leaf disks, or epidermal strips does not exist. This approach offers direct and rapid regeneration of plants and low risk of tissue-culture-induced genetic variation.
20171403| The hepatoblastoma cell line HepG2 has been a matter of many investigations; most of them include biochemical studies of lipoprotein and other hepatic protein metabolism. However, the accurate cellular features of these cells have not been emphasized. We studied the cellular histologic, histochemical, and ultrastructural characteristics of this cell line. In addition, we investigated by immunoenzymatic methods the cellular biosynthesis of several proteins: apolipoproteins-AI, -B, -D, and -E, albumin, alpha-fetoprotein, transferrin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, C-reactive protein, fibronectin, and collagens I, III and IV. The rates of accumulation, in the medium of HepG2 cells, of albumin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, transferrin, and alpha-fetoprotein were 13.2  1.9; 4.9  1.5; 3.2  0.4; and 10.7  1.7 g/10 cells/24 h, respectively. Our results show that HepG2 cells exhibited most cellular features of normal human hepatocytes. Bile canaliculi as well as Golgi apparatus complexes were particularly developed. Except for the C-reactive protein, HepG2 cells have all retained the ability to synthesize hepatic proteins but with some variable intensity from cell to cell. This hepatoblastoma cell line seems to represent a useful tool in the understanding of hepatic protein biosynthesis, particularly for the investigation on the secretory pathway of plasma proteins. 
4296794|Mesenchymal cell lines derived from fetal rat urogenital sinus organ cultures have been characterized to establish an in vitro system for addressing growth and differentiation regulatory factors involved in mesenchymal-epithelial interactions during prostate morphogenesis. A continuous cell line was developed and designated U4F. Immunocytochemical analysis showed vimentin intermediate filament content confirming a mesenchymal origin. Previous studies with urogenital sinus organ cultures have reported the expression of a negative growth activity, which is stimulatory to protein synthesis and secretion and alters phenotypic morphology of NBT-II bladder epithelial cells. Subconfluent and confluent U4F monolayers did not produce this growth inhibitory activity. Foci of stacked cells were observed 3 wk postconfluency, which evolved into multicellular spheroids. The negative growth activity was expressed in the conditioned medium coordinate with spheroid formation. Transplanted spheroids continued to express the growth inhibitory activity. Morphologic analysis of spheroids showed a cellular capsule and a core of extracellular matrix. A continuous cell strain (U4F1) with altered phenotypic properties, arose spontaneously from long-term U4F cultures. The U4F1 cell strain did not form spheroids, yet expressed the negative growth activity constitutively in monolayer culture. Analyses of physicochemical, immunological, and biological properties showed the activity is identical in conditioned media from urogenital sinus organ cultures, U4F spheroids, and U4F1 monolayers. Based on the combined properties, this activity cannot be ascribed to previously characterized negative growth factors. The establishment of this mesenchymal cell culture system will aid in the further identification of paracrine-acting growth and differentiation regulatory factors secreted by fetal mesenchyme.
4296846| The pathogenesis of retrovirus-induced erythroid aplasia in cats is unknown. In studies to define mechanisms of cytotoxicity associated with retroviral infections, bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMC) from healthy specific pathogen-free cats were co-cultured with uninfected feline embryonic fibroblasts (FEA cells) and FEA cells infected with feline leukemia virus (FeLV) of subgroup A (FEA-A) or subgroup C (FEA-C). Moderate to marked cytotoxicity (CPE) developed in co-cultures of BMMC and FEA-C cells on Days 5 to 7 of incubation but not in co-cultures of BMMC and FEA-A or BMMC and uninfected cells (FEA-CT). Cytotoxicity was associated with adherent cells of light density (1.056) from bone marrow and peripheral blood, which were positive for alpha naphthyl butyrate esterase activity. Stimulation of adherent cells with phorbol ester or addition of recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha (rhTNF-) caused similar CPE in FEA-CT cells. The TNF- concentrations in the culture supernatants of BMMC+FEA-C were higher than those of BMMC+FEA-A or BMMC+FEA-CT, and addition of anti-TNF antibodies to the cultures blocked the CPE. These data support the hypothesis that macrophages exposed to FeLV-C cause CPE in co-cultures of BMMC and FEA cells by a mechanism involving TNF-. It is suggested that TNF- may be involved in the suppression of hematopoiesis in cats which develop FeLV-C induced erythroid aplasia. 
4295988|A hybrid cell line (E-2) that secretes the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) has been prepared. The E-2 cell was the product of a fusion between primary mouse hepatocytes and a chemically transformed rat liver cell line (FRL), neither of which expresses AChE activity. The enzyme was determined to be AChE on the basis of its susceptibility to inhibition by BW284c51 but not by iso-OMPA, as well as its substrate specificity. Although the secreted enzyme was salt soluble and its activity not modified by the addition of the nonionic detergent, Triton X-100, the activity of the cellular enzyme (derived from homogenates of E-2 cells) was greatly enhanced in the presence of the detergent.
4295796| Invasion of chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) organ cultures by rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the highly oncogenic human adenovirus type 12 (3Y1/12-10 cells) was inhibited by several retinoids tested. The anti-invasive activity of the retinoids was dependent on retinoid concentration and continuous (4 d) exposure of the CAM. The 50% retinoid dose (dose effective in achieving a response in half of the organ cultures) that inhibited invasion was 0.85 g/ml of retinol pa Imita te, 0.39 g/ml of retinoic acid, or 0.16 g/ml of retinol acetate. This dose was of the same order of magnitude as that which induced CAM differentiation, and was three- to fourfold less than the dose that caused cytotoxic damage of CAM. In addition, the retinoids inhibited 3Y1/12-10 cell growth by approximately 40% at levels over 10-fold higher than those needed for anti-invasion activity. The findings suggest that the anti-invasive activity of retinoids was at least partly due to direct induction of cell differentiation of the CAM host tissue. 
20171489| Interlobular duct fragments from the pancreas of the rat were isolated by collagenase digestion and filtration, embedded in a matrix of rat-tail collagen, and cultured in a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's minimal essential and Ham's F12 media supplemented with cholera toxin (CT, 100 ng/ml) and epidermal growth factor (EGF, 10 ng/ml) in addition to supplements used previously, thereby improving the yield of ducts by a factor of two compared with previous resuts. The ducts were harvested by digestion of the collagen matrix with collagenase and were then dissociated by treatment with EDTA in divalent cation-free salt solution, followed by digestion with collagenase and hyaluronidase. The resulting tissue fragments were suspended in collagen and cultured as were the ducts. Numerous cysts appeared as a function of time and some of these enlarged dramatically. Some of the larger cysts exhibited secondary tubular processes extending into the surrounding collagen. The addition of bovine pituitary extract (BPE, 50 g/ml) doubled the number of cysts, whereas omission of serum or CT+EGF reduced the number. BPE or forskolin could substitute effectively for CT. Agents that stimulate (secretin) or inhibit (e.g., ouabain or acetazolamide) fluid-electrolyte secretion in vivo had no effect on the number or average diameter of the cysts. The cysts were 83 to 88% epithelial with the balance of the cells being fibroblastic in appearance. Some cysts consisted only of epithelium. The proliferative capacity of the cystic epithelium was shown by the presence of mitotic figures and by an autoradiographic labeling index of 22 to 30% after a 24-h exposure to [H]thymidine. The labeling index was reduced by the omission of CT+EGF. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the cysts exhibited morphologic features of duct epithelium in vivo, including apical microvilli, lateral interdigitations of the plasma membrane, and typical cytoplasmic organelles. 
20171572|Producing synthetic seed of carrot consists of coating in-vitro grown embryos with a synthetic seed coat such as Polyox WSR-N 750, drying under controlled conditions, and hardening to prevent precocious germination. Survival of such embryos declines over time. Similar procedures have also been used with celery. Somatic embryos have several advantages compared to conventional tissue culture which include proliferacy, singulation, and the development of bipolar structures. The factors which most limit the use of synthetic seeds are the inability to use such procedures with economically important genotypes, lack of understanding of the maturation of somatic embryos and poor conversion rates to greenhouse and/or field.
4296130|This report describes the development of a culture system for long-term growth and cloning of human fetal adrenocortical cells. Optimal conditions for stimulating clonal growth were determined by testing the efficacy of horse serum (HS), fetal bovine serum (FBS), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), fibronectin, and a combination of growth factors, UltroSer G, in stimulating growth from low density. Optimal conditons for clonal growth were achieved using fibronectin-coated dishes and DME/F12 medium with 10% FBS, 10% HS, 2% UltroSer G, and 100 ng/ml FGF or 100 pM EGF. Conditions for growth at clonal density were found to be optimal for growth of early passage, nonclonal cultures at higher densities. The improved growth conditions used for cloning were shown to allow continued long-term growth of nonclonal human adrenocortical cells without fibroblast overgrowth. All cells in cultures grown in HS, FBS, and UltroSer G had morphologic characteristics of adrenocortical cells, whereas cells grown in FBS only rapidly became overgrown with fibroblasts. Clonal and nonclonal early passage human adrenocortical cells had similar mitogenic responses to FGF and EGF. Whereas FGF, EGF, and UltroSer G showed similar stimulation of DNA synthesis and clonal growth in human adrenocortical cells and human adrenal gland fibroblasts, the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate stimulated growth only in adrenocortical cells and was strongly inhibitory to growth in fibroblasts. In both cell types, forskolin inhibited DNA synthesis. Human adrenocortical cell cultures were functional and synthesized cortisol, dehydroepiandrosterone, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. The improved growth conditions for clonal growth of human adrenocortical cells also provided optimal conditions for long-term growth of cultured rat adrenocortical cells and increased the cloning efficiency of cultured bovine adrenocortical cells.
4296161|Transferrin was identified as a major tissue-derived growth factor for MTW9/PL2 rat mammary tumor cells. Mitogenic activity was assayed by the ability to stimulate the increase in number of MTW9/PL2 cells over 4 d in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing only 15 mM HEPES, 2 mM glutamine, and
20171593| Using liposomes as the mediator of DNA transfer, we were successful in the transfection of human hepatocytes isolated from surgical samples with an E. coli -galactosidase gene (-gal). A comparison of transfection efficiency showed that of the four promoters used, cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter yielded higher transfection efficiencies than Rous sarcoma virus (RSV), Simian virus-40 (SV-40) and human alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) promoters. These studies represent the first report on the successful transfection of primary cultures of human hepatocytes. 
4296071|The comparative metabolic effects of fructose and glucose were determined in human fibroblast cultures. Cells were grown in four different media containing 5.5 and 27.5 mM of glucose and fructose, respectively. For these two hexoses, we compared their uptake, consumption, and conversion into
4296058|Epithelial cell cultures were prepared from normal human fetal kidney and established in long-term culture. The growth characteristics and production of keratin, and alkaline phosphatase (AP) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) activities were compared in a modified minimal essential medium (mMEM), D-valine-containing modified alpha-MEM (mALPHA) and L-valine mALPHA. The mean number of cumulative population doublings (CPDL) was significantly (P <0.001) enhanced with the L-valine mALPHA (40.8 CPDL) over that achievable in mMEM (14.2 CPDL) or D-valine mALPHA (18.3 CPDL) media. In all three media, greater than 95% of the cells in culture produced keratin throughout the life span of these cultures. Surface-associated fibronectin was absent in these cell cultures. AP and GGT activities increased as a function of subpassage and time in culture, with the greatest activity in the L-valine mALPHA. The expression of these renal cell-associated functions suggests that these cells in culture are proximal tubule epithelial cells. The conditions and procedures described in this paper can provide a human kidney epithelial cell culture system for studying human renal function, metabolism, cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, and transformation.
4295826|The survival of adult rat hepatocytes in monolayer culture was studied in the presence of different hormones (neurotensin, oxytocin, thyrotropin releasing hormone, luteinizing hormone releasing hormone, cholecalciferol, bradykinin, substance P, aldosterone, melanocyte stimulating hormone, 3,3',5-triiodo-1-thyronine, corticosterone, human growth hormone, glucagon, insulin, progesterone, testosterone, estradiol, and dexamethasone phosphate) or growth factors (fetal bovine serum). For this purpose trypan blue exclusion, lactate dehydrogenase, and DNA and protein content were measured at 24 and 72 h of culture. 10
4296641|A mammalian embryonic cell surface glycoprotein (ESGp), whose expression and biochemical structure seem to be developmentally regulated, has been isolated and characterized. The molecule expressed in two cell through morula stage mouse embryos has a molecular weight, by electrophoretic analyses, of 90 kDa. At the blastocyst stage, however, the molecule migrates as a broad, heterogeneous band ranging from 90 to 110 kDa. Evidence obtained from studies of embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells indicates that this band is actually a composite of three distinct molecules (molecular weight 90, 95, and 105 to 110 kDa), each of which is synthesized uniquely by one of the different cell types of the blastocyst: the embryonic ectoderm and visceral and parietal endoderms, respectively. A survey of various mouse tissues and cell lines has revealed that undifferentiated cells express the low molecular weight form (90 kDa) characteristic of embryonic ectoderm, whereas differentiated cells and adult tissues express the high molecular weight form (110 kDa) characteristic of parietal endoderm. Only the EC visceral endoderm cell analogues have been shown to express the intermediate molecule (95 kDa). In embryos, the antigen is uniformly distributed over the cell surface during early cleavage stages (two to eight cell); just before compaction, however, it seems to redistribute and becomes polarized at the outside exposed edges of blastomeres. In cultured EC cells, ESGp is found only in areas of cell-to-cell contact; free-standing surfaces of cells are negative for expression. It is possible, therefore, that ESGp may be involved in the intercellular adhesion of both EC cells and compacting embryos.
4296882|Heparin-binding fibroblast growth factors (HBGF) have been implicated in the regeneration of both parenchymal and nonparenchymal cells of the liver. The response to and phenotype of hepatocyte receptors for HBGF-1 (acidic fibroblast growth factor) and HBGF-2 (basic fibroblast growth factor) were compared to keratinocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells. HBGF-1 stimulated DNA synthesis in hepatocytes, keratinocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells whereas activity of HBGF-2 was limited to fibroblasts and endothelial cells. HBGF-2 antagonized the mitogenic activity of HBGF-1 for hepatocytes and keratinocytes. Hepatocytes and keratinocytes exhibited both high- and low-affinity, nonmatrix receptor sites for HBGF-1, but only low-affinity sites for HBGF-2. The mesenchymal cells displayed only high-affinity sites for both HBGF-1 and HBGF-2. Northern blot and immunochemical analysis revealed that the expression of HBGF receptor genes bek and flg are partitioned between normal hepatocytes and nonparenchymal cells, respectively. Expression of epithelial cell-specific, mesenchymal cell-derived HBGF-7 (keratinocyte growth factor) mRNA in regenerating liver tissue was undetectable relative to HBGF-1. The results support a multifunctional role of HBGF-1 acting through different receptor phenotypes in hepatocyte and nonparenchymal cells during liver regeneration.
4296513|Cells grown in vitro generally have a requirement for an exogenous source of lipid. This requirement is often met by the addition of serum, lipoproteins, or lipids complexed to albumin. To overcome the disadvantages of using lipoproteins or albumin for culturing cells in serum-free media, a method has been devised to provide necessary lipids. This report describes the preparation and use of protein-free lipid microemulsions suitable for use in tissue culture. The microemulsions are prepared from purified, synthetic lipids to produce a homogeneous, water-soluble, stable suspension that can be sterile-filtered. The best results were obtained using a sonicate of cholesterol oleate, dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine, dilinoleoyl phosphatidylcholine, dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol, cholesterol, sphingomyelin, alpha-tocopherol, alpha-tocopherol acetate, and Tween 80. Using Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells in a protein-free medium, cell growth was 222% vs. control (no microemulsion) in a 5-d assay. Inclusion of the microemulsion to protein-free media also increased the growth rate of murine hybridomas, H9 transformed T lymphoblasts, and human skin keratinocytes.
4295790|A method for in vitro cultivation of teratocytes from the egg parasitoid Telenomus heliothidis (Hymenoptera: Scelionidae) is described. Parasitoid eggs, from which teratocytes were derived, were collected from 24-h-old Heliothis virescens (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) eggs previously parasitized by T. heliothidis females. Optimal culture conditions, including species and concentration of serum, were determined experimentally. Thirty percent Manduca sexta hemolymph or 10% chicken serum in Hink's TNH-FH medium were found to generate the most satisfactory number of teratocytes per parasitoid larva. Teratocytes cultivated in vitro showed similar development and morphology to those produced in vivo. However, cultured teratocytes lived approximately 10 times longer than teratocytes in natural hosts and were not dependent upon the presence of the parasitoid larva for normal development.
4295722|Data of the intracellular electrolyte concentration of potassium and chloride in cultured muscle cells measured by x-ray analysis were compared by using the different activity coefficients with intracellular potassium and chloride activities measured with double-barrelled microelectrodes. By using an activity coefficient of 0.6, 95% of the potassium microelectrode measurements are in accordance with the x-ray analysis values, in spite of a scattering of the values. Membrane potential and intracellular potassium values are linearly related. x-ray analysis and ion-sensitive microelectrodes measured the cytoplasmic chloride in the same range. Taking into account known activity coefficients, an error of 25% must be assumed with the intracellular chloride measurements. However, x-ray analysis and ion-sensitive microelectrode investigations are reliable tools to study intracellular potassium and chloride changes, which play an important role in membrane characteristics.
4296797|We have previously shown that differentiation of embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells leads to both increased binding of FGF (fibroblast growth factor) and suppression of k-FGF expression. In the current study, we examined the expression of FGF receptors by EC cells, EC-derived differentiated cells and early mammalian embryos using the technique of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We determined that both mouse, F9, and human, NT2/D1, EC cells as well as their differentiated counterparts express transcripts for two forms of FGF receptors, bek (bacterially expressed kinase) and flg (fms-like gene). In addition, we determined that mouse blastocysts express flg transcripts. The presence of FGF receptor transcripts in early embryos and the previous finding of FGF-related activity in medium conditioned by mouse blastocysts argue that the FGF family plays important roles during early mammalian development.
4296410|The growth and differentiation of an established renal epithelial cell line,
20171472|Many of the morphologic and biochemical changes that occur during human fetal skin development have been described, yet there has been little experimental analysis of the processes that regulate the development of human fetal skin. This is due in part to difficulties in culturing human fetal epidermal keratinocytes. We have successfully cultured fetal keratinocytes in two different in vitro systems; in a serum-free keratinocyte growth medium (KGM) on tissue culture plastic and cocultured with dermal fibroblasts as spheroidal aggregates. To characterize these fetal keratinocytes in vitro we have assessed their ability to express several markers of epidermal differentiation. Human fetal keratinocytes grown on plastic in KGM stratify and express some of the components of the differentiated epidermis, such as involucrin and the high molecular weight keratins. However, these keratinocytes co-express keratins and vimentin and do not form a structured basement membrane. More characteristics of fetal skin are preserved in mixed aggregates of epidermal keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts, including epidermal stratification, synthesis of basement membrane components, tissue-specific expression of intermediate filaments, involucrin, and expression of high molecular weight keratins. The maintenance of human fetal epidermal keratinocytes in these two in vitro systems and their ability to express many differentiated characteristics suggests that these cultures will be valuable for studies of the molecular mechanisms that regulate the regionally specific differentiation of the human fetal epidermis.
4296079| HeLa cell variants capable of multiplying in the presence of sodium butyrate were used to study the relationship of cell cycle position to human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) production and regulation of the genes encoding hCG - and -subunits. The butyrate-resistant variants exhibit several different stable phenotypes. In wild-type HeLa cells, butyrate arrests cell division and modulates synthesis of - and -subunits of glycoprotein hormones by coordinately regulating steady-state levels of their respective mRNAs. Because the variant cell lines replicate, in addition to producing hCG subunits in the presence of butyrate, cell cycle arrest does not seem to be a requirement for expression of glycoprotein hormone genes. Studies of histone modification suggest that neither hyperacetylation of histones H3 and H4 nor dephosphorylation of histones H1 and H2A mediates inhibition of cell replication. In the variants, -subunit and hCG levels are independently regulated, as a consequence of independent regulation of - and -hCG mRNA levels. Long-term effects of butyrate include derepression of some genes (hCG in the variant AO) and repression of others (hCG in variant AO). Moreover, hormone production correlates with the steady-state levels of mRNA for each of the subunits, suggesting that regulation occurs before translation. These findings indicate that the butyrate-resistant variant cell lines are valuable for studies of the molecular mechanisms involved in regulation of expression of ectopic hormones. 
4296404|Rings of rat aorta cultured in Matrigel, a reconstituted gel composed of basement membrane molecules, gave rise to three-dimensional networks composed of solid cellular cords and occasional microvessels with slitlike lumina. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies showed that the solid cords were composed of endothelial sprouts surrounded by nonendothelial mesenchymal cells. The angiogenic response of the aortic rings in Matrigel was compared to that obtained in interstitial collagen, fibrin, or plasma clot. Morphometric analysis demonstrated that the mean luminal area of the microvascular sprouts and channels was significantly smaller in Matrigel than in collagen, fibrin, or plasma clot. The percentage of patent microvessels in Matrigel was also markedly reduced. Autoradiographic studies of
20171550|In the process of wound healing keratinocytes and fibroblasts play an important role, keratinocytes in the re-epithelization process and fibroblasts in the process of wound contraction. We have studied the role of human keratinocytes and fibroblasts in the rearrangement of collagen in a collagen lattice model system. Our results revealed that keratinocytes as well as fibroblasts rearrange the collagen lattice; this occurs in a cell number and collagen concentration dependent manner. The optimal gel contraction is obtained in the presence of keratinocytes on the top of and of fibroblasts in the collagen lattice, the situation most closely approaching the in vivo situation. Between the two types of cells, differences in morphologic behavior were observed: when incorporated into the gel the keratinocytes retained their spherical shape throughout the whole culture period, but fibroblasts became elongated and formed extensions. Our data suggest that not only fibroblasts but also keratinocytes may be involved in the process of wound contraction.
4296238|A human cell line has been established from a renal adenocarcinoma rib metastasis of a 58-y-old male. This cell line has been maintained in continuous culture for 20 mo. through more than 50 passages. It displays simultaneous expression of the intermediate filaments cytokeratin and vimentin. Flow cytometric analysis of DNA content reveals a major hyperdiploid population.
20171566| Neurons from brains of chick embryos and pond snails (Lymnaea stagnalis) were cultured for 3 to 4 d in the presence of no toxins, inorganic lead (PbCl), or organic lead (triethyl lead chloride). In chick neurons, inorganic lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 270 M total lead, approximately 70 nM free Pb) but did not reduce the number of neurites per cell or the mean neurite length. Triethyl lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 0.24 M) and the mean neurite length (extrapolated IC = 3.6 M) but did not reduce the number of neurites per cell. In Lymnaea neurons, inorganic lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 13 M total lead; approximately 10 nM free Pb). Triethyl lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 0.4 M) and exerted significant toxicity at 0.2 M. The two forms of lead affected neurite growth in qualitatively different ways, which suggests that their mechanisms of action are different. 
20171450|We have used the cholesterol auxotrophy of NS-1 mouse myeloma cells as the basis for selecting NS-1 hybridomas. The outgrowth of nascent NS-1 hybridomas in cholesterol-free serum-free medium was 3- to 9-fold more efficient than that in HAT medium and resulted in 3- to 13-times as many antigen-reactive hybridoma wells. This method of hybridoma selection can be applied with any sterol-dependent parent cell line. Hybridomas established under serum-free culture conditions were growth inhibited by fetal calf serum.
4295949| We have recently shown that extensive proliferation of liver parenchymal cells takes place in adult male Xenopus frogs in response to estradiol-17, which also induces synthesis and secretion of vitellogenin, the precursor of yolk proteins. We demonstrate here that liver parenchymal cells from abult male animals can be maintained for several weeks in a defined tissue culture medium containing added insulin, dexamethasone, and triiodothyronine. Under these conditions the cells do not divide, but can synthesize DNA. Maximum DNA synthesis occurs in cells that have achieved monolayer morphology under low plating densities. Estradiol-17 causes a dose-dependent increase in the number of cells synthesizing DNA, as well as inducing synthesis of vitellogenin. Estrogen-dependent, but not background, DNA synthesis is inhibited by the antiestrogen tamoxifen. These results imply that estradiol-17 acts directly on liver cells to initiate DNA replication, probably by interaction with a receptor protein and induction of specific gene transcription. 
4295950|The levels of cyclic GMP (cGMP) and cyclic AMP (cAMP) were assayed, using radioimmunoassay, in newt blastemata cultured with and without insulin. Our observations show that insulin significantly increases the levels of cGMP over the control values, whereas the levels of cAMP remain unaltered. Our in vitro studies also show that
4296480|We have developed a procedure to explant fibroblasts from the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and the medial collateral ligament (MCL) of the rabbit knee, and have optimized conditions for maintaining them in culture. Maximal growth for both ACL and MCL cells was obtained with Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 15% fetal bovine serum and 250 M ascorbate. ACL and MCL fibroblasts displayed intrinsic differences in their responses to changes in culture parameters. Specifically, they displayed different growth responses when plated at different densities and responded to RPMI 1640 medium in very different ways. There were also biochemical differences between the cell types. Both cell types produced similar amounts of collagen in culture, but the ratio of type I to type III, the major collagen subtypes produced by these cells, were different. ACL fibroblasts produced 86.7% type I and 13.3% type III, and MCL fibroblasts produced 71.1% type I and 28.9% type III. In addition, total protein produced by ACL fibroblasts was higher than that produced by MCL cells. This confirms the suggestions of previous researchers that such differences might exist.
4296670|An improved method for obtaining optimal mitogenic responses in peripheral blood lymphocytes has been devised by utilizing autologous or homologous rainbow trout plasma. The use of 10% plasma in culture results in up to a 60-fold increase in the proliferative potential of the peripheral blood lymphocyte response to lipopolysaccharide when compared to the more routinely used fetal bovine serum. Furthermore, it has been observed that lymphocytes which were unresponsive to in vitro mitogenic challenge when cultured in fetal bovine serum, responded well when cultured in the presence of trout plasma. Also in contrast to previous mitogen studies where maximal stimulation was reported to occur on Day 4-5 of culture, the stimulatory effects of lipopolysaccharide were greatest on Day 10 when plasma was employed. Together these data suggest that former conditions of lymphocyte cell culture, employing only fetal bovine serum, not only fail to provide the optimal conditions for cell growth, but in many cases the essential conditions. However, these requirements are met by supplementation with trout plasma, which seems to contain heat-stable factors responsible for the enhanced mitogenic responsiveness.
4296033|Cells from a continuous human line and freshly isolated cells from old adult mice heterozygous at the Mod-1 locus were fused in the presence of polyethylene glycol (PEG). The production of hybrid cells, as a function of PEG concentration in the presence and absence of phytohemagglutinin (PHA), was measured by cell survival and proliferation on selective medium. The incorporation of PHA into the fusion mixture allowed cell fusion to take place at nontoxic concentrations of PEG. PHA increased the frequency of cell fusion and increased the production of viable hybrid cells from 138- to over 2800-fold depending on cell type. The results suggest that the procedure may have broad application in promoting the fusion of cells sensitive to PEG. Clones were analyzed for isozymes of malic enzyme and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. The expression of the gene encoding X-linked mouse glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase confirmed that the cells were hybrids. These cells lost other mouse isozymes rapidly. In those clones in which the mouse malic enzyme gene was expressed, the product of
4296205|Normal rat prostate epithelial cell growth requires both epidermal growth factor and heparin-binding growth factor/prostatropin. In contrast, epithelial cells derived from the transplantable Dunning R3327H rat tumor require either epidermal growth factor or heparin-binding growth factor/prostatropin. Transforming growth factor type beta inhibited normal epithelial cell growth. Transforming growth factor beta inhibited epidermal growth factor-dependent growth of tumor epithelial cells, independent of epidermal growth factor concentrations. Transforming growth factor beta increased the effective dose of heparin-binding growth factor type 1 required to support tumor epithelial cell growth by 10-fold but saturating levels of heparin-binding growth factor type 1 (290 pM) completely attenuated the inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta. These results suggest that prostate tumor epithelial cells may escape the inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta as a consequence of alteration of the concurrent requirement for both epidermal growth factor (or homologues) and heparin-binding growth factors.
4296112|A modified protoplast isolation technique, applicable to a range of dihaploid Solanum tuberosum genotypes, has been developed. A combination of high calcium and high pH was used to fuse mesophyl protoplasts of dihaploid S. tuberosum (PDH40) and the diploid wild species S. brevidens. Large numbers of colonies were obtained after fusion and putative hybrids selected on the basis of phenotype from regenerated shoots. From these, 11 somatic hybrid plants have been identified by their isoenzyme patterns and morphologic characteristics. Four of these hybrids had the expected chromosome number of 48. The approach of mass culture after fusion followed by selection of hybrids from regenerated shoots and the application of somatic hybridization to potato breeding are discussed.
4296218|A serum-free system has been developed for selective growth and long-term culture of rat thymic epithelial cells. The growth media is a modification of McKeehan's WAJC 404, plus insulin, cholera toxin, dexamethasone, and epidermal growth factor. Cultures have been continuously passaged and maintained for over 6 mo., and a cloned cell line, TEA3A1, has been established. These cells are epithelial, judging by morphology and ultrastructure, and are positive for A2B5 and thymosin 
4295923|This study has defined a method for preparation and monolayer culture of cells from chorion laeve. Cell number and cell protein content are stable over 7 d in culture. The cells will divide in response to epidermal growth factor in the presence of a supplemented, enriched medium and a collagen matrix, but they lose steroidogenic activity over time in culture. This culture system can be used as the starting point for the development of a chemically defined hormone-supplemented, serum-free culture system for studies of chorion cell differentiation and fetal membrane cell interactions.
4296040|The long-lived keratinocyte line, NM 1, was isolated from the epidermis of a pool of foreskins obtained from apparently normal neonates at the time of circumcision. Cultures were initiated in Dulbecco's minimal essential medium containing 20% fetal bovine serum,
20171499| High numbers of embryos are difficult to obtain in liquid cultures of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.) because discrete cell aggregates, produced through calli fragmentation, do not support embryo growth. In an effort to demonstrate that embryo development is possible from discrete cell aggregates, we compared embryo formation from cell aggregates 250-355 m in diameter cultured either in suspension in liquid medium, on agar solidified medium, or immobilized on alginate beads floated in liquid medium. Embryos were initiated but remained arrested in their globular stage on cell aggregates cultured in suspension. Embryos developed to the torpedo stage from cell aggregates cultured on solidified medium and from cell aggregates anchored on alginate beads. Thus, embryos continued to develop beyond the globular stage when a structural polarity, which led probably to the establishment of a physiological polarity, was created. The production of sweet potato embryos in liquid culture can be improved by using alginate beads or culture conditions and protocols leading to the release during calli fragmentation of polarized individual cell aggregates. 
20171361|Parenchymal organoidal structures that were obtained from collagenase digestion of reduction mammoplasty specimens of apparently normal human breasts have been grown in short-term primary cultures, either on plastic or on floating gels of polymerized rat-tail collagen. Three morphologically distinct major cell types are readily observed in both systems: cuboidal cells, which occupy apical positions on collagen gels; larger, epithelioid, or basal cells on gels; and elongated cells which penetrate into the gel. In addition, a fourth cell type, that of a large, flat cell, is observed less readily by phase contrast microscopy on the surface of cultures grown on plastic. Immunofluorescent and immunocytochemical staining of cultures on plastic or histologic sections of cultures on gels have been undertaken with antisera and other histochemical reagents that stain the different parenchymal cell types in vivo. Thus antisera to epithelial membrane antigen(s), monoclonal antibodies (MABs) to the defatted mammary milk fat globule membrane, peanut lectin, and keratin MAB LE61, which preferentially stain the epithelial cells of ducts in vivo, also stain the cuboidal/apical cells in vitro. The large, flat cells are stained intensely by the first three reagents but not by the last one. Antisera to collagen IV, laminin, fibronectin, actin, keratin MAB LP34, MABs to the common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen, and MAB LICR-LON-23.10, which showed enhanced staining for the ductal myoepithelial cells in vivo, also stain the epithelioid/elongated cells in vitro. However, the effect of the last four reagents is reduced considerably in most elongated cells, and MAB LP34 stains the large, flat cells intensely. Heterogeneous cells of intermediate morphologies and staining patterns between the cuboidal/flat cells and large epithelioid cells have also been identified. The results suggest that the cuboidal cells and large, flat cells are related to mammary epithelial cells, whereas the large epithelioid/elongated cells have some characteristics of myoepithelial cells, and that intermediate forms may exist in culture between the two parenchymal cell types.
4296671|Amiprilose hydrochloride has been shown to inhibit the proliferation of a number of hyperproliferative cell types including psoriatic skin cells. In the present study, the effects of amiprilose hydrochloride on human tissue equivalents were examined by incubating a) dermal equivalents, b) skin equivalents in the process of epidermalization, and c) mature skin equivalents, with varying concentrations of the drug. In all three models amiprilose hydrochloride concentrations of 0.1% (wt/vol) and lower were not toxic to fibroblasts and keratinocytes and did not interfere with the differentiation of the skin equivalent and the developing skin equivalent. When tested in dermal equivalents, concentrations of amiprilose hydrochloride between 0.1 and 0.5% resulted in changes in fibroblast morphology with development of large intracellular vacuoles, and concentrations greater than 5% were toxic. In mature skin equivalents, in addition to changes in fibroblast morphology, amiprilose hydrochloride in concentrations of 1 to 10% affected the epidermis. When 0.5% amiprilose hydrochloride was present in the developing skin equivalent during differentiation, the epidermal keratinocytes were also affected. Thus the morphology of basal keratinocytes was modified, the differentiation was incomplete, and the dermal-epidermal attachment was compromised. These studies suggest the possibility of an extracellular mechanism of action of amiprilose hydrochloride and delineate acceptable dosage ranges for the potential drug.
4296719|Fluorescence microscopy performed on living cells is a valuable technique for elucidating patterns of cell growth in vitro over artificial biomaterials such as vascular grafts, and for in vivo studies such as identification and treatment of atherosclerotic plaques. Two fluorescent dyes of particular value for vital fluorescence studies are Rhodamine-123 and 3,3'-dioctadecylindocarbocyanine-labeled low density lipoprotein (Dil-LDL). We examined the toxicity of these two dyes and of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), a solvent used in Rhodamine-123 studies, on the growth of
20171592|The face develops from small buds of tissue positioned around the primitive mouth. The chondrogenic and myogenic cell populations contained within these facial primordia in mouse embryos have been investigated in short-term micromass culture. Chondrogenesis occurred in frontonasal mass mesenchyme from E11-E13 embryos, in maxillary mesenchyme from E12.5 embryos and was absent in mandibular mesenchyme. Myogenesis was greatest in mandibular mesenchyme, moderate in maxillary mesenchyme and low in the frontonasal mass. When compared with chick embryos the mouse facial primordia have lower chondrogenic potential, which in the case of the frontonasal mass may be related to the relative outgrowth of the primordia in the two species. Chondrogenesis in the mouse mandibular mesenchyme may be affected by the presence of a large population of odontogenic mesenchyme. The behavior of myogenic cell populations is related to the pattern of the musculature of the face, as the mandible contains the most muscle, the maxilla some, and the frontonasal mass none. However, the presence of myoblasts in early mesenchyme of all primordia may indicate that, as with chick, facial primordia are initially seeded with muscle cells and that the size of the cell population is subsequently controlled according to the development of the musculature within the primordia.
4296676|Platelet-derived growth factor (BB dimer; PDGF-BB) stimulates a mitogenic response in A-10 vascular smooth muscle cells. In addition, PDGF-BB stimulates phospholipase D activity against phosphatidylcholine in A-10 cells. This response was observed as a rapid metabolism of phosphatidylcholine to phosphatidate and choline; a subsequent metabolism generates sustained levels of diacylglycerol. The accumulation of phosphatidylethanol, a transphosphatidylation product of phospholipase D, was obvious in PDGF-treated cells. PDGF-BB also stimulates a chemotactic response in A-10 cells. The concentrations of PDGF-BB required to stimulate mitogenesis, phospholipase D activity and chemotaxis are similar. This finding shows that PDGF induces a variety of cellular responses and suggests that these responses may share common metabolic pathways. That conception was tested by investigating the activity of the different PDGF dimers. PDGF-AA had little or no activity in A-10 cells for any of the responses measured. PDGF-AB and PDGF-BB were equally potent in stimulating mitogenic responses. However, the AB heterodimer was only half as active as PDGF-BB with respect to activation of phospholipase D and chemotactic responses. These results demonstrate that PDGF stimulates phospholipase D in vascular smooth muscle cells. In addition, the data indicate that different PDGF dimers can transduce varying signals and suggest a link between the mechanisms by which PDGF-BB activates phospholipase D and the chemotactic response.
4295854|The ability of cyclic AMP-elevating agents to induce normal differentiation has been investigated in retinoid-deficient hamster tracheal epithelium in organ culture. Dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP) and other cAMP-regulating agents alone caused disappearance of keratin and regeneration of normal mucociliary epithelium in retinoid-deficient cultures. Incubation of retinoid-deficient cultures with dbcAMP, isoproterenol, and cholera toxin (CT) (without addition of exogenous retinoid) reversed keratinization in a dose-dependent manner. The ED
4296228|The structural and functional properties of the endothelium vary in relation to anatomic site and position along the vascular tree. Cultures of endothelial cells have been obtained so far from large arteries, large veins and capillaries, but not from venules. We now report techniques for culturing not only rat arterial and venous endothelium, but also a special method for obtaining and culturing venular endothelium. The technique is based on the principle of "vascular labeling," whereby an insoluble pigment can be permanently deposited in the wall of the venules, making them easily visible by light microscopy. The venules of a rat cremaster muscle are labeled with a local injection of histamine followed by Monastral blue B intravenously (i.V.); 24 hours later selected venules are isolated by microdissection and either enzymatically dispersed or placed directly into tissue culture wells. The wells are coated with fibronectin and laminin and supplemented with DMEM, 20% fetal calf serum, and endothelial cell growth factor. Polygonal and spindly endothelial cells begin as clusters, grow in sheets, and sometimes form tubes. The cells stain variably for Factor VIII-related antigen, Ulex Europeus I lectin, and non-muscle specific actin. They synthesize angiotensin-converting enzyme, but do not metabolize acetylated LDL. Ultrastructurally, they display pinocytic vesicles, microtendons, and tight junctions, but not Weibel-Palade bodies. We believe that this method will be important for studying the pathophysiology of venules, which are the preferential target of inflammatory mediators and the typical site of inflammatory cell diapedesis.
4295952| A new established cell line, 79f7Dv3g, of Drosophila virilis consisting initially of male and female cells and represented now, after 6 yr of cultivation, only by male cells is described. The population doubling time is 36 h at 25 C. The cell culture is also able to grow in serum-free media for an indefinite time without special selection and has a population doubling time of 2 d. 
4295756|A cell line, designated as OS-RC-2, has been established from a renal cell carcinoma in a 52-yr-old Japanese male patient and maintained for 23 mo. through 60 in vitro passages. The OS-RC-2 formed monolayers of polygonal epithelial cells and lacked contact inhibition. Doubling time of cells was about 60 h at the 30th passage. Electron microscopic findings indicated numerous long microvilli on the cell surface and many glycogen granules in the cytoplasm of this cell line, which are characteristic structures of renal cell carcinoma. Chromosomal analysis revealed that a small portion of this cell line had a hypodiploid modal number of 40 and a large portion had a hypotetraploid modal number of 75. The characteristics of the karyotype were one detected marker chromosome and the translocation between the Chromosomes 2 and 13. Cell line OS-RC-2 was serially transplantable into nude mice, and histopathological findings of heterotransplanted tumor showed a close similarity to those of the original tumor. Histocompatibility antigens of OS-RC-2 were HLA-A9, Bw52, which were identical to those of the peripheral blood lymphocytes of the patient.
4296233|Human microvascular endothelial cells (HMVEC) from adult adipose tissue were cultured in MCDB 131 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Under these conditions, HMVEC from seven different donors had finite proliferative life spans ranging from 14.5 to 23.5 population doublings (PD), with a mean life span of 19 PD. Addition of 10% conditioned medium from activated human leukocyte cultures (BM Condimed[REGESTERERED TRADE MARK SIZNE]) extended the life span of HMVEC to 31 to 41 PD, with a mean life span of 37 PD. At the end of lifespan, HMVEC cultures both with and without BM Condimed had very low labeling indices (0 to 5% [
4295947| Methods are described for the short-term culture (48 to 56 h) of lung, liver, and kidney cells from C57B1/6 mice. With these techniques, mice can be exposed in vivo to test compounds and the cells grown on cover glasses in the presence of 5-bromo-2' -deoxyuridine (BrdUrd) (5 M) for analysis of sister chromatid exchange (SCE) and cell cycle kinetics. Mice exposed to vinyl carbamate (VC) ((10 to 60 mg/kg) by i.p. injection were used in the initial examination of this system. Cultured lung and kidney cells from exposed animals (60 mg/kg) exhibited significant increases in SCE frequencies (approximately 3 to 5 times baseline); however, liver cells were much less responsive and showed less than a twofold increase over baseline SCE levels. Lung cultures initiated as long as 320 h after VC exposure (60 mg/kg) revealed a persistence of lesions leading to the formation of SCEs in vitro. This methodology permits analysis of cytogenetic damage in organs with very low mitotic activity after in vivo exposure to known or suspected genotoxicants. 
4295781|The intermediate filaments of most epithelial cells in vivo consist solely of cytokeratins. Using monoclonal antibodies to vimentin or keratin, we have examined the expression of vimentin in homologous specimens of frozen tissue sections and primary cultures of normal human mammary epithelium. In frozen sections, only epithelial cells reacted with the antikeratin antibody, whereas antivimentin reactivity was associated with stromal cells. All epithelial cultures were positive for cytokeratin and in addition coexpressed vimentin as strongly as cultured fibroblasts and as early as the 4th d after initiation of the culture. Two-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis of cytoskeletal preparations of secondary cultures of normal mammary epithelium have also demonstrated the appearance of a moiety identical to the vimentin found in cultured fibroblasts. Our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that vimentin expression is induced, possibly as a result of changes in cell shape or growth rate, when cells are freed from three-dimensional restrictions imposed by the tissue of origin.
4296132| Heat inactivation (56 C for 40 min) of bovine calf serum was shown to diminish its capacity to promote the attachment of cells to plastic or glass surfaces. This effect was not observed in stationary cultures (culture dishes) but became manifest under conditions in which the cells were subjected to a small amount of liquid shear force, i.e. by growing cells in roller bottles or culture tubes. Of four cell lines tested on bovine calf serum (SV-BHK, BALB-3T3, CV-1, and FS-4) SV-BHK and CV-1 cells showed the greatest sensitivity to loss of attachment-promoting activity. Fetal bovine serum also seemed to be affected by heat inactivation but to a lesser degree than bovine calf serum. Treatment of vessel surfaces with either unheated calf serum or specific attachment factors (gelatin, poly-D-lysine, and fibronectin) greatly increased cell attachment in the presence of heat inactivated serum. Heat inactivation did not seem to affect the ability of cells to grow after attachment. Of the four cell lines tested, the normal human fibroblast line (FS-4) was shown to be most effective at conditioning medium and restoring its capacity to promote the attachment of all four cell lines. 
4296267|Protoplasts were isolated from seedling hypocotyls of soybean (Glycine max), and cultured in both liquid and agarose-solidified, modified K8P medium. Nuclear staining revealed that only 2% of protoplasts lacked a nucleus, 93% contained a single nucleus, and 5% contained more than one. Maximum protoplast yields and subsequent division frequencies, in liquid medium, were obtained from 5 days-old seedlings. Maximum division frequencies (54%) were obtained from hypocotyl protoplasts plated at a density of
20171483|Plants have been regenerated from nodular, green callus derived from cotyledon, petiole and leaf lamina explants of G. argyrea, a perennial relative of the soybean (G. max). The degree of response obtained was governed primarily by the genotype used, accession G1626 proving the most responsive. Shoots were also recovered from about 6.0% of cotyledon protoplasts of this genotype. The implications of these results are discussed in relation to genetic manipulations using this species.
4296163|A total of 24 clones (HZ 1075/UND-A through X) were initially isolated by dilution plating from the established IPLB-HZ 1075 cell line. Many of the isolates with highly vacuolated cytoplasms eventually died during subculturing. The cloned cell strains differed in their predominant morphology, cell doubling times, and relative ability to support replication of the singly encapsulated nuclear polyhedrosis virus of Heliothis zea (HzSNPV). The origin of the cloned cell strains was confirmed by comparing their isozyme profiles with those of the parental IPLB-HZ 1075 cell line and H. zea larvae using stains for fumerate hydratase, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and malic dehydrogenase (MDH). One dipteran and several lepidopteran cell lines maintained in our lab were also separable using stains for LDH and MDH.
20171497| A serum-free, hormone-supplemented medium containing insulin, transferrin, and triiodothyronine (ITT medium), able to support differentiation of rat adipose precursor cells, has been used to study the regulation of the development of adipocytes in the rabbit. Adipose conversion was assessed by the appearance of glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. Stromal-vascular cells from rabbit perirenal adipose tissue differentiated to a very low extent or not at all in ITT medium. Supplementation of ITT medium with growth hormone or fibroblast growth factor did not increase the proportion of differentiated cells. In contrast, rabbit stromal-vascular cells were able to differentiate in ITT medium supplemented with glucocorticoids (dexamethasone, corticosterone) whereas sex steroids (-estradiol, testosterone, progesterone) did not affect the differentiation process. In the presence of both dexamethasone and insulin, 20 to 50% of rabbit stromal-vascular cells differentiated into adipocytes within 2 wk of culture. The stimulatory actions of dexamethasone or insulin were dose-dependent. Insulin-like growth Factor-I (IGF-I), did not replace insulin under our culture conditions and had only a slight effect when added along with dexamethasone (100 nM) and insulin (1.7 nM). The results suggest that glucocorticoids, in association with insulin, may play an important role in the development of adipocytes from rabbit precursor cells. 
20171373| A new method has been developed to count cells "in situ", based on a fluorogenic enzyme assay that measures the activity of alkaline phosphatase. Increasing cell number was shown to correlate closely with alkaline phosphatase activity and this relationship did not change with time in culture. The alkaline phosphatase assay (ALP assay) was able to estimate relative cell numbers over a range from about 10 to 5  10 for many cell types, including Hep-2, a derivative of HeLa, several human colorectal cell lines SW1222, SW837, LS174T and HT29, a normal human diploid cell strain MRC5 and a rodent line NIH-3T3. The ALP assay is rapid and efficient, making it a useful method for studying growth assays. 
4296118| Cecum from chickens, 4 wk old, can best be maintained for 24 h in a serum-free organ culture system using Trowell T8 medium agar sheet at 25 C. As determined by light microscopy as well as scanning and transmission electron microscopy, mucosal architecture involving classic ultrastructure of chicken cecal mucosa was preserved. Protein content of cecal explants did not change up to 48 h of culture. DNA content of cecal explants did not change up to 24 h of culture but decreased significantly to two-thirds of control in 48 h of culture. Based on the morphologic and physiologic findings, it became evident that this organ culture system using Trowell T8 medium at 25 C can be successfully used as an in vitro experimental model for as long as 24 h. The organ culture system could be a useful tool, from the structural integrity of ceca observed in this study, in investigating mucosal function and mucosal response to drugs, carcinogens, trophic factors, and pathogens. 
4296253|Some hybridoma clones made by fusion of a human lymphoblastoid cell line, HO323 with human B lymphocytes, secreted not only IgA but also IgM-like immunoglobulin molecules. The IgM-like immunoglobulin had a molecular size of 900 K which corresponded to that of IgM. Immunochemical analyses revealed that the IgM-like immunoglobulin contained two monomeric IgA and three monomeric IgM molecules. In the IgA moieties, half of original light chains were replaced with x chains derived from the IgM, and vice versa.
4296724|Pyrroline 5-carboxylate, an intermediate of amino acid metabolism, is released into medium by cultured normal human fibroblasts. With cells made quiescent by serum starvation, the addition of 10% fetal bovine serum augmented the release of pyrroline 5-carboxylate into medium by 2.5-fold. Although platelet-derived growth factor was without effect, both insulin and insulinlike growth factor-1 nearly reproduced the serum effect. The dose-dependence of insulin and insulinlike growth factor 1 effects suggested their mediation by their own respective receptors. Although the mechanism for the stimulatory effect remains unknown, these effects of insulin and insulinlike growth factor 1 on pyrroline 5-carboxylate suggest hormonal regulation of pyrroline 5-carboxylate release.
20171553| The 5-AMPase activity of the ectoenzyme 5-nucleotidase has been measured in a variety of cell lines, using intact cells. Human cell types showed two orders of magnitude higher enzyme activity than mouse cell lines. The ectoenzyme is inhibited by adenosine 5-(,-methylene) diphosphate and Concanavalin A. A different extent of 5-nucleotidase lectin inhibition was observed in the studied cell lines, suggesting that the corresponding ectoenzymes are glycoproteins with a different type or degree, or both, of glycosylation. The 5-nucleotidase activity increased during subculture and decreased after cell transformation. Generally, the 5-nucleotidase activity was two- to five-fold higher in monolayer than in suspension cell culture. A relation between cell growth and 5-AMPase activity was also observed. Enzyme activity increased at the end of the lag phase (glioblastoma cells) or during the exponential phase (the other two cell lines). After confluence, the activity decreased to the initial or even lower range of activity. Observed activity variations with cell proliferation correlate with modifications of 5-AMPase activity during subculture. 
20171551|The colony-forming efficiency of rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cells was determined in serum-free media containing different types of commercially available bovine serum albumin (BSA): crude fraction V, essentially globulin-free, essentially fatty-acid-free, and essentially globulin- and fatty-acid-free BSA. RTE cells exhibited a concentration-dependent increase in colony-forming efficiency in response to crude fraction V BSA. Similar results were obtained using essentially globulin-free BSA. However, deletion of cholera toxin from the medium resulted in a decrease in the colony-forming efficiency for cells plated in high concentrations (&gt;2 mg/ml) of globulin-free, but not one type of fraction V, BSA. Essentially fatty-acid-free or essentially fatty-acid- and globulin-free BSA stimulated RTE cell colony formation at low concentrations (less than 2.5 to 5 mg BSA/ml) but resulted in concentration-dependent decreases in colony-forming efficiency at higher concentrations. The response of cells to these BSAs was not dependent on cholera toxin. Finally, commercially available fraction V BSA prepared by heat shock, dialysis, charcoal treatment, and deionization was stimulatory at low concentrations but inhibitory at high concentrations. These data suggest that impure preparations of BSA can, under different conditions, stimulate or inhibit cell proliferation and that the expression of these activities is affected by the method of BSA preparation, the concentration of BSA used, and, in some cases, by the presence or absence of cholera toxin.
4296533|Suspensions of renal proximal tubules (RPT) are the in vitro model for many biochemical and physiologic investigations. Inasmuch as there are numerous procedures for tubule isolation and the more commonly used enzymatic procedures may disrupt the basement membrane, there is a need for information comparing the influence of various isolation methods on RPT viability and function in long-term suspension. Rabbit RPT isolated a) enzymatically (ENZ) by in vitro collagenase digestion and Percoll size and density purification, and b) mechanically (MECH) by in vitro iron oxide perfusion and purification by sieving and magnetic removal of glomeruli were compared for viability, morphology, and functional stability during long-term suspension. RPT isolated by ENZ and MECH methods had excellent viability (< 15% lactate dehydrogenase release), limited lipid peroxidation ($<0.2 nmol MDA \cdot mg protein^{-1}$), and stable nystatin-stimulated oxygen consumption (QO
4296658| A method to culture rat cerebral microvascular endothelial cells (RCMECs) was developed and adapted to concurrently obtain cultures of rat aortic endothelial cells (RAECs) without subculturing, cloning, or "weeding." The attachment and growth requirements of endothelial cell clusters from isolated brain microvessels were first evaluated. RCMECs required fetal bovine serum to attach efficiently. Attachment and growth also depended on the matrix provided (fibronectin  laminin  gelatin > poly-D-lysine  Matrigel > hyaluronic acid  plastic) and the presence of endothelial cell growth supplement and heparin in the growth medium. Non-endothelial cells are removed by allowing these cells to attach to a matrix that RCMECs attach to poorly (e.g., poly-D-lysine) and then transferring isolated endothelial cell clusters to fibronectin-coated dishes. These cell cultures, labeled with 1,1'-dioctadecy1-3,3,3,3'-tetramethyl-indocarboxyamine perchlorate (DiI-Ac-LDL) and analyzed using flow cytometry, were 97.7  2.6% (n = 6) pure. By excluding those portions designed to isolate brain microvessels, the method was adapted to obtain RAEC cultures. RAECs do not isolate as clusters and have different morphology in culture, but respond similarly to matrices and growth medium supplements. RCMECs and RAECs have Factor VIII antigen, accumulate DiI-Ac-LDL, contain Weibel-Palade bodies, and have complex junctional structures. The activities of -glutamyl transferase and alkaline phosphatase were measured as a function of time in culture. RCMECs had higher enzymatic activity than RAECs. In both RCMECs and RAECs enzyme activity decreased with time in culture. The function of endothelial cells is specialized depending on its location. This culture method allows comparison of two endothelial cell cultures obtained using very similar culture conditions, and describes their initial characterization. These cultures may provide a model system to study specialized endothelial cell functions and endothelial cell differentiation. 
4296470|The present study was undertaken to assess and compare the toxic effects of papaverine hydrochloride and its metabolites. Primary cell cultures of rat hepatocytes were treated with papaverine (papaver), 3'-O-desmethyl (3'-OH), 4'-O-desmethyl (4'-OH), and 6-O-desmethyl (6-OH) papaverine at 1  10
20171509| Kidney cells in culture represent one of many in vitro approaches for studying drug-induced nephrotoxicity. Potential advantages of cell culture systems compared to more traditional in vitro models include a) the ability to examine direct effects at the cellular level, b) extended viability, c) ability for long-term storage, and d) capabilities for automation. Primary cultures of kidney tubules as well as cell lines of kidney origin are currently under evaluation as model systems for the assessment of nephrotoxicity. The application of two renal cell systems, rabbit primary proximal tubule cultures and the pig kidney cell line, LLC-PK, in studying mechanisms of drug-induced nephrotoxicity is described in this communication. Potentially valuable insights into the renal pathogenesis associated with the antitumor agent, cis-diamminedichloroplatinum II, and the aminoglycoside antibiotic, gentamicin, have been obtained utilizing these renal cell models. Challenges in renal cell culture involve the characterization and maintenance of differentiated properties and the development of technologies to a) study bidirectional transport-toxicity of drugs, and b) provide a dynamic vs. static fluid environment as in vivo. Despite these unique challenges as well as the universal challenges involved in extrapolating any in vitro data to the in vivo situation, recent studies indicate that renal cells in culture are useful in the elucidation of mechanisms of drug-induced renal injury. 
4296372|The culturing of human endometrium in conventional plastic dishes and media is only partially successful, mainly because a growth of a heterogeneous population of cells is achieved. Naturally produced extracellular matrix closely resembles the subepithelial basement membrane and seems to affect both growth and differentiation of cells. These qualities of the extracellular matrix (ECM) were applied for obtaining endometrial epithelial cultures. Endometrial tissue specimens were plated after slicing on ECM-coated dishes and kept for up to 8 d. The growth of a confluent homogeneous tissue composed of polygonal epithelial-like cells was demonstrated. To further characterize these cells, cultures were examined by scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy revealed flattened polygonal cells covered with microvilli, among which ciliated cells were observed. By transmission electron microscopy the cells were seen as a monolayer, with some cells overlapping, closely adherent to the matrix. Microvilli, as well as intracellular vacuoles and glycogen granules were observed. Cell type specific cytoskeletal markers were demonstrated by antibodies to intermediate filament proteins (keratin and epithelial membrane antigen). Taken together, the morphologic and immunohistochemical studies indicate that a selective growth of the epithelial component of endometrial tissue was obtained after plating unprocessed endometrial tissue fragments on ECM-coated culture dishes.
4296011| Kidney cortical tubular cells, mainly proximal tubular cells, isolated from human kidney and grown either on a basement membrane substrate in chemically defined medium or on plastic in serum-supplemented medium, had substantial proliferate potential and could be propagated for more than 10 generations or 8 passages before senescence. Basement membrane produced on a plastic substrate by the HR-9 endodermal cell line could replace serum supplementation in promoting tubular cell growth. Tubular cells grown on an HR-9 basement membrane substrate exhibited stable epithelial morphology over an extended period of time; in the presence of 5% serum they differentiated into organized structures such as hemicysts and cell cords. Cells grown on plastic failed to differentiate and gradually degenerated. Tubular cells on HR-9 basement membrane were characterized by densely packed microvilli, abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and free polysomes, basal cell membrane interdigitations, a well-developed endocytotic apparatus, and conspicuous junctional complexes-all features of the proximal tubular cell. Compared with cells on plastic substrate, there were higher levels of the brush border enzymes -glutamyl transpeptidase, L-leucine aminopeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase in cells maintained on an HR-9 basement membrane substrate, further supporting the conclusion that a basement membrane substrate promoted differentiation of tubular cells. These data and morphological observations indicate that a basement membrane substrate can promote growth and both functional and morphologic differentiation of human kidney tubular cells. 
20171468|Rat prostate extracts contain an abundant 20-22 kilodalton heparin-binding protein with near identical chromatographic properties, but only 0.2-1% of the mitogenic activity, of bovine brain heparin-binding growth factor-1 (acidic fibroblast growth factor). Amino terminal amino acid sequence (met-met-thr-asp-lys-asn-leu-lys-lys-lys-ile-glu-gly-asn-trp-arg-thr-val-tyr -leu-ala-ala-ser-?-val-glu-lys-ile-asn-glu-gly-ser-pro) and immunochemical analysis revealed that the protein is identical to the androgen-dependent protein "probasin".
4296326|We produced human-human hybridomas by fusing lymph node lymphocytes of breast cancer patients with a fusion partner, HO-323 cells, in the presence of 50% polyethylene glycol, and screened hybridomas producing monoclonal antibodiy (MoAb) reactive to a breast cancer cell line, MCF-7. Among 11 hybridomas secreting IgM reactive to MCF-7, four hybridomas (H15A3, H15F2, K15B4, and K15C3) produced IgM reacting specifically to breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7 and HBC-5). Among them, H15A3 proliferated in a serum-free (RDF) medium supplemented with insulin, transferrin, ethanolamine, selenium, and endothelial cell growth supplement, as fast as in 10% FCS-RDF medium. According to transfer blotting analysis, the H15F2 MoAb reacted with a 40 000 dalton antigen in MCF-7 cells.
4295812|Dispersed adult rat pancreatic islet cells were incubated with Cytodex-3 microcarrier beads for 72 h, during which time single cells adhered firmly to bead surfaces. Electron microscopy revealed well-preserved ultrastructure of attached A, B, and D cells. Perifusion of these cultures showed stable basal insulin release, brisk, biphasic insulin responses to 30-min glucose stimulation, and consistent, monophasic spikes of insulin release in response to repeated, brief pulses of glucose. These results indicate that adult rat islet cells attach to microcarriers and remain viable in culture. This preparation offers advantages for studies of hormone secretory dynamics of differentiated single islet cells, free from cell-to-cell interactions.
4296443|When attached Y79 retinoblastoma cells are exposed to different culture conditions they seem to differentiate along distinct pathways. These changes are associated with characteristic alterations in shape. Shape change in a complex culture is difficult to quantify by visual observation. Therefore, we have been developing a method, using a computerized image analysis system, for describing the overall morphology of cultured cells. Images from the microscope are digitized and presented on a monitor that has a high resolution touch screen attached. Individual cells are then traced, and the perimeter, area, and
4296503| We have introduced hsp-cat plasmid DNA into Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) cells by transfection with purified DNA (1 to 48 g/ml) mixed with the polycation polybrene (100 g/ml) in serum-free Grace's medium. The hsp-cat construct contains a gene coding for the bacterial enzyme chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT), whose expression is controlled by a promoter derived from a Drosophila heat shock protein (hsp) gene. Expression of CAT activity in transfected Spodoptera cells was induced by a 2-h heat shock at 43 C. The temperature of the heat shock was based on conditions that maximized the expression of endogenous heat shock protein genes in these cells. CAT activity was maximal in cells that were exposed to the heat shock 2 d after transfection; by 4 d, activity was diminished, and little activity was detectable after 6 d. Transfection frequencies, which varied with DNA concentration and ranged as high as 6000 per million cells, were determined using a histochemical staining procedure. 
4296247|P. falciparum, an intraerythrocytic parasite, obtains nourishment primarily through phagocytosis of the host cytosol but also through the incorporation of extracellular small molecules which enter through the parasitized red cell's membrane via pores. Normal mature erythrocytes are incapable of endocytosis. Several lines of evidence suggest that extracellular large molecules may be taken up when the mature red cell is parasitized by P. falciparum, but direct evidence has been lacking. We now report the use of ferritin, an electron dense protein, to demonstrate endocytosis in P. falciparum infected red cells. Parasitized red cells incubated with ferritin internalize that macromolecule as demonstrated by electron microscopy. While normal red cells incubated with ferritin took up none of the tracer molecule, parasitized red cells internalized substantial amounts. In addition both ferritin and apoferritin inhibited the growth of P. falciparum in a dose dependent fashion, again indicating endocytosis of a macromolecule. These data indicate that P. falciparum can somehow stimulate the mature erythrocyte to engage in endocytosis. We also note that both infected and non-infected red cells in a culture in which P. falciparum is growing become abnormally sticky for ferritin. Moreover, parasitized red cells bind
20171530| Different organotypical culture methods are used to test the direct effects of serotonin and ketanserin, a S, , and H receptor antagonist in vascular tissue, on fibroblasts and epidermal cells of embryonic chick skin in vitro. From light microscopic and electron microscopic analyses, we learn that serotonin enhances keratinization and differentiation, whereas ketanserin reduces differentiation in comparison to the control cultures. Incorporation data of fragments cultured with [H]thymidine show that ketanserin, within a dose range from 0.05 to 5 g/ml, stimulates proliferation. Serotonin at a concentration of 10 g/ml slightly slows down proliferation, whereas lower doses of 0.1 and 1 g/ml result in tritium activities that do not differ from control cultures. 
4296203| We established for human fetal liver cells (cultured for 2 wk) in a hormonally defined medium, optimal conditions for attachment, multiplication, and preservation of epithelial morphology as well as production and secretion of serum proteins characteristic of fetal (1-fetoprotein, AFP) and adult (albumin and hemopexin) life. Conditions were considered optimal when cell number, albumin, and hemopexin levels were maintained throughout the 2-wk culture period. However, the decrease in AFP concentration, which occurred after a few days of culture, could not be reversed. The culture system developed is a suitable model for studying regulatory mechanisms governing structure and function during differentiation and may prove useful for testing the effect of toxic agents during fetal development of the human liver. 
4296448|Liver connective tissue cells have been characterized as perisinusoidal myofibroblasts and hepatic lipocytes (Ito cells, fat-storing cells). A concept of a single mesenchymal cell population that may be modulated between these two phenotypes has been postulated. We have previously established a continuous murine cell line, GRX, obtained from fibrotic granulomatous lesions induced by schistosomal infection in mouse liver. This cell line is considered to represent liver myofibroblasts. In the present study we have induced the conversion of these cells into lipocyte (fat storing) phenotype by treatment with insulin and indomethacin. We have quantified the lipid synthesis and the increase of activity of involved enzymes during the induction of the fat-storing phenotype and described modifications of cell organization along this modulation of cell functions.
20171464| NEL-M1 human melanoma cells have been established to grow in Ham's F12 medium in the absence of serum, hormones, and exogenous growth factors. Conditioned medium from NEL-M1 cultures stimulates growth of these same cells whereas glucocorticoids retard growth in the presence and absence of conditioned medium. Because recent reports indicate that glucocorticoids inhibit the synthesis of growth factors from a variety of cell types, we hypothesized that glucocorticoids may be inhibiting growth of NEL-M1 cells by either suppressing the synthesis of the autocrine growth factor or regulating other secretory proteins that may inhibit the activity of the autocrine growth factor. Initial studies were done to clearly show that NEL-M1 cells were growth inhibited, both in vivo and in vitro, when exposed to the synthetic glucocorticoid, triamcinolone acetonide (TA). When NEL-M1 cells were injected into nude mice and treated with TA (100 g per mouse per week) a 67% reduction in tumor mass was observed compared to the control group over a 5-wk growth period. Additional studies show that in a serum-free defined medium TA (100 nM) inhibited growth of NEL-M1 cells by 56% after 6 d in culture. At this same time TA was shown to affect the expression of several proteins secreted from these cells. TA treatment resulted in the appearance of a 125 000 molecular weight protein, suppression of the synthesis-secretion of three proteins (37 000, 57 000, and 76 000 molecular weight) and enhanced expression of a 60 000-molecular weight protein. However when NEL-M1 cells were cultured in conditioned medium from TA-treated cells, a stimulation in both [H]thymidine incorporation into DNA and cell proliferation was observed. When the conditioned medium was fractionated by Amicon ultrafiltration, the growth stimulatory activity was found in the &lt;10 000 molecular weight fraction. These results demonstrate that glucocorticoids, as a single agent, inhibit the growth of NEL-M1 human melanoma cells. However, this growth inhibition by glucocorticoids may not be through the regulation of the synthesis-secretion of the autocrine growth factor. Furthermore, the data suggest that the glucocorticoid-sensitive secretory proteins may not be directly involved in the in vitro regulation of NEL-M1 cellular growth. 
4296488|Normal human endometrial cells were grown on an extracellular matrix containing type IV collagen, laminin, heparan sulfate proteoglycan, and entactin (Matrigel). On the extracellular matrix, dispersed endometrial cells remained rounded, and aggregated to form mounds of cells, which continued to grow in this arrangement. At 10 d, light microscopy demonstrated that these mounds were comprised of an eosinophilic substance, containing individual fusiform stromal cells. About 50% of the mounds were covered with a single layer of polarized cuboidal to columnar cells with basal nuclei, whereas 60% contained columnar cells forming glandular structures with open lumina. These polarized cuboidal and columnar cells were epithelial, based on their positive staining for cytokeratins and the possession of microvilli, tonofilaments, abundant glycogen, ribosomes, and primitive junctional complexes. Kreyberg's stain showed the presence of mucin within the lumina of the glands, indicating that they were functional. Thus, human endometrial cells grown on an extracellular matrix form a simple cuboidal to columnar epithelium, a stromal component, and glandular structures, thereby mimicking the in vivo morphology of the endometrium.
4296767|To identify polypeptide growth factors for human teratocarcinoma cells, we studied the malignant ovarian teratoma-derived cell line, PA-1, that grew autonomously in serum-free medium. Medium conditioned by undifferentiated PA-1 cells strongly stimulated proliferation of the mouse mammary tumor cell line, GR 2H6, which is responsive to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulinlike growth factor-I (IGF-I). After ammonium sulfate precipitation, PA-1 conditioned medium was analyzed by anion exchange chromatography and bioassay of elution fractions on GR 2H6 cells that were grown in medium deficient in either EGF or insulin. The results demonstrated that PA-1 CM contained factors that can substitute for EGF and IGF-I in stimulating growth of GR 2H6 cells. Western blots of peak mitogenic fractions revealed low molecular weight polypeptides that were immunoreactive with either anti-EGF or anti-IGF-I antibodies. Indirect immunofluorescence staining of PA-1 cells with monoclonal antibodies localized receptors for each growth factor, and binding of human EGF and IGF-I to these cells was quantified by radioreceptor assays. Secretion of factors closely related to EGF and IGF-I by PA-1 cells under serum-free conditions may provide a novel model system to study molecular mechanisms of autocrine growth stimulation in teratocarcinomas.
4296655|Iron absorption by intestinal epithelial cells, passage onto plasmatic apotransferrin, and regulation of the process remain largely misunderstood. To investigate this problem, we have set up an in vitro model, consisting in CaCo2 cells (a human colon adenocarcinoma line, which upon cultivation displays numerous differentiation criteria of small intestine epithelial cells). Cells are cultivated in a serum-free medium, containing
4296504|Populations of normal and tumorigenic epithelial cells were plated in normal (serum supplemented) and a minimal defined medium. The ability of cells to grow in the minimal defined medium vs. the normal medium was related to their tumorigenic ability. All of the clones that were capable of growth in the minimal defined medium demonstrated tumorigenic ability. None of the normal clones survived in the minimal defined medium. As expected, some of the tumorigenic clones could not grow in the minimal medium. However, at no time did a clone that grew in the minimal defined medium fail to demonstrate tumorigenic ability. This validated that this system can be an animal-free means for selecting tumorigenic epithelial cells out of a mixed population.
4296703|The mesothelial cells obtained from human omental adipose tissue showed a typical cobblestone monolayer and reacted strongly with keratin, but did not have Von Willebrand factor. Ultrastructurally these cells revealed the existence of desmosome-like cell junctions as well as intracellular canaliculi, tubular structures surrounded by microvilli, and tonofilament-like filaments. The mesothelial cells grew much faster in the medium containing epidermal growth factor, actively took up acetylated-low density lipoprotein into their cytoplasm, and released angiotensin-converting enzyme. They also released urokinase-type plasminogen activator, but only half as much as do human umbilical vein endothelial cells; release of tissue-type plasminogen activator was not observed. Inasmuch as the mesothelial cells also released plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, as do human umbilical vein endothelial cells, we could not detect u-PA activity in culture medium. u-PA may play a role in the protection against adhesion among visceral organs. These observations indicate that cultured human mesothelial cells have characteristics closely related to those found in human endothelial cells.
4296906|The establishment of a new glioma cell line, DBTRG-05MG, in a modified RPMI 1640 medium is described. The cells were derived from an adult female with glioblastoma multiforme who had been treated with local brain irradiation and multidrug chemotherapy; the tumor showed substantial change in histologie appearance compared to the original biopsy 13 mo. previously. The line has been successfully cryopreserved and passaged up to 20 times. The karyotype of the cells demonstrated it as a hypotetraploid line; the DNA index of 1.9 confirmed the karyotype analyses. By immunoeytochemical analysis, the cell line reacted with polyclonal antibodies to vimentin, S100, and neuron specific enolase, reflecting its primitive neuroectodermal character. Positive immunostaining for epidermal growth factor receptor correlated with the excess of chromosome 7 seen in the karyotype. The cell line reacted negatively to antibodies against platelet-derived growth factor and its receptor, neuronal cell adhesion molecule, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. By flow cytometry, the cells were major histocompatibility class I antigen positive and class II antigen negative. Growth kinetic studies demon-strated an approximate population doubling time of 34 to 41 h and a colony forming efficiency of 71.4%. Western blot analysis showed the presence of low levels of normal-sized retinoblastoma protein. When compared to the patient's lymphocyte DNA, no loss of heterozygosity of the p53 tumor suppressor gene was observed in the DBTRG-05MG cell line DNA.
4296913| We investigated the ability of the TALL-103/2 and TALL-104 leukemic cell lines to produce lymphokines in response to activation signals, such as tumor cells and anti-CD3 (OKT3) or -CD2 (B67.1) monoclonal antibodies (mAb) or both. Both cell lines were found to produce high levels of interferon (IFN)-7, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-a, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). The latter lymphokine is induced by lysable tumor cells and by immobilized OKT3 and B67.1 mAb only in the presence of interleukin (IL-2). IFN- and TNF- are induced upon CD3 but not CD2 stimulation, both in the presence and absence of IL-2. Interestingly, the B67.1 mAb amplifies the OKT3-induced responses by 2-to 10-fold, bringing the IFN- and TNF- levels of production up to 200 U/ml. Thus, simultaneous triggering of the CD2 and CD3 signaling pathways results in a very efficient lymphokine release. Of all the tumor cell lines tested as inducers, only K562 cells are able to stimulate the production of  and TNF- in TALL-103/2 and TALL-104 cells, especially upon culture in IL-2. Lymphokine mRNA expression after stimulation with mAb or K562 cells peaks at 2 h in both cell lines. No messages are detectable in TALL-103/2 cells at 8 h, whereas in TALL-104 cells, IFN- and GM-CSF transcripts are still present at 8 and 20 h, respectively. The inducible and highly regulatable expression of lymphokine release by these cell lines provides a unique model for studying mechanisms of lymphokine induction by different biological agents. 
4296519|Peach leaf segments, immature embryos, and long-term embryogenic calli have been transformed in vitro with the engineered Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain A281 containing pGA472. All three tissue sources proliferated callus which grew on a medium containing 100-200 mg/l kanamycin or 10-20 mg/l G-418 as selective agents. These calli were shown to produce neomycin phosphotransferase. The results of Southern analyses were consistent with the incorporation of foreign DNA into the genome of leaf, embryo and embryogenic peach callus.
4295814|Hepatocytes were prepared by an in situ or biopsy perfusion of liver with collagenase. Hepatocytes from adult liver were cultured without serum on collagen-coated dishes in culture medium supplemented with hormones. Stable monolayers were established within 24 h and were maintained for up to 10 d. The hormone supplement maintained cytochrome P-450, a critical component of mixed function oxygenase responsible for activation of many procarcinogens. The addition of serum and phenobarbital to the cultures also maintained higher levels of mixed function oxygenase activity. Viable cultures were prepared from mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, dogs, monkeys, and humans. Metabolism studies revealed the rate of metabolism and the extent of covalent binding to macromolecules, including DNA. Measures of cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in vitro provide an indication of hepatonecrotic and hepatocarcinogenic potency in vivo. Comparative metabolism, cytotoxicity, and genotoxicity studies provide a means of facilitating the extrapolation of toxicity data from laboratory animals to humans.
4295877|In primary, short-term cultures derived from first and third trimester placentae, 60 to 90 and 70 to 95%, respectively, of the total cell population positively stain for cytokeratin intermediate filaments, typical of epithelial, i.e. trophoblastic cells. The rest of the cells express only vimentin intermediate filaments and thus are of mesenchymal origin. Only the cytokeratin-positive cells express human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), whereas both the epithelial and the mesenchymal cells stain positively for pregnancy-specific beta-1-glycoprtein (SP
20171384|During studies on serum-free clonal growth of rat mammary tumor line 64-24, we observed that liposome B causes a major increase in colony-forming efficiency. This phenomenon was studied with a short-term assay based on phase contrast microscopic observation of the effects of liposome B on recently plated, serum-depleted cells. In the serum-free medium, colony forming efficiency is not determined primarily by viability (measured by dye exclusion) or cell attachment. Instead, most of the effect is determined by the extent of degeneration that occurs during cell elongation and the first division. Factors that prevent degeneration, such as liposome B, restore colony forming efficiency. Prolactin alone stimulates cell elongation but does not prevent degeneration. However, the combination of prolactin and liposome B increases colony formation to levels observed in the presence of serum.
20171477| Conditions for optimum incorporation of radioactive amino acids into proteins of cultured postimplantation mouse embryos were investigated under the aspect of using these proteins for two-dimensional electrophoretic separations followed by fluorography. The aim was to obtain highly radioactive proteins under conditions as physiological as possible. Embryos at Days 10, 11, and 12 of gestation were prepared in different ways and incubated for 4 h in Tyrode's solution containing [H]amino acids (mixture) at a concentration of 27 Ci/ml medium. The preparations were: a) yolk sac opened, placenta and blood circulation intact; b) yolk sac and amnion opened, placenta and blood circulation intact (Day 10 embryos only); c) placenta, yolk sac, and amnion removed (embryo "naked"); d) naked embryos cut randomly into pieces (Day 10 embryos only). After incubation whole embryos or certain parts (tail, liver, rest body) were investigated by determining the radioactivity taken up by the protein. The results are given in dpm per mg protein per embryo. Radioactivity of proteins was about 3 times higher in naked embryos than in embryos left in their yolk sacs. This was true for all three stages investigated. However, the degree of radioactivity in the various parts of naked embryos differed by a factor of 15, whereas radioactivity was evenly distributed in embryos incubated in their yolk sacs. Therefore, embryos prepared according to the first method (see above) fulfilled the conditions required at the best. 
4296160|The rates at which growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (PRL) are spontaneously secreted from a rat pituitary tumor cell line (
4296691|Metamorphic and reproductive events in vertebrates and invertebrates are under endocrine control and are often correlated with developmental, behavioral, or reproductive changes in the parasites living in or on these hosts. This paper reviews selected examples of a) host hormone mediated influences on endoparasites in vivo, b) host hormone effects in vitro on protozoan, helminth, and insect endoparasites, and c) identifies possible relationships in hormone effects across parasite taxa. The significance of studies on endoparasites in vitro in relation to the impact of host hormones, antihelminthic, and prophylactic drugs on parasite growth and proliferation will also be addressed. A review of the literature indicates only limited studies have been done in vitro in an attempt to elucidate the bases of reported host hormone influences on endoparasites in vivo. Steroid hormones of hosts seem to stimulate growth, molting or encystment or both of helminth, insect, and protozoan parasites. Vertebrate steroids such as estrogen, testosterone, and progesterone had primarily reproduction- or growth-promoting effects or both on protozoan and nematode parasites. Insect ecdysteroids such as ecdysone, 20-hydroxyecdysone, and makisterone were the most widely studied steroids in vitro and induced growth or molting or both of cestode, nematode, and insect parasite larvae. Although juvenile hormone (JH III) stimulated growth in the protozoan and nematode parasites tested, the analogue methoprene and JH precursors, farnesal, farnesol, and farnesol methyl ether had various effects. Biogenic amines also varied in their effects on the nematode parasites tested, while the peptide hormone, insulin, stimulated growth in the protozoans tested. The evidence for in vitro effects of host hormones on their natural endoparasites is patchy at best. Additional studies are needed to identify the biochemical bases for the numerous host hormone mediated effects on parasites.
4296449|The following studies were undertaken to develop a cultured uterine myocyte model which would allow further clarification of the adrenergic signal transduction mechanisms utilized by these myocytes. After mechanical removal of the endometrium, rabbit uterine myocytes were isolated by an overnight enzymatic disaggregation using collagenase and DNase I. The isolated myocytes were maintained in culture in
4295737|Human hepatoma cells grow at high cell density in the absence of exogenous growth factors. At low cell density, two different hepatoma cell lines required a novel growth factor from brain tissue. A factor with similar physico-chemical properties in the concentrated medium from high density cultures completely substituted for the brain extract. The autogenous secretion of a novel liver cell growth factor that is concentrated in brain tissue may underlie in part the unregulated growth of hepatomas.
20171543|A cell line (ULF-23HU) from the fin of the central mudminnow (Umbra limi) was characterized and tested for its suitability to assess cytogenetic damages induced by chemicals in fish. Cells of this line exhibit a fibroblastlike appearance and grew optimal at 25 C in TC-199 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum, but slower growth continued down to 4 C, where they could be stored for prolonged periods. Seeding efficiency of ULF-23HU cells on the plastic substratum was approximately 85% in the above culture medium at 25 C. They had a 32-h cell cycle time taken up by a 20-h S period as determined by the autoradiographic analysis of the fraction of labeled mitosis. Cultures showed relatively high mitotic index (0.84 to 2.35%) during exponential growth phase lasting about 7 d. Karyological analysis of the cells at the different subculture passages revealed constant chromosome modal number of 23 consisting of metacentric or submetacentric chromosomes, which were primarily similar to those of in vivo cells, with one additional chromosome. The spontaneous sister chromatid exchange rate was 5.3 per metaphase. When ULF-23HU cells were exposed to N-nitroso-N-methylurea, a clastogen in the mammalian cells, dose-dependent increases both in sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were clearly detected. These results on the growth kinetics and cytogenetic characteristics offered the high possibility of the use of this cell line as a suitable in vitro model for clastogenicity studies in fish.
4296177|A high density, purified, nontoxic solvent, heptacosafluorotributylamine (FC43), was successfully used as a culture surface for growing several normal and oncogene-transformed cell lines under anchorage-independent conditions. Normal rat kidney (NRK) fibroblasts and the normal mammary epithelial cell lines NMuMG and Al, clone N4, of murine and human origin, respectively, failed to grow at a FC43 growth medium interphase or in soft agar in the absence of transforming growth factor alpha (
4295776|In order to define humoral growth factors which may regulate mammalian renal development, the growth requirements of fetal metanephric organogenesis were studied in serum-free murine organ culture. Metanephric growth, determined by cell proliferation and protein content, and metanephric differentiation, determined morphometrically as epithelial glomerular formation, were compared and contrasted following 144 hours of organ culture incubation in basal medium, basal medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, and basal medium supplemented with various combinations of growth factors. The basal medium was composed of equal volumes of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Ham's F-12 medium. Five humoral growth factors were studied in the following concentrations: selenium,
20171567| Cultured McA-RH7777 rat hepatoma cells actively synthesize and secrete plasma lipoproteins. However, synthesis of [C]triglyceride declines monotonically throughout the early growth period and remains low in postconfluent cultures; and net secretion of [C]triglyceride is 10-fold more efficient in logarithmically growing cultures than in postconfluent cultures. Secretion of apolipoproteins associated with very low density and low density lipoproteins is selectively reduced in postconfluent cultures. The temporal reductions in [C]triglyceride production are related more strongly to increasing cell concentration (cells/cm medium) than to increasing cell density (cells/cm growth surface). We have allowed cells to grow either retained within small circular corrals or unrestricted in culture dishes. When seeded at equal density (10 cells/cm) but at one-fifth the cell concentration, corralled cells synthesize twice as much [C]triglyceride per cell after 2 and 4 d, and are 10 times as efficient in [C]triglyceride secretion by 6 d of growth, as noncorralled cells. When seeded at equal cell concentration (10 cells/dish) but at 5 times the cell density, corralled cells are only 20% less efficient at [C]triglyceride synthesis and secretion than noncorralled cells. Conditioned medium depresses synthesis and secretion efficiency of [C]triglyceride. Orotic acid exposure also inhibits synthesis of [C]triglyceride and secretion of certain [S]apolipoproteins in early cultures, but it has no significant effect on late cultures. We conclude that diffusion-mediated events are important regulators of triglyceride and apolipoprotein production in growing rat hepatoma cells, but that events associated with formation of cell-to-cell contacts play a minor role in regulation of plasma lipoprotein biogenesis. 
4295996|A procedure is described which allows primary cultures of rat keratinocytes grown at the liquid-air interface to develop and maintain multilayered strata and to produce highly keratinized sheets morphologically similar to those seen in epidermis in situ. Various substrata were tested and compared as to their ability to support growth and stratification of keratinocytes. It was found that when cultured on plastic surfaces, keratinocytes adhered tightly to the substratum and produced a confluent monolayer that later stratified to two to three layers. Cells plated on Vitrogen 100 collagen failed to reach confluence and, in addition, exhibited the "clustering" phenomenon and deterioration of collagen after 3 to 4 d of growth. Significantly better attachment and spreading were observed for cells grown on rat-tail collagen as compared with plastic and Vitrogen 100 collagen. The best results, including maximal and uniform stratification, were seen in cells grown on a mixture of rat-tail and Vitrogen 100 collagens. The system that was developed in the present study offers a model for use in the study of epidermal toxicity from topically applied environmental chemicals.
4295831|Peripheral blood samples from Sprague-Dawley rats gave successful lymphocyte growth in GIBCO: 1A, RPMI 1640, and Eagle's minimum essential medium (MEM) culture media. Various growth conditions, cytokinetics, and sister chromatic exchange (SCE) induction were studied using reconstituted GIBCO 1A only. Neither methoxyflurane anesthesia of the rats before sampling nor washing of the cells with phosphate buffered saline affected the mitotic index. Cultures treated with [
4295884|Several studies have shown the importance of different hormones in the regulation of mammary tissue growth. The use of organ culture techniques has shown tremendous value for the knowledge of cell proliferation in human breast tissue. Therefore, the purpose of these studies was to analyze the length of the cell cycle, DNA-labeling index, mitotic index, and growth fraction under the effects of insulin, hydrocortisone, and
20171514|For serum-free primary culture of adult rat hepatocytes, a synthetic medium DM-160 and rat-tail collagen were selected for the basal medium and for the culture substratum, respectively. Barbiturates, such as phenobarbital and 1-ethyl-5-isobutylbarbiturate, efficiently supported survival of hepatocytes and maintained their morphologic features at lower concentrations under the serum-free conditions than under the serum-supplemented conditions. However, the hepatocyte survival rates under the serum-free conditions were lower than those under the serum-supplemented conditions in the presence or absence of barbiturates. Supplementation of the basal medium with a combination of five groups of factors (5Fs), such as eight amino acids (Ala, Arg, Gly, Ile, Met, Phe, Pro, and Trp), two unsaturated fatty acids (linoleate and oleate), a protease inhibitor (aprotinin), three vitamins (A, C, and E), and five trace elements (Mn, Fe, Cu, Zn, and Se), improved the hepatocyte survival under the serum-free conditions in the presence or absence of barbiturates. In other words, the serum could be completely substituted by the 5Fs. Hepatocyte cultures maintained in the 5Fs-supplemented basal medium showed excellent induction of tyrosine aminotransferase activity in response to dexamethasone in the presence or absence of barbiturates. The efficiency of the 5Fs-supplemented basal medium for maintaining hepatocytes was not inferior to those of other media in common use with hepatocytes, such as Williams' medium E and Waymouth's medium MB-752/1. In conclusion, maintenance of functional hepatocytes in serum-free primary culture could be improved by use of the new medium preparation (the 5Fs-supplemented DM-160) in the presence of barbiturates.
4295741| The feasibility of using plant cell culture to measure toxicity was determined by investigating the toxicological effects of three chemical compounds, allyl alcohol, propargylglycine, and cadmium chloride, on cell cultures of Catharanthus roseus G. Don (Madagascar periwinkle). Suspension cultures of C. roseus were maintained in modified B5 medium and transferred every 5 d. Five-day-old cell cultures were exposed to various concentrations (10,3,1,0.3,0.1,0.03,0.01,0.003,0.001,0.0003,0.0001, 0.00003, and 0.0 mM) of the toxicants in both acute and chronic toxicity tests. In the acute test, cells were exposed to the toxicant for 24 h, washed three times with sterile medium, and plated in petri plates with an equal volume of 1.4% agar medium. Cells in the chronic test were plated with an equal volume of 1.4% agar medium containing various concentrations of the toxicant. Cells were incubated 28 d at 30 C in the dark. The colonies were counted and the results plotted as percent survival versus toxicant concentration. The results indicate, at the concentrations tested, that C. roseus assay may be feasible in that it fulfills the criteria for a practical assay (e.g., rapid, simple, quantifiable, and reproducible). 
4296844| We investigated the heterogeneity of cells in terms of androgen responsiveness within a single tumor mass of Shionogi carcinoma SC-115 showing androgen-dependent growth. After cloning of the tumor by the limiting dilution method in the presence of androgen, we isolated 40 clones at random. Twenty-two clones required androgen for growth (androgen-dependent phenotype), 16 did not (androgen-independent phenotype), and the remaining two clones showed growth inhibition when androgen was added (androgen-suppressed phenotype). In addition, 22 androgen-dependent clones showed heterogeneity in growth factor sensitivity in the absence of androgen. All clones were sensitive to both acidic and basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF), 7 of 22 clones were sensitive to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-, and 2 of 22 clones were sensitive to TGF-. This preexisting heterogeneity may be partly responsible for the growth of androgen-dependent tumor under hormone-deprived circumstances. Three typical clones, SC2G, SC1G, and SC4A, were selected from androgen-dependent, -independent, and -suppressed phenotypic groups, respectively. These clones, as well as original solid tumors, were found to produce heparin-binding growth factors of heterogeneous elution positions. The molecular nature of these growth factors is not yet known. Neither anti-basic FGF antibody nor anti-EGF antibody inhibited the cell growth when added in cell culture, suggesting the factors were distinct from basic-FGF and EGF. 
4296293|Construction details are described for a minichamber device that maintains a localized atmosphere of carbon dioxide in air over the stage of an inverted microscope. This device is easily constructed from Plexiglas and its specifications can be adjusted to fit virtually any inverted microscope. A flow of warm, humidified carbon dioxide in air gas mixture can be directed over a petri dish or unsealed culture flask to maintain the pH of $bicarbonate-CO_2$ buffered media. By this means, prolonged culture of cells directly on the microscope stage is made possible without occurrence of detrimental pH changes. If the microscope is fitted with an environmental control chamber to maintain temperature, cells can be maintained on the microscope stage for days, permitting frequent observation of cell growth and activity. Alternatively, continuous cine or video recordings can be made. For example, using this device, hamster and rhesus monkey embryos have been cultured for 2 to 5 d on an inverted microscope while continuous time-lapse recordings were made of cell division and differentiation and activity of cellular organelles.
4295763| Epithelial cells from mouse seminal vesicles were enzymatically dissociated, enriched by gradient centrifugation, and maintained in collagen gel cultures with defined (serum-free) media. The epithelial origin of the cells was determined morphologically, immunocytochemically, and biochemically. Cells formed three-dimensional colonies with a lumen in collagen gels. Cell number was increased eight-fold within a 8 to 12-d culture period in a medium supplemented with epidermal growth factor (EGF) (10 ng/ml), insulin (10 g/ml), transferrin (10 g/ml), cholera toxin (10 ng/ml), and hydrocortisone (0.1 g/ml). The cells required EGF and insulin; the growth-promoting effects of these two peptide hormones were optimized by transferrin, cholera toxin, and hydrocortisone. Fetal bovine serum did not support growth; rather, it suppressed the stimulated growth observed in serum-free media. A time-course study revealed that a lag period preceded rapid growth. The collagen gel, serum-free culture provides a powerful tool to study the effects of hormones on proliferation and differentiation of androgen sensitive cells. 
20171406|Levels of seven messenger RNA species were compared in human umbilical vein endothelial cells of different lineage and time in culture. Specifically, cells obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) and subcultured were compared to early passage cells from cultures produced in our laboratory. Messenger RNA for tissue plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, urokinase, and thrombomodulin were expressed at higher levels in the ATCC cells. Thrombospondin, von Willebrand's Factor, and protein S messenger RNA were expressed at higher levels in the cells that we isolated. In addition, in the ATCC cells a shift in the proportion of plasminogen activator inhibitor messenger RNA from the 3.4 to the 2.4 kilobase species was found. We conclude that specific messenger RNA levels can vary considerably between cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells. The large variation in mRNA levels which we describe has important implications for experiments involving gene expression in cultured endothelium.
20171366| A method for efficiently infecting primary myogenic cultures with a temperature-sensitive variant of the Prague strain of Rous sarcoma virus (RSV, tsLA24) to obtain a high yield of transformed myogenic cells is reported. It incorporates the use of an amorphous polymer of polycations, Polybrene, to enhance the absorption of the virus by the muscle cells. In addition, other steps which were shown to be important were a) to allow cell attachment before infection, b) to infect at 35 C in low protein medium, c) to use a density of 1 to 1.5  10 cells/60-mm dish, d) gentle agitation during infection, and e) to minimize the number of passages after infection. The use of the temperature-sensitive virus provided a means of confirming the presence of myogenic cells in transformed cultures. When infected cells were maintained at 35 C (the permissive temperature for virus activity) they exhibited the characteristics of transformed cells. These characteristics included altered cell morphology, the absence of contact-inhibited growth, growth in semisolid medium, and expression of the src oncogene. In contrast, when infected cells were maintained at 41 C (the nonpermissive temperature for virus activity) they do not express src and showed normal myogenic development and ultimately formed myotubes. 
4296131|
               
4295759|Hamster tracheal explants have been used to assay for mucosecretory activity in media taken from cultures of fibroblasts isolated from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Cystic fibrosis and normal sera were first used to establish optimal conditions for mucus release in the hamster tracheal ring assay. Unless protein levels were maintained at 5% serum concentration or greater there was loss of cilia, nonspecific mucus accumulation, and extensive epithelial damage to the luminal surface. Likewise, it was shown that exposure of the explants to unconcentrated conditioned media from CF (GM 770, 768, 1348, 142) or normal (GM 3349, 38) cultured fibroblasts for 1, 6, or 12 h resulted in the same type of damage and this was due to low protein levels. When the protein concentration of the conditioned media was increased with fetal bovine serum, the morphological integrity of the explants was maintained, demonstrating that there was no apparent difference between CF and normal fibroblast-secreted proteins in ability to induce mucus release. The ciliary inhibitory capacity of CF serum-derived or fibroblast-derived factor had been reported to require IgG for activity. However, addition of IgG to high molecular weight (VoP10) or low molecular weight (VeP10) secreted proteins had no apparent effect on stimulating secretion. In conclusion, it is possible that CF fibroblasts do not secrete a protein that has the mucostimulatory effect and thus these cells may not be suitable for studying the CF-related activity.
4296052| The life span and growth from clonal density of bovine adrenocortical cell cultures were studied in serum-supplemented medium and a serum-free defined medium, which supported sustained cell proliferation and steroid production. The total culture life span was 79 population doublings in serum-supplemented medium with fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and 36 population doublings in the defined medium without serum. Older passage cell cultures grown in the defined medium progressively lost the ability to produce 11- and 21-hydroxylated steroids, which was observed previously for cultures in serum-supplemented medium, and also had a decline of 17-hydroxylated steroid production. The cloning efficiency in the defined medium was 12.2% as compared to 24% in serum-supplemented medium with FGF. Five isolated clonal cell lines grown in the defined medium were characterized for steroid function in response to steroidogenic agents. All five clonal cell lines had stimulated steroid production with 8-bromo-cAMP, but only four of the clonal lines were stimulated also by adrenocorticotropin. None of the clonal cell lines produced 11-, 21- or 17-hydroxylated steroids in response to treatment with either steroidogenic agent, results that were similar to data obtained from older mass cultures. The apparent deficiency of the defined medium as compared to serum-supplemented medium for maximum support of the culture life span and cloning efficiency may be useful in studies of cellular aging and its relation to differentiated function for this cell culture system. 
4296958| Primary cultures of circulatory blood cells from the colonial tunicate Botryllus schlosseri were cultivated in 96-well plates for up to 3 mo. in a medium based on Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium, supplemented with salts to the botryllid ascidian hemolymph osmolarity, HEPES buffer, L-glutamin, fetal bovine serum, and antibiotics. Intercellular bridges between granular pigment cells were established within 24 h. The viability of these cells decreased slowly, and most died within 1 mo. without any sign of cell proliferation. Other cell types remained in an arrested state and were subjected to a weekly medium exchange. Spontaneous cell proliferation was randomly recorded in 6 to 10% of the wells from 2 wk to 1 mo. This proliferation was followed by the formation of masses of cell clumps, from which uniform hemocytes (5 m, lymphocytelike cells) migrated peripherally. Stress conditions, which included longer intervals between medium exchanges and partial medium replacement, increased the probability of cell proliferation. From each proliferating primary culture, we successfully performed up to 10 plating cycles over a period of 15 wk, during which the cells differentiate in size but are uniformly structured. This produced the first Botryllus lymphocytelike cell line. From this stage, cell numbers remained constant for up to 6 mo. without increase in cell number. Several mitogenic factors were employed on primary cultures. Botryllus and sea cucumber hemolymphs and mixed interleukins were found to augment significantly proliferation of at least one specific cell size, whereas cells were not markedly responsive to lectins (Concavalin A, wheat germ agglutinin, Ulex europaeus agglutinin), insulin, and retinoic acid. The results are discussed with respect to future efforts in the development of tunicate blood cell cultures. 
4295976|Epithelium from normal human endometrium was cultured as morphologically stable vesicular structures in a defined, hormone-supplemented PFMR-4 medium. The structures consisted of a single layer of polarized epithelial cells with the apical surface facing the external culture medium, and the basal surface resting on a well-defined basal lamina adjacent to the internal lumen. Vesicles were shown to (a) retain their viability for up to 3 mo. in culture, (b) to actively synthesize DNA after being cultured for over a month in a defined medium, and (c) to respond to steroid hormones. When embedded within a collagen gel, the vesicles reversed their epithelial polarity and formed branching, pseudoglandular structures. It was concluded that the three-dimensional shape of the epithelial vesicles had a critical role to play in their morphological stability, nutrient requirement, and hormone sensitivity.
4296294|Exposure of squamous carcinoma cell (SCC) lines, exhibiting high levels of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors, to EGF for 6 d caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. This EGF-induced inhibition of cell proliferation occurred under both low (0.06 mM) and normal (1.6 mM) Ca<sup>2+</sup> concentrations. Furthermore, the extent of EGF-induced inhibition of cell proliferation seemed to be independent of the number of EGF-receptors. This conclusion is based on the notion that the various SCC lines exhibited an increasing number of EGF receptors accompanied by a decreasing ability to differentiate, whereas no relationship was observed with the EGF-induced inhibition of cell proliferation in these cell lines. Retinoids caused also a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. The effects of EGF and retinoids were additive, indicating that different regulatory mechanisms are involved. On the other hand, hydrocortisone caused a stimulation of SCC-proliferation, also independent of EGF. In contrast to SCC cells, EGF did not affect significantly the rate of proliferation of normal keratinocytes. However, the simultaneous addition of EGF and hydrocortisone resulted in a significant increase in the rate of keratinocyte proliferation only in cells grown under normal calcium conditions. Differentiation capacity of normal keratinocytes and SCC lines was not affected by EGF. Furthermore, the retinoid-induced decrease and hydrocortisone-induced increase of competence of cells to form cornified envelopes was not affected by EGF. These observations suggest that the action of retinoids and hydrocortisone on both cell proliferation and cell differentiation occurs independently of EGF receptors.
4296530|We have previously demonstrated trophic effects of gastrin on mouse colon cancer (MC-26) cells, in vivo, and demonstrated the presence of gastrin receptors (GR) on these cells. The cellular and intracellular mechanism by which gastrin expresses trophic effects on colon cancer cells is, however, as yet unknown. For us to start investigating the possible mechanisms involved, it was important that we first develop an in vitro model, in v/hich gastrin expresses its trophic effects directly on the MC-26 cells. The growth-promoting effects of gastrin on the MC-26 cells were examined in various in vitro culture models, in terms of [
4296427|A new cell line from the human umbilical vein has been established and maintained for more than 5 yr (180 generations; 900 population doublings). This strain, designated ECV304, is characterized by a cobblestone monolayer growth pattern, high proliferative potential without any specific growth factor requirement, and anchorage dependency with contact inhibition. Karyotype analysis of this cell line reveals it to be of human chromosomal constitution with a high trisomic karyotype (mode 80). Ultrastructurally, endothelium-specific Weibel-Palade bodies were identified. Although one of the endothelial cell markers, Factor VIII-related antigen (VIIIR:Ag) was negative in this cell line, immunocytochemical staining for the lectin Ulex europaeus I (UEA-I), and PHM5 (anti-human endothelium as well as glomerular epithelium monoclonal antibody) was positive, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity was also demonstrated. In addition, ECV304 displayed negativity for alkaline and acid phosphatase and for the epithelial marker keratin. All of these findings suggest that ECV304 cells originated from umbilical vein endothelial cells by spontaneous transformation. Ultrastructurally, no viruslike particles have been detected intracellularly. Nude mouse tumorigenicity and rabbit cornea tests were both positive. This is a report on a novel case of phenotypic alteration of normal venous endothelial cells of human origin in vitro, and generation of a transformant with indefinite life spans. This line may be useful in studies of some physiologically active factors available for medical use.
4296992|The possible role of extracellular calcium (
4295942|Mouse epidermal keratinocytes (MK cells) were grown as replicating subcultures at clonal density, in a serum-free, low calcium basal medium supplemented with seven different growth factors (Bertolero et al., Exp. Cell. Res. 155:64-80, 1984). This serum-free system was used to investigate the activity of fetal bovine serum (FBS) and of serum-derived factors on the growth and differentiation of MK cells. Unfractionated, whole FBS inhibited growth and induced terminal differentiation of normal MK cells. The growth inhibitory activity was considerably reduced by passing whole FBS over a resin (Chelex) to remove Ca
4296722|We have previously reported that pericytes derived from retinal and brain microvessels aggregate into nodules soon after reaching confluence. Nodule formation involves a reorganization of the cells resulting in the presence of sparse cells, confluent monolayers, multilayers, sprouts, and nodules within the same culture dish. Extracellular calcification occurs only within the nodules, demonstrating that pericytes are capable of undergoing osteogenic differentiation in culture and that this differentiation is related to nodule formation. Using immunofluorescence we have now studied the distribution of laminin, type IV collagen, type X collagen, and tenascin in pericyte cultures during nodule formation. These matrix macromolecules were also identified by a combination of biochemical techniques, including Northern blot hybridization, immunoblotting and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A molecule that seems to be related to type X collagen was demonstrated by the presence of a pepsin-resistant, collagenase-sensitive polypeptide of molecular weight approximately 45 kDa. The production of laminin, type X-related collagen, and tenascin by pericytes has not been previously reported. Our results suggest that the synthesis or distribution or both of these molecules is dependent on the state of pericyte differentiation. The expression of laminin, type IV collagen, and type X-related collagen was maximal in multilayer areas, sprouts, and nodules. Tenascin appeared homogeneously distributed in monolayer and multilayer areas; when calcified nodules were present, the anti-tenascin serum preferentially decorated a discrete area circumscribing the nodules. Tenascin and type X collagen have been found transiently in vivo preceding calcification; their possible role in this process is not known. Our results also suggest an association between laminin, type IV collagen, and calcification. The in vitro experimental system described here may help to clarify the role of matrix macromolecules in the calcification process.
4296472|A twenty fold multiplication per twenty days of caper was achieved by culturing nodal shoot segments in the presence of BAP (
20171405| Using a preparation of highly purified, adult rat Leydig cells and conditions of culture which we found to optimize testosterone production during 24 h, we sought to maintain optimal testosterone production for 3 d. Leydig cells cultured on Cytodex 3 beads at 19% O in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-Ham's nutrient mixture F12 (1:1; vol/vol) containing 0.5 mg/ml total bovine lipoproteins (&lt;1.222 g/ml) with maximal luteinizing hormone (LH) stimulation failed to maintain a constant amount of testosterone for 3 d. These cells did however secrete a similar amount of total delta 4-3-ketosteroids on each of the 3 culture d, indicating that their viability was preserved. The predominance of progesterone and 170H-progesterone relative to the amount of androstenedione found on Days 2 and 3 suggested that the activity of the cytochrome P C-hydroxylase-C,-lyase enzyme in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum was diminished when Leydig cells were maintained in our primary culture for longer than 24 h. Decreasing the oxygen tension of the cultures from 19 to 5%, and decreasing the concentration of LH used to stimulate the Leydig cells from 100 to 0.1 ng/ml, were necessary to achieve maintenance of testosterone secretion without accumulation of other delta 4-3-ketosteroids during a 3-d period. Cells cultured in this fashion were still able to respond to maximal LH stimulation during Day 3, producing as much testosterone as if cultured for 24 h on Day 1 at 19% O with 100 ng/ml LH stimulation. 
4295844|The relationship between transcriptional activity and gene association with the nuclear matrix has been investigated in Drosophila melanogaster. The nuclear matrix of Schneider cell line 2 of Drosophila was isolated and observed to conform to expected dimensions in phase contrast and scanning electron microscopic preparations. This structure contains proteins that appear similar to the intact nucleus. High salt extracted nuclei digested with DNase I released 98% of the DNA, whereas digestion with Eco RI released a maximum of 80%. These and other nuclease digestions indicate that satellite DNA as well as some unique sequence DNA are bound to the nuclear matrix. A constitutively transcribed actin gene was enriched in the nuclear matrix bound DNA. Two other nontranscribed genes, a muscle-specific actin gene and the myosin heavy chain gene, showed no enrichment in nuclear matrix DNA.
4296510|Trophoblast is the major functional cell type of the placenta. The purpose of this study was to devise a means to isolate trophoblast cells from the monkey placenta and to examine their capacity to differentiate in vitro. Methods originally devised for the isolation of human cytotrophoblast cells produced poor yields and a low degree of purity when applied to the near-term rhesus monkey placenta. However, a procedure has been developed which allows the isolation of a cell population consisting of more than 95% cytotrophoblast based on intermediate filament immunocytochemistry. The cells sedimented between densities of 1.040 and 1.053 g/ml on continuous Percoll density gradient centrifugation. When maintained in culture the cells adhered and formed aggregates of mononuclear cells by 24 h. By 5 d in culture, immunofluorescent staining using antidesmoplakin and antinuclear antibodies revealed that most colonies consisted of large multinucleated masses similar to syncytiotrophoblast. These results demonstrate trophoblast cells from monkey placental villi can be isolated with a high degree of purity and undergo morphologic differentiation in vitro. This preparation should enable investigators to study many functional characteristics of these cells throughout gestation.
4295832|A new synthetic medium (referred to as GC
4296824|The fetal respiratory distress syndrome is due, in part, to the presence of abundant pre-type II alveolar epithelial cells that have not yet differentiated into mature type II cells. Studies of this syndrome have been limited somewhat by the lack of an adequate in vitro model. In the present study we immortalized pre-type II cells by infecting primary isolates obtained from fetal rat lung with a retroviral construct expressing the adenoviral 12S E1A gene product. The immortalized pre-type II cells retained many of the ultrastructural features typical of pre-type II cells in primary culture, most notably lamellar bodies were not detected and the cells contained abundant stores of glycogen, expressed cytokeratin filaments, and bound the lectin Maclura pomifera. Karyotyping revealed that the cells are diploid. Growth studies demonstrate log phase growth in the presence of serum with a markedly decreased growth rate shortly after the cells reach confluence. Exposure of the immortalized pre-type II cells to hydrocortisone and dibutryl cAMP resulted in the induction of lamellar bodylike organelles; however, these cells did not secrete surfactant or express surfactant protein A. These cells may serve as useful models for some in vitro studies of fetal type II cell maturation or the fetal respiratory distress syndrome, or both.
4295872|Cell cultures of epithelial-like human amniocytes were infected with simian virus 40 (SV40) and Kirsten sarcoma virus (KSV) in various sequential orders, and tested for agar growth, chromosome abnormalities, and tumorigenesis in the nude mouse assay. We observed that regardless of the order in which the viruses were introduced, the doubly infected cells always exhibited the typical SV40 premalignantly transformed phenotype before changing to the malignant phenotype. All doubly transformed cells from different cell donors produced tumors in adult and suckling nude athymic mice, classified as poorly differentiated sarcomas. Infection with SV40 alone conferred extended life span and accelerated growth without the malignant capability of tumor production. Kirsten sarcoma virus alone produced only focal cell alterations with no change in cell longevity or tumorigenesis. Chromosome studies of the premalignant and malignant cells from one cell donor did not reveal any significant clonal development for marker chromosomes in either cell line. Chromosome 12, which carries the homologous cellular oncogene to KSV, had no increase in aberrations in the malignant cells. Chromosome 8 was most often involved in aberrations, and the most frequent aberration for both series was dicentric chromosomes due to telomere fusion. For other translocations the breakpoints were almost exclusively in the centromere regions. The vulnerability of telomere and centromere regions to the free virus present in these precrisis cells is discussed, and similarities in regard to types of aberrations in transfection experiments are noted.
4296792|A new approach was investigated to study the interaction between integrins and actin via intracytoplasmic proteins. Because intracellular processes are hampered by the limiting plasma membrane, we developed an in vitro model with cells perforated by a bacterial toxin, streptolysin O. The specific conditions for the use of permeabilized cells to study the intramolecular associations occurring at adhesion plaques are described. The two cell types used, HUVEC and CHO, showed that the choice of the perforation method is of great importance. After perforation of cells in a monolayer,
4296113| Digitaria sanguinalis (crabgrass) has recently been introduced as a high quality forage crop. We report here a tissue culture system showing a high level of regeneration developed to aid in a breeding program. Two morphologically distinct types of callus, compact opaque and friable translucent, were induced from leaf blade explants and mature seeds when cultured on MS medium containing 0.9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Proline (25 mM) inhibited induction of callus but was required for continued maintenance. Plants were readily regenerated from the compact opaque callus. Selectively subcultured friable translucent callus continued to produce colony sectors of the morphogenically competent compact opaque callus when transferred to regeneration medium. Suspension cell cultures derived from callus or directly from leaf blade explants also produced regenerable callus. 
4296864|We have developed a defined method for human epidermal keratinocyte culture. The minimally supplemented basal medium supported establishment of primary cultures from neonatal foreskin in a defined environment. It also supported serial cultivation and rapid expansion of cell number. Casein replaced serum for defined cryopreservation. Cells were serially cultivated in medium containing 0.08 mM calcium. The rate of cell division however remained high after addition of 1.8 mM calcium. The particulate transglutaminase activity of the cultures was low at confluence, even in the presence of 1.88 mM calcium, indicating an enrichment of the basal cell population. Culture with small amounts (0.3%) of chelated serum increased particulate transglutaminase activity approximately 2.2-fold in low calcium cultures and approximately 3.5-fold in high calcium cultures. A gradual reduction in growth rate of serum-treated cultures upon serial cultivation also indicated a depletion of cells with basal cell character. Bovine hypothalamic extract and cholera toxin were able to avert, in part, the differentiation-promoting effects of serum. Keratinocytes serially cultivated in the defined medium maintained the ability to develop normally into a morphologically differentiated epidermis.
4296157|The role of various iron chelators on the multiplication of mouse hybridoma cells in an albumin-free, transferrin-deficient defined medium was investigated. Fe(III)-dihydroxyethylglycine, Fe(III)-glycylglycine, Fe(III)-ethylenediamine-N,N'-dipropionic acid, or Fe(III)-iminodiacetic acid supported the excellent growth of the cells. In addition, the growth of the iron-starved cells, which had been preincubated in a protein-, iron- and chelator-free defined medium, restored rapidly when the medium was supplemented with holotransferrin, ferric iron, and chelator compared to that when supplemented with holotransferrin, but without iron and chelator. The results suggest that such chelators modulate a progression of transferrin cycle in the presence of transferrin and ferric iron. An alternative explanation is that there is a decrease in generation of iron-catalyzed free radicals.
4296973|A series of experiments have been carried out to identify those factors that affect the number of altered populations detected in control, nonexposed, and radiation-exposed primary cultures of rat tracheal epithelial cells. The number of colony forming cells per milliliter of culture medium and the frequency with which the culture medium is changed seemed to be the most critical factors regulating the emergence of induced and spontaneous variants. Increasing the number of cells plated so that of colony forming cells increase from 25 to 200 per ml, regardless of the dish size used, was associated with a 200-fold decline in the frequency of spontaneous variants and a 40-fold decline in X-ray-induced variants. Increasing the interval between medium changes from 3 to 7 days after the first week of culture was associated with a 10-fold decrease in the frequency of spontaneous variants. The frequency of spontaneous and induced variants is markedly less dependent on culture density at densities between 150 and 600 colony forming cells per ml. The type of medium used to establish primary cultures had little effect on the frequency of variants detected. Similarly, when assays were performed at densities in excess of 150 colony forming cells per ml the frequency of spontaneous and x-ray-induced variants was not affected by the absence of epidermal growth factor, increased levels of calcium (final concentration, 0.8 mM), or by removal of pyruvate from the selection medium.
4296391|This study was conducted to identify a defined, serum-free culture medium that supports cell dependent contraction of a collagen lattice. Collagen lattices were found to contract in cultures containing human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF) or rabbit aortic smooth muscle (RASM) cells incubated in serum-free medium. HFF and RASM cells required different supplements to contract the collagen gels. HFF cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's (DME) medium supplemented with bovine serum albumin (BSA) and either endothelial cell growth supplement (EnGS), insulin (In), or platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) supported collagen lattice contraction. Replacement of BSA with casein without the addition of other supplements improved contraction. In contrast, RASM cells supplemented with BSA, EnGS, In, and PDGF were able to contract collagen gels only minimally. Similar to HFF, RASM cells cultured in DME medium supplemented with casein, but without the addition of other supplements, contracted collagen lattices. HFF-mediated collagen contraction was inhibited by prostaglandins E
4296827| A floating collagen matrix culture of neonatal rat heart myocardial cells shows rhythmic contractions which are dependent on localization of ceDs, cell density, and collagen concentration. The rhythmic contractions of the collagen matrix can be registered by a device scanning the optical density at the edge of the gel and have been observed over a temperature range from 9 to 40 C. The results of the present study underline the usefulness of myocardial cell populated collagen matrixes for studies on coherent contractions of heart cell cultures. 
4295830|A hamster trachea organ culture system was utilized to evaluate quantitatively the effects of a strain of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) and culture supernatants of the same strain on ciliary activity. Tracheal explants were maintained in organ culture for 96 to 144 h and ciliary activity was observed daily with an inverted microscope. Explants continuously exposed to a strain of NTHI had a progressive decline in ciliary activity which was significantly lower than uninfected controls evaluated concomitantly by 48 h of exposure and thereafter. Histologic studies revealed a progressive degeneration of mucosal cells and exfoliation of ciliated cells. Scanning electron microscopy showed little adherence of NTHI to the mucosal surface. Sterile broth cultures of NTHI and supernatants of organ cultures infected with the same NTHI strain had no adverse effect on ciliary activity. Infected tracheal explants treated with ampicillin 24, 48, or 72 h after continuous bacterial challenge had no significant decline in ciliary activity compared to controls. The lack of adherence and the histologic changes observed when hamster trachea cultures were infected with NTHI suggested a toxin might mediate the damage observed. Broth and organ culture supernatants, however, produced no damage. Therefore, further studies are needed to determine the role, if any, of a toxin in the production of damage to hamster tracheal explants by NTHI.
4296707|Growth of normal and malignant mouse mammary epithelial cells (MMEC) on a biomatrix of substrate-attached material from 3T3-L1 preadipocytes was evaluated to devise culture conditions that are suitable for transformation studies but do not involve embedding cells in a gel. The biomatrix was prepared as described by Levine and Stockdale (18), and serum-free medium contained bovine serum albumin, insulin, progesterone, prolactin, and linoleic acid. Each cell type produced a distinctive pattern of colony architecture in this culture system. Cells from virgin mice (vMMEC) usually formed elaborate, three-dimensional structures resembling ducts and alveoli; cells from pregnant mice (pMMEC) grew as flat monolayers; and tumor cells grew in multilayered clusters. Cell growth was monitored by an assay for succinate dehydrogenase. Similar growth rates were found through Day 8 in cultures of vMMEC and D2 carcinoma cells. Growth of vMMEC slowed thereafter, whereas tumor cells typically continued growing through Day 14 to 18. Increase in cell number during 18 days in culture was 3-, 7-, 9-, and 11-fold for cells from pregnant and virgin mice, BALB/cfC3H and D2 carcinomas, respectively. The percent cells in S phase on Day 2 of culture was 9% for pMMEC, 4 to 11% for BALB/cfC3H tumor cells, 20% for vMMEC, and 24% for D2 tumor cells. Thus, this culture system promotes extended growth of MMEC and offers several advantages over embedding cells in a collagen gel. It may therefore be applicable to in vitro transformation studies with MMEC.
4296028|Phenotypic changes (increased longevity, decreased growth factor requirements, altered cell surface features, growth in semisolid agarose, and SV40 T antigen expression) suggesting in vitro transformation were displayed by human normal colon mucosal epithelial cells transfected with pSV3gpt, a pBR322 recombinant containing the SV40 "early" T antigen coding region and the dominant selectable marker bacterial gene, xanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase. In contrast, control cultures which received neither DNA nor the recombinant pSV2gpt (which is identical to pSV3gpt but lacks the SV40 T antigen region) were not phenotypically altered.
4296158|Rat liver epithelial cell lines, growing in a serum-supplemented medium, synthesize and secrete into the culture medium the third component of complement (C
4296411|Porcine cerebral microvascular (PCMV) endothelial cell cultures and pericyte-endothelial cell cocultures were established and the self-organizational properties of the cells were examined in various culture conditions. Cultured PCMV endothelial cells were characterized by the capacity to produce prostacyclin in response to bradykinin. Cultured PCMV pericytes were identified with a smooth muscle actin-specific stain. PCMV endothelial cells organized into cord structures when left in culture for several weeks without passage. Lumina were observed in cross sections of these cords and appeared to form through a process of cell-selective autolysis. PCMV endothelial cells required three dimensions for self-organization, forming suspended cords in planes that either intersected or paralleled the culture vessel floor. After formation, suspended cords continued to exhibit a morphologic plasticity punctuated by the coordinated migrations of PCMV endothelial cells en masse. Sequential propagation of PCMV endothelial cell monolayers and development of suspended capillarylike cords recurred cyclically when cells were left in culture without passage for several weeks. Cord development was also observed in PCMV pericyte-endothelial cell cocultures with large proportions of pericytes. However, pericytes were not located in cross sections of suspended cords formed in coculture. Apparently, in some conditions of PCMV coculture, populations of PCMV endothelial cells and pericytes segregate. Retina-derived growth factor (RDGF) promoted this cell-type segregation and the subsequent formation of suspended cords in PCMV cocultures, although its exact mode of action is unclear. These results indicate that cultured cerebral microvascular endothelial cells and pericytes have capacities for complex, temporal self-organization that varies according to culture conditions.
20171548| A novel method of synchronizing monolayer tissue culture cells is described. By limiting the period of attachment of trypsinized cells and the subsequent removal of unattached cells a G population of cells is isolated. Evaluation of the degree of synchrony has been carried out by measuring the labeling index and incorporation of [H]thymidine into DNA. Further conformation of synchrony, as well as a comparison with synchrony by isoleucine deprivation, was obtained by flow cytometry. The expected peak in DNA synthesis rate following limited attachment was observed. This peak becomes more prominent and shifts to earlier times with shorter attachment intervals. The synchronization method described is simple, rapid, yields a substantial number of cells, and is applicable to many cell lines. 
4296600|The interactions of vascular smooth muscle cells with growth modulators and extracellular matrix molecules may play a role in the proliferation and migration of these cells after vascular injury and during the development of atherosclerosis. Time-lapse cinematographic techniques have been used to study cell division and migration of bovine carotid artery smooth muscle cells in response to matrix molecules consisting of solubilized basement membrane (Matrigel) and type I collagen. When cells were grown adjacent to Matrigel, both migration and cell proliferation were increased and interdivision time was shortened. Cells grown in Matrigel or in type I collagen had markedly reduced migration rates but interdivision time was not altered. Further, diffusible components of the Matrigel were found to stimulate proliferation of the smooth muscle cells.
4296740|Normal epithelial cells from the rat mammary gland proliferated in culture when plated with lethally irradiated cells of the LA7 rat mammary tumor line. Proliferation of the normal rat cells occured as the LA7 cells slowly died from the radiation. By labeling the cultures with
4296384|For the past 60 years, fundamental discoveries in eukaryotic biology using mammalian cell cultures have been significant but modest relative to the enormous potential. Combined with advances in technologies of cell and molecular biology, mammalian cell culture technology is becoming a major, if not essential tool, for fundamental discovery in eukaryotic biology. Reconstruction of the milieu for cells has progressed from simple salt solutions supporting brief survival of tissues outside the body to synthesis of the complete set of structurally defined nutrients, hormones and elements of the extracellular matrix needed to reconstruct complex tissues from cells. The isolation of specific cell types in completely defined environments reveals the true complexity of the mammalian cell and its environment as a dynamic interactive physiological unit. Cell cultures provide the tool for detection and dissection of the mechanism of action of cellular regulators and the genes that determine individual aspects of cell behavior. The technology underpins advances in virology, somatic cell genetics, endocrinology, carcinogenesis, toxicology, pharmacology, hematopoiesis and immunology, and is becoming a major tool in developmental biology, complex tissue physiology and production of unique mammalian cell-derived biologicals in industry.
4296478|CEM-C7, a human leukemic CD4+ T-lymphocyte cell line and three of its subclones, CEM-4R4, CEM-3R43, and ICR-27, previously cultured in a medium supplemented with 5 to 10% fetal bovine serum, have been adapted to serum-free media. The best medium of those tested was RPMI 1640 supplemented with 5 g/ml each transferrin and insulin + 5 ng/ml sodium selenite  0.1% bovine serum albumin. While growing either with or without albumin, the several clonal lines of CEM cells displayed growth similar to serum-supplemented cultures. Cell proliferation of CEM-C7 cells cultured in both serum-free media has been sustained for 3 mo. with culture doubling times of about 25 h for both serum-supplemented and serum-free cultures (viability  90%). Cell morphology remained essentially the same in serum-free or serum containing media. The expression of CD4, a marker for T-derived lymphoid cells, was not significantly different in serum-free medium. When grown in serum-free medium, CEM-C7 cells exhibited increased steroid responsiveness as evidenced by increased glucocorticoid receptor binding sites, increased induction of glutamine synthetase, and cell lysis at lower concentrations of steroid. Receptor mutant subclones of CEM-C7, which are proven to be completely unresponsive to micromolar concentrations of dexamethasone when grown in serum-supplemented medium, become partially sensitive to the hormone after growth in defined medium. The increased sensitivity of CEM-C7 cells and its subclones to dexamethasone in serum-free medium returned to previous levels when these cells were recultured in serum-containing medium. Our results suggest that substances in serum influence steroid effects on these cells and that the molecular details of glucocorticoid hormone action may be pursued more precisely in a clearly defined culture medium.
4296014|The human fetal adrenal cortex is one of the largest fetal organs and synthesizes precursors for placental estrogen production as part of the feto-placental unit. The factors controlling the rapid growth of the human fetal adrenal cortex during the second and third trimesters are not known. Placental regulation of the growth of human fetal adrenocortical cell cultures from second trimester fetuses was studied. A placental-derived mitogenic factor (PDMF) was detected in tissue homogenates of 14 to 22 week human placentas and stimulated adrenocortical cell number and [
4295743|Single-cell-cloned cell lines have been established from primary cultures of neonatal rat mammary glands. A representative cuboidal cell line, Rama 704, shows the presence of intermediate filamental proteins keratin and vimentin, and occasional cells express milk fat globule membrane antigens on their apical surfaces. Rama 704 cells grow as a cuboidal pavement in culture and produce hemispherical blisters or domes when confluent. Noteworthy ultrastructural features are the presence of junctional complexes, desmosomes, and apical microvilli typical of epithelia. Cells seeded within floating collagen gels will form a variety of multicellular outgrowths, some of which are ductlike in morphology and are composed of polarized cells surrounding a central lumen. The cuboidal cells produce elongated cells under conditions of high cell density and also when cells float off collagen gels and reattach to the plastic substrate. The former elongated cells have been cloned and three cell lines established: Rama 710, 711, and 712; the latter uncloned elongated cells are termed Rama 704E. The cloned elongated cells show an increase in the amounts of basement membrane proteins deposited, a lack of junctional complexes and microvilli, and an increase in the amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum compared with their parental cells. Rama 704E cells show an enhanced deposition of basement membrane proteins and increased amounts of actin in the cytoplasm over the elongated cell lines and contain microfilaments and pinocytotic vesicles similar to those seen in myoepithelial cells. All the elongated cells and lines fail to form ductlike structures within collagen gels. None of the cell lines form tumors in syngeneic rats although they all produce some tumors in nude mice, which are composed of cords of epithelioid cells and spindle cells in varying proportions. In addition, some of the Rama 704 tumors contain rhab-domyoblastic elements that penetrate the host fat pad. This is the first report of the isolation and characterization of a stable cuboidal cell line from a neonatal rat mammary gland. The Rama 704 cell line shows morphological and biochemical features of mammary epithelial cells and converts at high cell density to elongated cells that have also been cloned.
4295806|A method has been developed for growing confluent primary cultured monolayers of guinea pig gastric mucous cells suitable for in vitro electrophysiological, transport, and pharmacological studies. Isolated mucous cells were enriched on a one-step Percoll density gradient and plated on fibronectin-coated plastic dishes or in small cups with holes containing glutaraldehyde-fixed Vitrogen gels. These cups were designed to fit in Ussing chambers. Mucous cells attached, proliferated, and formed confluent monolayers in 3 d. The low cuboidal cells contained periodic acid Schiff-positive mucous granules that were negative by Bowie and indirect immunofluorescent staining for pepsinogen. Electron microscopy revealed polarized mucous cells with microvilli, mucous granules, microfilaments, small mitochondria, some vacuoles, and junctional complexes that excluded wheat germ agglutinin-peroxidase. No basal lamina was present. Monolayers could be maintained for over 2 wk but subcultures were not made. The cultures were virtually free of fibroblasts. Epithelial sheets produced by this simple and rapid method can be used for electrophysiological, ion transport, and pharmacological studies.
4296195|A primary culture of serous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary was used to study the expression of intermediate filament proteins and the deposition of basal lamina proteins. It was found that cells grown on type I and IV collagens or in collagen gels failed to express vimentin, which was readily demonstrable in cultures of the same cells grown on plastic or glass. Furthermore cells grown in collagen gels formed colonics demonstrating a cystic architecture. Unlike what is commonly observed on glass or plastic, where laminin and fibronectin are deposited as disorganized fibrils in the extracellular space, in or on collagen these proteins appear solely at the interface between the epithelial cells and matrix. The results suggest that the extracellular matrix influences the cytoskeletal organization of the intermediate filaments and determines cell polarity. They confirm that collagen substrates permit epithelial cell cultures to progress toward a more differentiated state.
4296654|Alterations in proteolytic capabilities have been associated with abnormalities in the aged eye lens, but in vivo tests of this hypothesis have been difficult to pursue. To simulate aging, we cultured cells from an 8-yr-old rabbit to early (population-doubling level 20 to 30) and late (population-doubling level >125) passage. Long-lived ($t_{1/2} > 10 h$) and short-lived ($t_{1/2} > 10 h$) intracellular proteins were labeled with
4296184|The purpose of this study was to develop a nonenzymatic method of isolating adult islets using atrophied pancreata from copper-deficient rats and to analyze their morphologic characteristics and behavior in culture. This unusual model of isolation was studied because islets remain intact in the course of dietary copper deficiency while the acinar glandular component of the pancreas undergoes selective atrophy and lipomatosis. Small fragments containing islets were readily microdissected from atrophied glands and placed in culture. Within 24 h the fragments congealed into small irregular-to spherical-shaped masses within which the darker profile of islets could be distinguished. Within a period of 3 to 5 d, islet tissue began to bud from the lipocytic mass until by Day 7 spherical aggregates of intact islet tissue separated from the residual fragments. Subsequent to further in vitro treatment, these islets could be maintained as free viable spherical masses if periodically agitated, as attached stationary islets which developed monolayer growth if left undisturbed and as aggregated masses of islet tissue forming megaislets if combined in small groups. Grouped islets treated with actinomycin D and cycloheximide did not exhibit aggregation when incubated with these inhibitors. This suggests that megaislet formation was an active process requiring protein-RNA synthesis rather than passive clumping or aggregation that can accompany metabolically altered or dying islets undergoing cellular shedding and adhesion. Immunohistochemical localization demonstrated that insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide-immunoreactive cell types were present within the islets derived from this technique. The cellular topography of these islets was not unlike that described by others for islets cultured from enzymatic isolation. This culture model may serve as a resource for mature, viable islets isolated without mechanical or enzymatic disaggregation which can have attenuating effects on islet function.
4296069| A highly efficient method is described for obtaining proliferative epithelial cells from adult rat livers for the reproducible establishment of liver epithelial cell strains. When cells were isolated from livers of 10- to 15-wk-old male Fischer 344 rats by a collagenase-perfusion method, collected by centrifugation at 50 xg for 5 min, and cultured in Williams' medium E containing fetal bovine serum and dexamethasone, colonies of epithelial cells different in size and morphology from hepatocytes were obtained. Sequential perfusion with collagenase and dispase yielded numerous epithelial cell colonies. When isolated cells were fractionated by differential centrifugation, the great majority of hepatocytes were sedimented at 50 xg for 1 min, whereas many non-hepatocytic cells remained in the supernatant and could be sedimented by a second centrifugation at 50 xg for 5 min. Culture of the two fractions revealed that almost all the epithelial cell colonies were derived from cells in the non-hepatocytic cell fraction. The epithelial cells were cytochemically negative for -glutamyl transpeptidase activity, whereas an increase in the activity was detected in hepatocytes with duration in culture. Ultrastructural characteristics of hepatocytes were not found in the cells of newly established cell strains. These results suggest that adult rat liver epithelial cells propagable in culture were derived from a cell type other than the hepatocyte. 
4296235| A quantitative evaluation of lectin binding to adult rat hepatocyte cell surfaces was done using cells isolated by two different collagenase perfusion methodologies and cultured as monolayers with two different tissue culture media formulations (protocol I vs. protocol II). The presence of -D-mannosyl and -D-glucosyl groups was detected by the binding of Concanavalin A (Con A), Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA), and Pisum sativum agglutinin (PSA) to freshly isolated cells. Furthermore, -D-galactose [Ricinus communis agglutinin (RCA)] and sialic acid residues [wheat germ (WGA)] were also found. Protocols I and II served as models for evaluation of: a) the stripping effect of collagenase separation procedures, b) the restoration in culture of collagenase-stripped sugar residues, c) the effect of the culture environment on cell viability [as measured by lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage] and the protein content of hepatocytes, and d) the presence of cell surface sugar residues as a function of culture duration. The ultrastructural morphology of freshly isolated and cultured hepatocytes was also evaluated. These studies indicated that a decline in lectin binding invariably occurred earlier than a massive leakage of LDH and a decrease in the protein content of the cells in culture. Ultrastructurally, autophagocytosis was an early phenomenon in cells isolated and cultured by protocol I, which was also inferior to protocol II regarding the preservation of hepatocyte glycocalyces. Sugar residues lost due to the colla genase-stripping effect were restored, as shown by lectin binding, within the first 24 h of culture. This stripping effect was confirmed by quantitative evaluations of lectin binding to hepatocytes in culture after an incubation with collagenase. This study shows that the binding of peroxidase-labeled lectins is a useful tool for quantitative evaluation of the sugar composition of hepatocyte cultures. 
20171437| A time-dependent redistribution of microfilaments was observed in cultured human keratinocytes using a human monoclonal autoantibody specific for myosin. Immunofluorescent staining revealed that 5 days after plating keratinocytes in either 0.1 mM or 2.0 mM Ca, myosin was distributed uniformly throughout the cytoplasm. At day 6, parallel arrays of myosin-containing microfilaments were prominent in the cell peripheries. At day 7 the microfilaments formed circumferential rings. The distribution of the microfilaments was disrupted by cytochalasin but not by colchicine, indicating that this novel distribution of myosin was not dependent on colchicine-sensitive vimentin intermediate filaments. The time-dependent redistribution of myosin was not influenced by cell population density, cell shape or cell cycle phase, except for mitotic cells in which myosin was distributed diffusely through the cytoplasm. If, as suggested by Kolega (9), microfilaments align parallel to the direction of applied tension, the redistribution of myosin-containing microfilaments in cultured keratinocytes may reflect the increased tension between cells resulting from increasing strength of cell-cell junctions over time. In sectioned human skin, myosin was localized in the peripheral cytoplasm of stratified epidermal cells. Tensions arising from the numerous desmosomal junctions between cells in vivo could account for this distribution of myosin. 
4296481|Conditions are presented for application of both bisbenzamide (Hoechst 33258) stain and a specific fluoresceinated anti-Mycoplasma hyorhinis IgG to a single cell culture preparation. This allows the same field on a slide to be viewed for presumptive diagnosis of any cell culture contaminant mycoplasma by bisbenzamide staining and for definitive diagnosis of M. hyorhinis strains using fluoresceinated antibody. The use of this method plus a cultural procedure will permit identification of the "noncultivable" M. hyorhinis strain DBS 1050.
20171552| Lung alveolar epithelial cells have been studied in a variety of laboratory animal models, and studies of human alveolar epithelial cells are important for comparison to information obtained from animal studies. Autopsy material is a source of human cells for study. Studies of human autopsy material revealed variables that negatively affected the yield of viable cells. For specimens from adults, these included death greater than 12 h before cell isolation, obvious severe lung fibrosis, longstanding metabolic disorders, and lung congestion indicated by weight of the right middle lobe greater than 150 g. Samples from children yielded significant numbers of viable cells up to 18 h after death. For 17 specimens that conformed to the above criteria, approximately 8.5  10 alveolar cells were obtained per gram of tissue (tissue weights ranged from 30 to 108 g) using a procedure involving instillation of proteases into the airways. The cells could be further fractionated, and 10 to 15% of the mixed cells obtained were type II pneumocytes. Analysis of NADPH cytochrome-c-reductase distribution in subcellular fractions provided evidence that the cells obtained were intact. Phospholipid enzyme activities and synthetic activity were within the ranges previously found in laboratory studies of freshly obtained animal lungs. These results suggest that significant numbers of viable and functional human lung cells, including type II pneumocytes, can be obtained from autopsy material. 
20171392|Stainless steel mesh supported the high density growth of anchorage dependent CHO fibroblasts without the use of a special culture system. CHO cells, designated B-9, containing an amplified genomic construct of the human gene for Mullerian Inhibiting Substance (MIS), grew to a high confluent density on stainless steel meshwork while producing substantial amounts of human recombinant MIS over a long period of time. The mesh could be easily coated with various extracellular matrix proteins, such as Laminin, Fibronectin, Collagen or Matrigel, which permitted the testing of the effects of surface modifications on cell yield and recombinant protein production. Since the amount of medium per surface area required for optimal cell growth is lower than for some large volume cell culture methods, media costs can be reduced using mesh. In addition, no special cell culture equipment or complex manipulations are required. Thus, the use of meshwork for anchorage-dependent cells can increase the efficiency of growth and decrease the cost of recombinant protein production.
4295945|Isolation and characterization of a single cell suspension from the rat mammary gland was achieved by combining selective enzymatic digestion and the mechanical agitation of a Stomacher laboratory blender with immunohistological identification of cell-specific markers. Utilizing this procedure we were able to isolate single cell suspensions of high yield (10 to 15  10
4296735| Epithelial cells were isolated from mouse endometrium and cultured on two types of extracellular matrix, namely, rat-tail collagen (type I) gels and basement membrane extract (BME) derived from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm murine sarcoma. Cell attachment in serum-free medium during the initial 24 h after seeding was approximately twofold higher on BME compared with collagen type I. Addition of serum to the medium enhanced cell attachment on both matrices. On both collagen and BME, uterine cells grew as smooth-bordered colonies, and within a week of culture the cells became cuboidal to columnar in shape. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of apical microvilli associated with a glycocalyx, junctional complexes, tonofilaments, short strands of undilated endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi complex, and lipid droplets. However, cells on BME showed a higher degree of differentiation as assessed by occasional formation of small patches of basement membranelike structure subjacent to the flattened basal surface and formation of glandlike structures within the matrix. Proliferation of these cells as measured by radioactive thymidine incorporation into DNA was increased threefold by addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin to the medium, but was not changed by 17-estradiol. The expression of progesterone receptors by uterine epithelial cells grown on both matrices was doubled by addition of EGF and estradiol to the medium. 
20171402|We report on the discrimination of vascular smooth muscle cells and myoepithelial cells in primary cultures of human breast tissue. Breast tissue was disaggregated enzymatically and the resulting organoids seeded in monolayer culture on collagen-coated plastic in serum-free medium CDM3a. Two main types of organoids were present after enzymatic digestion. One resembled small blood vessels and the other interlobular ducts or acini of the breast gland epithelium. Within 3 to 8 d after plating the organoids migrated into typical monolayer islets. These monolayer islets were evaluated using phase contrast microscopy and further tagged with monoclonal antibodies for immunocytochemical demonstration of Factor VIII-related antigen, muscle iso-forms of actin, type IV collagen, vimentin, desmin, and keratins. It is concluded that vascular smooth muscle cells resembled myoepithelial cells by expressing vimentin filaments, depositing type IV collagen, and showing immunoreactivity to muscle iso-forms of actin. However, whereas vascular smooth muscle cells were associated with endothelial cells and sometimes expressed desmin, myoepithelial cells appeared together with luminal epithelial cells and expressed cytokeratins.
4296084|Chronic reserpine treatment of animals, an experimental model for cystic fibrosis (CF), results in generalized exocrinopathy, impaired pancreatic secretion, and decreased pancreatic content of amylase. The mechanisms of altered acinar function and decreased amylase content in both CF and the reserpine-treated rat are unknown. To examine this alteration, the rate of
4296949|The human ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) is believed responsible for over 85% of ovarian cancers, yet little is known about the normal biology of these cells. To date, culture of OSE has only been reported in media with high serum supplements. We have developed two media, one with less than 1% of serum (OSEM-1) and the other comprised of highly purified and denned materials (OSEM-2), which allow us to study OSE under relatively defined conditions. By substituting 0.05% of Pedersen's fetuin for 15% fetal bovine serum (FBS) with Medium 199/MCDB105 basal medium, the cell numbers reached 50 to 60% of those in the presence of 15% FBS over 7 days. However, over several weeks, the total number of population doublings achieved were comparable to those in 15% FBS. Addition of insulin, transferrin, ethanolamine, lipoic acid, and phosphatidylcholine to the medium with Pedersen's fetuin (OSEM-1) enhanced growth up to 20% more than in their absence. Supplementation of M199/105 with highly purified (>99%) fetuin,
4296239|Diversity exists in both the structure and function of the endothelial cells (EC) that comprise the microvasculature of different organs. Studies of EC have been aided by our ability to first isolate and subsequently establish cultures from micro vascularized tissue. After the isolation of micro vessel endothelial cells (MEC) derived from rat cerebrum, we observed morphologic differences in colonies of cells that grew in primary cultures. The morphologies ranged from a cobblestone phenotype considered typical of EC in culture to elongated and stellate cell appearances. Serially passaged cell lines were established based on two parameters: initially by growth and, second, on differences in primary colony morphology using selective weeding techniques. Each culture was examined for the presence of EC-characteristic markers which include Factor-VIII-related antigen, angiotensin-I-converting enzyme activity, collagen type IV synthesis, and PGI
4296027|We compared the effects of defined medium, fetal bovine serum (FBS) and human serum (HuS) on the growth and responses to chemotherapeutic agents of human breast cancer cells in primary culture. Normal and tumor tissues were dissociated to small aggregates and single cells and seeded onto collagen-gel-coated wells in defined medium or medium supplemented with 5% FBS or 5% HuS. In all cases examined, defined medium and medium containing HuS were superior to medium containing FBS in supporting growth of both normal and tumor cell cultures. However, cultures in defined medium showed an initial cell loss. Cells from the same tumor cultured in different media varied in their responses to chemotherapeutic agents. In light of these results, medium supplemented with HuS, which promoted attachment of these cells in culture and stimulated their growth, should be the most appropriate nutrient environment for determining the effects of therapeutic agents on cells as it most closely resembles the in vivo situation. Because there were also variations in growth rates and chemosensitivities of tumor cells cultured in different human serum samples, we suggest that optimal conditions in which to culture these cells include the serum of the patient whose tumor is removed. This serum may provide host factors that influence cell growth and interact with exogenous factors.
4296636|We investigated the influence of fetal bovine serum, complemented or otherwise with estradiol or insulin or both, on the proliferation of mammary cancer cells from long-term and primary cultures. The long-term culture corresponded to mouse MXT and MCF-7 cell lines whereas the primary culture corresponded to primitive breast cancers squashed onto histologic slides and maintained in cultures for between 12 and 48 h. Cell proliferation was evaluated by means of digital cell image analysis of Feulgen-stained nuclei. Our results show that the addition of estradiol and insulin slightly but nevertheless significantly increases the proportion of cells still living at Hour 48 of culture. Fetal bovine serum, necessary for the growth of MXT and MCF-7 mammary cells, was highly cytotoxic with respect to the primary cultures of the 20 breast cancers under study. We are now conducting new experiments using chemically defined media to study the influence of new antineoplastic compounds on primary cultures of breast cancers.
20171460| The biological actions of insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I) measured under serum-free assay conditions were found to be significantly influenced by prior subculture conditions for adult human fibroblasts. Glucocorticoids seemed to be the major medium variable affecting IGF-I action. IGF-I added to serum-free cultures had little or no effect on [C]aminoisobutyric acid uptake or [H]thymidine incorporation in human fibroblasts previously maintained in media containing serum with low glucocorticoid levels or in serum stripped of endogenous steroids. However, a 48-h preincubation with dexamethasone resulted in a marked synergistic increase in IGF-I stimulation of [C]aminoisobutyric acid uptake and [H]thymidine incorporation in these cultures. In contrast, IGF-I in serum-free medium seemed to be a potent mitogenic and metabolic stimulus for human fibroblasts which had been subcultured in media with a high glucocorticoid content, either endogenous or supplemented. After these culture conditions, a 48-h preexposure to dexamethasone had no further enhancing effect on IGF-I action. Dexamethasone also potentiated IGF-I, insulin, and epidermal growth factor stimulation of fibroblast replication depending on the earlier subcultivation conditions. Thus, glucocorticoids are important modulators of IGF-I bioactivity in cultured human fibroblasts. Serum glucocorticoids can exert a profound influence on the biological phenomena measured in cell culture, even when the serum has been removed before the actual experiment, and must be carefully taken into account for accurate evaluation of the biological function of IGF-I and other growth factors. 
20171467| Quantitative data are presented on the efficiency of three stages of plant regeneration from somatic embryos of Norway spruce (Picea abies L.): 1) Maturation, the development of immature embryos to the cotyledonary stage; 2) Germination, primary root growth; and 3) Conversion, plantlet survival and continued growth in nonaxenic conditions. Maturation frequency was calculated relative to the number of immature somatic embryos induced to develop on the basal medium of von Arnold and Eriksson (1981). The average number of immature somatic embryos was 700 per gram of embryogenic callus, on medium supplemented with ABA and IBA (1 M each). Maturation was the least efficient stage of regeneration; an average of 3% of the embryos induced to develop reached the cotyledonary stage. Mean germination frequencies were improved on treatments which avoided immersion of the radicle in medium solidified with agar. Whereas, 27% of the somatic embryos germinated when radicles were immersed in agar medium, 45% germinated when placed on the surface of the medium, and 56% germinated when cotyledons were immersed in agar medium and the culture vessel inverted. Twenty-nine percent of the somatic embryos germinated in vitro were converted to plants. Under greenhouse conditions these plants set dormant buds, subsequently survived overwintering (to -5 C), and renewed vegetative growth synchronously with seedlings grown under the same conditions. Our results verified long-term (2 year) growth and development potential of conifer somatic embryo plants. 
4296886|Two in vitro passages of a human endometrial adenocarcinoma continuous cell line (RL95-2), an early (subcultured <30 times) and a late passage (subcultured >200 times) have provided an interesting model to study the growth, morphologic, and invasive properties of endometrial tumors. The early passage, which has been shown to be estrogen-receptor positive, has characteristics closely resembling a primary tumor, whereas the estrogen receptor negative late passage exhibits several features of the metastatic phenotype. Compared to the early passage cells, the late passage cells were less serum dependent, formed foci, demonstrated a faster rate of growth (due to their shorter doubling times), and attained higher saturation densities. The late passage cells also displayed an altered morphology which was accompanied by alterations in the distribution of F-actin. Even though early and late passages showed similar invasive potential in an in vitro invasion assay, the late passage cells, by virtue of their several transformed characteristics, maintain distinctive properties compared with their early passage counterparts.
20171506| Before the usefulness of a new in vitro model can be ascertained, the model must be properly defined and characterized. This study presents the growth rate and biochemical characteristics of rabbit renal proximal tubule cells in primary culture over a 2-wk culture period. When grown in a hormonally defined, antibiotic-free medium these cells form confluent monolayer cultures within 7 d after plating. Multicellular dome formation, an indicator of transepithelial solute transport, was expressed after confluent cultures were formed. The activity of the cytosolic enzyme, lactate dehydrogenase, and the lysosomal enzyme, N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, increased 14- and 2-fold during the first 8 d of culture, respectively. In contrast, the activity of a brush border enzyme, alkaline phosphatase, decreased 85% within the first 8 d of culture. Release of these enzyme markers into the culture medium, which are routinely used to measure cytotoxicity, stabilized after 8 d in culture. The ratio of cellular protein to DNA changed according to the state of cellular growth. Values rose from 0.035 mg protein/g DNA in preconfluent cultures to 0.059 mg protein/g DNA in confluent cultures. These results document the characteristics of a primary proximal tubule cell culture system for future studies in in vitro toxicology. 
20171573|Dormant grape somatic embryos from five genetically distinct culture lines were subjected either to dehydration or exogenous growth regulators (benzyladenine, gibberellin or abscisic acid). Of growth regulator treatments tested, benzyladenine resulted in the highest germination rate but postgermination growth was abnormal. Abscisic acid treatment resulted in the least germination. Dehydration for 21 d under 75-95% relative humidity was effective only for the culture line that produced well developed embryos. However, for this line, more embryos produced shoots after dehydration (34%) when compared to growth regulator treatments and the postgermination growth resembled that of a seedling. Moisture content of dehydrated somatic embryos was similar to that of seed at equivalent relative humidities. Because dehydrated embryos germinate after addition of water, they are considered to be quiescent or nondormant. Plant recovery rates of 34% after 21 d of dehydrated storage at 70% relative humidity suggests that dehydration of somatic embryos may eventually provide for the conservation of clonally propagated crops in seed gene banks.
4296736| In the present study we have established a pure monolayer culture system of human fallopian tube epithelial cells. The cells were isolated using collagenase digestion, and were cultured in Medium 199 supplemented with 15% fetal bovine serum. The epithelial cells derived from primary and secondary culture were characterized using immunocytochemical staining and electron microscopy. The cells continued to grow for 2 to 3 wk once the monolayer culture of the cells was established. It is currently possible to maintain the cultures until the third generation. Proliferation of these cells was enhanced by epidermal growth factor but not by basic-fibroblast growth factor, insulin, transferrin, estradiol-17, or progesterone. This culture system offers a good model for determining characteristics of the tubal epithelium and would permit effective study of co-culture with embryos. 
4296672|A low protein aqueous lipid supplement (Ex-Cyte VLE), in combination with pluronic polyol, is an effective replacement for fetal bovine serum for insect Sf-9 cells. Serum-free medium with lipid supplement and pluronic (SFM-LP) supported higher cell viability and maximum cell populations than serum-supplemented medium. No adaptation procedures are required when switching cells from serum-containing medium to SFM-LP, and growth rates remain constant during continued passages in SFM-LP. The amounts of recombinant proteins produced, which is the major use for the Sf-9 cells, are better or equal in SFM-LP compared to serum-supplemented medium. SFM-LP also supports growth of the TN-368 cell line but IPLB-SF-21AE or IZD-Mb0503 lines grow poorly in this medium.
4296236|Studies with Human x Human (HxH), Human x Mouse (HxM), and Mouse x Mouse (MxM) hybridomas have enabled us to define specific factors that affect hybridoma growth in a species-specific manner. Three transferons and three lipophilic iron chelates have been tested for their ability to support hybridoma proliferation and antibody production. The results of these studies demonstrate that HxH hybridomas do not respond to bovine transferrin
4296393|The effect of Zn-induced metallothionein (MT) on the toxicity, uptake, and subcellular distribution of cadmium (Cd) was examined in rat primary hepatocyte cultures and compared to results obtained earlier in this laboratory from intact animals. Hepatocytes were isolated and grown in monolayer culture for 22 h and subsequently treated with
4296850| Using a panel of monoclonal anitbodies to several different cytoskeletal elements in primary cultures derived from newborn rat hearts we report that fibroblasts similar to cardiac-muscle cells expressed the -actin isoform of smooth muscle cells. However, striated muscle -actin or desmin antibodies did not stain cardiac fibroblasts but did stain cardiac-muscle cells. The -smooth muscle actin distributed as a stress fiber and in a cross-striated pattern in cardiac muscle while fibroblasts showed exclusive stress fiber staining. These results suggest that connective tissue cells during development of the heart contain muscle-specific elements which may relate to the organ-specific contractile function with which they are associated. 
20171515|We have utilized a novel cell culture system to probe nerve-epidermal-blastema cell interactions, in which the cellular participants are plated as compartmentalized juxtaposed monolayers. A mesoderm monolayer is attached to a culture plate insert and placed into a tissue culture well, the bottom of which is seeded with a second cell type(s); the two monolayers are separated by a distance of 1 mm. An examination of the multiple interactions occurring during blastemal growth can thus be accomplished by deletion of one or more of the cellular participants and employment of a replacement strategy utilizing substances with putative growth-promoting activity. [H]Thymidine incorporation into DNA of urodele amphibian blastemal mesoderm cells was evaluated in response to the influence of juxtaposed brain or epidermal cell monolayers or both cultured in paired combinations. Brain cells were resolved by differential adhesive selectively into enriched neuronal and glial subpopulations. In the presence of enriched neuronal cells, radiolabel incorporation into blastemal mesoderm DNA was significantly greater than that achieved by coculturing with glial or unresolved brain cell populations. The effect of epidermal cells was not overtly expressed in the absence of neuronal cells. The effect of growth factors [fibroblast growth factor (FGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), nerve growth factor (NGF)] on radiolabel incorporation into blastemal mesoderm DNA was also assessed in both the presence and absence of neuronal cells. Both EGF and FGF enhanced radiolabel incorporation into DNA when blastemal mesoderm was cultured in the absence of nerve, but the effect was significantly less pronounced than that achieved by neuronal cells alone. This system has provided us with an additional means of characterizing the dialogue between epidermis, nerve, and mesodermal blastema cells, and determining the identity of growth signals.
4296446|We describe a method for maintaining neonatal pig pancreatic isletlike cell clusters (as pseudo-islets) embedded in a collagen gel matrix for long periods. The pseudo-islets were formed from single cells of pig pancreas maintained in a suspension culture and then embedded in pepsin-solubilized type I collagen. When the pseudo-islets were cultured in the collagen matrix, the amount of collagen in the culture decreased gradually during the culture period as soluble hydroxyproline-containing material accumulated in the medium. A low concentration of collagen (0.16%) degraded the collagen gels more rapidly than did high concentrations of collagen (0.64%). The degradation of collagen depended both on the number of pseudo-islets embedded in the gel matrix and on the culture conditions used to maintain them. With added nicotinamide, the accumulation of hydroxyproline decreased in the medium and the structure of the gel matrix was well maintained. Hydrocortisone or a specific inhibitor of collagenase did not decrease the solubilization of embedded pseudo-islet cultures and did not help to maintain their structure. These observations indicate the possible utility of long-term maintenance of pseudo-islets in collagen gel matrix in the presence of nicotinamide.
20171426|A mass of pure adult rat parenchymal hepatocytes, obtained by a newly devised isolation technique, developed into organized micro-liverlike layered multicellular colonies in long-term primary cultures grown in the presence of bovine small intestine mucosal factors (SIMFs). These factors stimulated proliferation, aggregation, and orderly arrangement of the hepatocytes, and differentiation into partially functional micro-livers in vitro. SIMFs derived from other mammalian species affected rat hepatocytes in the same manner. Studies of the effects of mammalian SIMFs on hepatocytes may provide new insights into the kinetics and mechanisms of liver regeneration.
4296055|A long-term cell culture system for adult cardiomyopathic hamster cardiac muscle cells has been established. The diseased and control hearts were dissociated into single cell suspension with the modifications of our previous technique using collagenase and hyaluronidase as applied to the dissociation of the adult rat heart. The postperfusion of the diseased heart with Krebs-Ringer phosphate buffer and bovine serum albumin was very helpful in obtaining greater yield of viable diseased muscle cells; the cells were cultured for 4 wk. Approximately 60% of the myocytes from the diseased heart and 85% of the myocytes from the normal heart attached to the substrates and survived throughout the culture period. Approximately 60 to 70% of the cardiac myocytes from the diseased and control hearts were bi- or multinucleated; 30% of the diseased and 80% of the normal myocytes showed rhythmic contractility. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of two kinds of cardiac muscle cells in the diseased cell culture on the basis of their myofibril content: one with scanty myofibrils and another with abundant myofibrils. Myocytes with sparse myofibrils showed certain characteristic features that included autophagic vacuoles, amorphous matrix of fine filamentous texture, scattered strips of myofibrils, and abnormal organization of the Z-line. Cardiac muscle cells with abundant myofibrillar content contained unorganized myofibrils in certain sarcomeres. These studies demonstrate the feasibility of maintaining diseased cardiac muscle cells from adult cardiomyopathic hamsters for at least 4 wk in monolayer culture.
4296333|Epidermal keratinocytes grow in culture to form a stratified squamous epithelium. These cultures contain a replicating as well as a terminally differentiating population and undergo surface desquamation. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) and cholera toxin are usually employed as growth-promoting agents because they reduce the population doubling time; that is, the period required to increase the total cell number twofold. There are three ways in which this reduction in population doubling time could be achieved: (a) the time for one cell cycle or the cell cycle length may be shortened; (b) the number of cells that withdraw from the cell cycle and terminally differentiate may be reduced; or (c) the number of cells that desquamate into the medium over a set period of time may be reduced. We have explored these possibilities in growing cultures of epidermal keratinocytes using a newly developed double-label assay. This assay gives a measure of both cell length and cell cycle withdrawal. Results show that the growth enhancement induced by EGF and cholera toxin can be attributed primarily to a reduction in cell cycle withdrawal and, to a lesser degree, to a reduction in cell cycle length. EGF and cholera toxin have no significant effect on the rate of desquamation. A linear correlation was noted between cell cycle lengths and withdrawal, suggesting an interconnection between the rate of cell renewal and the likelihood of undergoing terminal differentiation.
4296849| Hyaluronic acid accumulation is characteristic of mammary tumor cells, and the amount that accumulates seems to correlate with the degree of malignancy of the producing cells. We have tested directly the relationship between hyaluronic acid accumulation and the replication rate of preneoplastic mammary cells in culture. We used nontumorigenic but immortal CL-S1 mouse mammary cells that were derived from a hyperplastic alveolar nodule. Using a collagen gel culture system, we found clear differences in the growth properties of cells before and after Passages 68 to 70. Late passage cells replicated earlier and faster than early passage cells in collagen and on plastic. The rate of cycling resembled that of tumorigenic mouse mammary cells during the first week of culture. Cells seeded at low densities cycled faster than those seeded at high densities during the second week in culture. Exogenous hyaluronic acid, at 10 to 1000 g/ml, neither enhanced nor inhibited CL-S1 cell growth significantly in collagen, regardless of passage. However, by the third day in collagen, late passage cells produced 7 times more total glycosaminoglycans and 12 times more hyaluronic acid per cell than did early passage cells. Late passage cells also deposited 12 times more labeled hyaluronic acid in the matrix than did early passage cells, on a per-cell basis. After a decline in the deposition of hyaluronic acid in the extracellular matrix, growth ceased. The late passage cells did not grow in soft agar, indicating that they had not become neoplastic spontaneously during passage. However, their accelerated growth rate, coupled with the synthesis and secretion of large amounts of hyaluronic acid into the extracellular matrix, may characterize a distinct step in tumor progression in preneoplastic CL-S1 ceUs. 
4296634|Epidermoid metaplasia in the hamster trachea can be produced by treatment with benzo(a)pyrene (BP) or vitamin A deficiency. To elucidate distinguishing features of the two types of lesions, lectin binding to tissue sections of tracheal explants exhibiting metaplastic lesions was assessed. In squamous metaplasia induced by vitamin A deficiency, Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA), wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), and peanut agglutinin (PNA) showed faint (+) to moderate (++) binding in both basal and suprabasal cells; Concanavalin A (Con A) showed moderate binding (++) to suprabasal cells and no binding in basal cells. In the BP-induced lesions, PNA and WGA bound intensely (++++,+++, respectively) in basal cells and faintly (+) to moderately (++) in suprabasal cells. The staining seemed to be predominant at the periphery of the cells. Further, the intensity of PNA and WGA staining increased significantly after the neuraminidase treatment. DBA and Con A showed faint (+) to moderate (++) binding in the BP-induced metaplasia. The results show that in BP-induced metaplasia, ceDs in the basal region show preferential binding of PNA and WGA.
4296753|The purpose of our experiments was to examine variables affecting early events in the establishment of rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cultures as well as factors regulating long-term RTE cell growth. The experiments showed that when RTE cells were seeded into complete serum-free medium between 13 and 30% of the seeded cells attached. Of the seeded cells, only ~2% entered into DNA synthesis and underwent repeated cell divisions to form colonies containing >20 cells. Coating the dishes with extracellular matrix components had little effect on cell attachment or colony forming efficiency (CFE). However, coating the dishes with fetal bovine serum markedly increased CFE. The media components bovine serum albumin and bovine pituitary extract were shown to be important in promoting cell attachment as well as CFE. Cholera toxin on the other hand had no effect on cell attachment but significantly increased CFE. These and other studies showed that cell attachment and cell proliferation are independently regulated. Studies on long-term culture growth indicated that the number of progeny produced per colony forming unit (CFU) is inversely proportional to the number of CFUs seeded. Inasmuch as the cultures did not become confluent under any of the culture conditions tested and media obtained from high density cultures were shown to be growth inhibitory, these findings suggest that a diffusible growth restraining factor is being produced by the cultures limiting clonal expansion. Experiments showing growth inhibitory effects of media conditioned by high cell density cultures support this interpretation. The putative factor reaches critical concentrations earlier in cultures seeded with high numbers of CFU than in cultures seeded with low numbers of CFU. Because the cultures are known to produce transforming growth factor-beta, this growth regulator probably plays a role in controlling RTE cell proliferation. However, it is likely than other events, such as depletion of growth factors from the media, also are significant in regulating the growth of the cultures.
4296277|Bovine aortic endothelial cells retain the ability to undergo histiotypic morphogenetic interactions in vitro as evidenced by a) the reversible expression of a sprouting cell phenotype and b) the patterned self-association of these sprouting cells into three-dimensional meshworks and tubule-like structures. These morphogenetic events are inhibited by xylosides in a dose-dependent manner. Two types of beta-xylosides (p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside and 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside) and one alpha-xyloside (p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-xylopyranoside) were tested. Beta-xylosides are well characterized acceptors of glycosaminoglycan chains, whereas alpha-xylosides do not function in this capacity and have been extensively used as negative controls when studying the effects of beta-xylosides. Both alpha- and beta-xylosides inhibited endothelial morphogenetic interactions. This inhibition was slowly reversed during the 6- to 7-d period following removal of the xyloside. Inhibition of morphogenetic interactions by xylosides occurred at concentrations (0.5 to 2.0 mM) that had no demonstrable effects on cell proliferation, migration, or adhesion to 2-D plastic or collagen substrata. The xylosides seemed to inhibit cell spreading on a 3-D environment, they also inhibited the incorporation of
4296325|Patterns of somatic embryo development from callus were elucidated in Ipomoea batatas Poir. (sweet potato). Embryos at three stages of development were able to grow into plants. They included embryos arrested at the late torpedo and cotyledonary stages, and an arrested torpedo embryo that resulted from precocious hypocotyl expansion. Early torpedo-stage embryos rooted on reculture but did not form shoots. A diversity of other embryo stages were also produced which upon reculture formed only adventitious embryos and roots. Morphologic variants with similar growth potential were noted among embryos at similar stages of development. Plasticity in somatic embryo developmental patterns led to different forms that were mature enough to produce plants.
4296337|Corneal fibroblasts, also known as keratocytes are surrounded by an extracellular matrix of collagen in vivo. To understand the physiology and pathology of these corneal fibroblasts, it is important to study their interactions with this extracellular matrix. We cultured rabbit corneal fibroblasts on tissue culture plastic dishes or in a hydrated collagen gel and compared the changes in morphology and mitotic activity. Corneal fibroblasts on plastic dishes were flattened and widely spread, whereas those in collagen gel became spindle-shaped with long processes. Examination with an electron microscope revealed that the corneal fibroblasts in collagen gel formed gap junctions with neighboring cells. Gap junctions were hardly ever observed between corneal fibroblasts cultured on plastic dishes. Corneal fibroblasts cultured in a collagen matrix showed much less incorporation of [
4295851|Induction of hepatocyte DNA synthesis in culture by cyproterone acetate (CPA), a potent hepatomitogen in vivo, was studied. Adult rat hepatocytes were grown on collagen gels in primary culture for 3 to 10 d. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) was used as a model inducer to establish appropriate culture conditions. (a) In serum-free medium EGF stimulated a wave of DNA synthesis in 10 to 30% of the hepatocytes. CPA had only a weak effect. (b) Increasing concentrations of newborn bovine serum (NBS) at 5 to 95% progressively inhibited the stimulatory effect of EGF. A similar inhibition was obtained by adding bovine serum albumin; 20% NBS, however, had a slightly stimulatory effect on the induction of DNA synthesis by CPA. (c) Portal rat serum (RS) at concentration of 5 to 95% markedly stimulated DNA synthesis, a plateau being reached between 20 and 95%. EGF had a distinct enhancing effect on DNA synthesis in the presence of 5 and 20% RS but not at 50 and 95%. CPA stimulated DNA synthesis in the presence of 20, 50, and 95% RS in a synergistic way. (d) Mitoses were found after treatment with EGF or with CPA. These results show that CPA can induce DNA synthesis in cultured hepatocytes and that RS contains factors facilitating the response to CPA.
4296690| An increasing number of polypeptide growth factors have been identified that have proven essential in the development of defined cell culture media for mammalian cell culture. The development of defined mammalian cell culture media, in turn, has provided an environment for studying cell lines in an experimentally manageable unit for studying the action of cellular regulators and genes that determine the properties of cells. Evidence that vertebrate growth factors may be present in insects is based on DNA sequences that encode epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor-. However, research on the influence of commercially available vertebrate growth factors is very limited. Although the majority of insect growth-promoting substances studied were isolated directly from insect hemolymph, few of these have been purified to the extent that they could be tested in insect cell, tissue, and endoparasite cultures. Research is needed in both of these areas to aid in developing defined insect culture systems, and to understand better the regulation of postembryonic growth and development in insects. 
20171427| We report the characterization of human osteoblastic cells that were derived from the surface of trabecular bone fragments. After removal of bone marrow cells, the bone lining osteoblastic cells lining the bone surface were obtained by migration and proliferation from the trabecular surface onto a nylon mesh. The isolated population proliferated in culture and exhibited osteoblastic phenotype. Cultured cells show a regular arrangement in vitro and exhibited multiple interconnecting junctions on scanning electron microscopic examination. Immunocytochemical staining showed that the cells produced almost exclusively type I collagen. Bone-surface-derived cells responded to 1-34 human parathyroid hormone by increasing intracellular cyclic AMP. Cell cultures exhibited high alkaline phosphatase activity, which was unaffected by 1,25 (OH) vitamin D. Untreated cells produced high levels of osteocalcin, a bone-specific protein, and they responded to 1,25(OH) vitamin D by increasing osteocalcin synthesis in a dose-dependent manner. Although cells cultured for up to 5 mo. still produced osteocalcin, the response to 1,25(OH)D decreased after multiple passages. This study shows that the bone cell populations isolated from trabecular bone surfaces are enriched in osteoblast precursors and mature osteoblastic cells. 
4296495|TN-368 cells were seeded at
20171480| We have previously reported that Reuber H-35 rat hepatoma cells secrete an autocrine growth-stimulating activity in serum-free culture. To characterize this activity, conditioned serum-free medium from dense H-35 donor cultures was collected in the absence and presence of [S]methionine. A 1:4 dilution of conditioned medium into fresh serum-free medium resulted in an increase in mean H-35 cell numbers per assay dish from 1.59  0.12  10 to 3.35  0.34  10 after 44 h of incubation. Control, unconditioned medium, resulted in significantly (P &lt; 0.05) less growth (2.14  0.41  10 cells per dish). Trypsin digestion eliminated the growth-promoting effect of conditioned medium but had no effect on unconditioned medium. Dialysis did not diminish the growth-promoting activity of conditioned medium. The immunoprecipitate of [S]methionine-containing conditioned medium with antisera against rat serum transferrin contained a dominant radioactive doublet of molecular weight equal to purified rat serum transferrin. A rat transferrin radioimmunoassay was devised and used to quantitate that 29.1  1.2 ng of transferrin was secreted per 10 cells per hour in serum-free culture. Addition of antitransferrin antibody resulted in a significant (P &lt; 0.025) decrease in H-35 cell growth after 48 h. Thus, a portion of the autocrine growth-promoting activity secreted by H-35 cells into serum-free culture is due to transferrin. 
4296952|Over time, rat hepatocytes cultured on collagen lose the capacity to express liver-specific functions. The influence on this degradation process of an alternative substratum-crude membrane fractions prepared from the liver of the same rat strain-was investigated. Freshly isolated rat hepatocytes were cultured in serum-free Williams E medium supplemented with aprotinin, selenium, dexamethasone, and insulin in flasks coated with a mixture of rat liver crude membrane fractions:collagen type I (100:1). The cells adhered firmly, exhibiting minimal spreading and remaining grouped in columns or in cell islands, and retained their liver-specific functions for more than 1 wk. Hepatocytes secreted substantially higher amounts of albumin than cells cultured on collagen-coated dishes, and on Days 1 and 9 in culture the total P-450 content was 72 and 40%, respectively, of that of freshly isolated cells. On Day 6, the 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase and the aldrin epoxidase activities were still more than 50% that of freshly isolated hepatocytes. Exposure to phenobarbital on Days 3 to 6 increased the total cytochrome P-450 content twofold; exposure to 3-methylcholanthrene increased the activity of the corresponding cytochrome P-450 isoforms to 20 times that observed in untreated cultures and 6 times that observed in freshly isolated cells. Thus, given the ease with which they are prepared, the use of crude membrane fractions combined with culture medium supplemented with aprotinin and selenium can facilitate the preparation of reproducible cultures suitable for long-term in vitro pharmacotoxicologic studies using rat hepatocytes.
4296002| Recent studies have determined that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) potentiates the soft agar growth responses of NRK-49F cells to several combinations of transforming growth factors (TGFs). In the current study, two other non-transformed cell lines, NR-6 and AKR-2B, which do not spontaneously form colonies in soft agar, were examined for their soft agar growth responses to FGF. Both the acidic form and basic form of FGF were found to induce the soft agar growth of these cells. In the case of NR-6 cells, the effects of TGF- were also examined. TFG- potentiated the soft agar growth response of NR-6 cells to FGF, but on its own did not induce soft agar growth. Attempts to identify other factors capable of modulating the response of these cells to FGF, led to the finding that both 12-0-tetra-decanoylphorbol-13-acetate and retinoic acid suppress FGF-induced soft agar growth of NR-6 cells and AKR-2B cells. The finding that FGF induces the soft agar growth of both non-transformed cell lines, together with the findings of others that both forms of FGF are angiogenic, lends further support to the suggestion that FGF plays a significant role in the in vivo growth of some, and possibly many, tumors. 
4296429|The acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are a family of mitochondrial flavoenzymes required for fatty acid beta-oxidation and branched-chain amino acid degradation. The hepatic activity of these enzymes, particularly the short-chain acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase, is markedly decreased in riboflavin deficient rats. We now report that the in vivo effects of riboflavin deficiency on the beta-oxidation enzymes of this group are reproduced in FAO rat hepatoma cells cultured in riboflavin-deficient medium. Although it has been long known that hepatic short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity is the most severely affected of the straight-chain specific enzymes in riboflavin deficiency, the mechanism by which its activity is decreased has not been reported. We have used this new cell culture system to characterize further this mechanism. Whole cell extracts from riboflavin-deficient and control cells were subjected to analysis by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electropheresis. The contents of the gels were then electroblotted onto nitrocellulose filters and probed with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase-specific antiserum. The relative abundance of enzyme antigen was estimated autoradiographically. Our findings indicate that short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity changes in parallel with its antigen, suggesting that riboflavin deprivation does not affect the activity of individual enzyme molecules. Further, no evidence of extramitochondrial enzyme precursor was found on the blots, making unlikely a significant block in the mitochondrial uptake process. These findings suggest that changes in short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity in riboflavin deficiency result from either increased synthesis or decreased degradation of the enzyme.
4295746|A serum-free medium (HMRI-2) has been developed for the outgrowth and subculture of epithelial cells from normal adult human ureter and bladder. Medium HMRI-2 consists of Ham's MCDB 152 with double the amounts of the essential amino acids in Stock 1, low Ca
20171564| Three related mouse mammary cell lines were cultured in collagen gels and assayed for growth factor responsiveness and interaction via soluble factors. The CL-S1 cell line is nontumorigenic and grows poorly in collagen gel culture. The +SA and -SA cell lines exhibit different degrees of malignant behavior in vivo and have different growth properties in vitro. In collagen gel culture, +SA growth was stimulated by serum but not by epidermal growth factor (EGF), whereas both serum and EGF were required for optimal growth of -SA cells of early passage number as well as CL-S1 cells. -SA cells of later passage repeatedly exhibited a change so as to no longer require serum while retaining EGF responsiveness. [I]EGF binding analyses indicated that CL-S1 cells bound EGF with less affinity than did -SA cells whereas +SA cells bound almost no ligand. When cell lines were maintained in separate collagen gels but shared the same culture medium, growth of +SA or -SA cells was slightly enhanced in the presence of CL-S1 cells and -SA cell growth was enhanced by the presence of +SA cells. Using the normal rat kidney fibroblast line NRK (clone 49F) as an indicator, serum-containing conditioned media from each cell line and from each pair of cell lines cultured in collagen gels were tested for transforming growth factor (TGF) activity. Both the -SA and CL-S1 lines tested positive for TGF- production and possibly released a TGF- activity. These results suggest mechanisms by which cell populations in and around tumors can modify one another's growth characteristics. 
4296780|To investigate the regulation of epithelial differentiation, normal human epidermal keratinocytes were cultured floating on the surface of culture medium without attachment to a solid substrate. Keratinocytes spread out on the surface of the medium, proliferated and differentiated either into several flat lacy sheets 1 to 3 cells thick (on medium containing 0.15 mM calcium) or formed one single aggregate of cells from 5 to 15 cells in thickness on medium containing 1.15 mM calcium. The cell aggregates demonstrated a pattern of ordered epithelial differentiation. Levels of progressive differentiation resembling the structure of normal human epidermis were identified by light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. Differentiation proceeded from cells at the air side toward cells at the medium side with basal appearing cells on the air side and keratinocytes expressing filaggrin and involucrin on the side toward the medium. These results demonstrate that organized epithelial differentiation can occur in the absence of extracellular matrix. In contrast with other air-liquid interface cultures, epithelial differentiation in the absence of extracellular matrix progresses from air towards medium.
4296273|Normal human keratinocytes isolated from skin and squamous carcinoma cells established from a human tumor (TR146 cell line) both exhibit limited morphologic differentiation when they are grown on conventional plastic dishes. However, when they are seeded on human de-epidermized dermis and cultured at the air-liquid interface, they are able to reform an epithelium having the morphology of the tissue of origin (i.e. skin or squamous carcinoma). The distribution in such reconstructed tissues of differentiation markers such as bullous pemphigoid antigen, 67K keratin, involucrin, membrane-bound transglutaminase, and filaggrin was very similar to their distribution in normal skin and squamous carcinoma specimens, respectively. The degree of differentiation is for both cell types extremely sensitive to culture conditions such as retinoic acid concentration, emersion of the cultures, etc. These results show that subcultured normal or tumoral keratinocytes are able to recover their specific morphogenetic potential when cultured in an environment close to their in vivo situation.
4296916|A simple and highly reproducible method was established for the culturing of adult rat and human hepatocytes as multicellular aggregates (spheroids). Purified rat and human liver parenchymal cells were cultured on nontissue culture (bacteriological) polystyrene petri dishes on a rotating platform. After an overnight incubation, the cells were found to form multicellular aggregates. The aggregates became spheroidal in shape after several days in culture. Histological sections of the spheroids showed an organized structure consisting of squamated cells on the outermost layer and cuboidal cells in the interior. Cellular structures characteristic of hepatocytes in the liver in vivo including bile canaliculi, peroxisomes, Golgi bodies, abundant mitochondria, and rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum were observed with electron microscopy. The spheroids were found to be viable up to the longest time studied of approx. 1 month in culture as demonstrated by their adherence and growth on collagen-coated substratum. The morphological resemblance between hepatocytes cultured as spheroids and the liver in vivo suggests that the spheroids may be a useful in vitro experimental model of the liver. Our simple method should allow hepatocytes to be cultured as spheroids easily in any laboratory equipped for cell culture. Our study here also is the first to report the culturing of human hepatocytes as spheroids.
4295995|A simple method was devised for the establishment of continuous lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCL). Unfractionated mononuclear cells collected from healthy donors were infected in vitro by Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) (strain B95-8) under specific conditions: an immunosuppressive drug, Cyclosporin-A (CS-A, Sandoz), associated with the use of a feeder layer (MRC-5) led to 100% efficiency of LCL establishment. A bank of 400 LCL was set up for completion of genetic studies. Regression and kinetics of virus-induced transformation were monitored and related to donors' EBV immune status. Mean time of LCL establishment and probability of regression among seropositive donors were not linked to any given value titer of antibodies against Viral Capsid Antigen (VCA) or against Epstein-Barr Nuclear Antigen (EBNA). However, when the anti-VCA:anti-EBNA ratio was considered, this parameter seemed to be linked to the kinetics of transformation but not to the probability of regression. Once LCL are established, large quantities of human cells can be produced. The complete cellular DNA is available so that any part of it can be scrutinized. Moreover, some of the phenotypic characteristics of these B cells can be used for a wide range of investigations.
4295842|Tissue culture of human large vessel endothelium is now routine in many laboratories but tissue culture of human microvascular endothelium remains a difficult procedure, preventing study of features of endothelial function that may be peculiar to the microvasculature. This report describes an improved method for tissue culture of human dermal microvascular endothelium derived from foreskin. The method is rapid, reproducible, avoids contamination with nonendothelial cells, and does not require the use of a tumor-conditioned medium. The major modifications over existing techniques are the use of a Percoll density gradient to remove the majority of nonenodthelial cells followed by a simplified weeding procedure that removes residual nonendothelial cells and leaves large numbers of endothelial cells to grow rapidly to confluence. The cells are identified as endothelial by their morphology and by positive immunofluorescence for Factor VIII. Proliferation experiments demonstrate their requirement for an exogenous matrix and for a high concentration of human serum. Whole serum was required as platelet-poor plasma serum had poor growth stimulatory activity. Proliferation could be enhanced by dibutyryl cyclic AMP or endothelial cell growth substance and was maximal with the combination of endothelial cell growth substance and heparin. However, the use of these agents did not remove the requirement for an exogenous matrix. Fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor, nerve growth factor, and thrombin did not increase proliferation.
4296041|A normal rat liver epithelial ceil line, with phenotype characteristics of "oval" cells (WB-F344), was examined for its ability to perform gap-junctional intercellular communication as measured by metabolic cooperation. To test for gap-junctional intercellular communication, 6-thioguanine-sensitive cells were cocultivated with 6-thioguanine-resistant cells. It was found that the recovery of 6-thioguanine-resistant cells depended on the densities of the 6-thioguanine-sensitive cells. Higher densities of 6-thioguanine-sensitive cells reduced the recovery of 6-thioguanine-resistant cells. These observations demonstrate that rat liver epithelial cells could metabolically cooperate, implying they could perform gap-junctional intercellular communication. Two tumor-promoting organochlorine pesticides, aldrin and dieldrin, were potent inhibitors of metabolic cooperation for these cells, but 12-0-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate and teleocidin, known mouse skin tumor promoters, were not significantly effective in inhibiting metabolic cooperation. The results suggest that these cells might provide the basis for an in vitro assay specifically to study liver tumor promoters.
4296013|Nine human-human hybridoma clones, secreting monoclonal antibodies reactive with nucleic acids, were generated by fusing with lymphocytes of lung cancer or systemic lupus erythematosus patients. These hybridoma antibodies were classified into 5 types, in terms of reactivities with DNA, RNA, various synthetic nucleic acids and cardiolipin. Hybridoma clone SU-1 secreted antibody reacting with dsDNA, ssDNA and RNA (type I). Clone HL-321 did not react with these, but with poly (dT), poly (I) and poly (G) (type II). Clone HL-349 was reactive with almost all nucleic acids tested and also with cardiolipin (type III). Clones HF-4, HF-7, HB-7 and HL-259 reacted with ssDNA, poly (A), poly (G) and cardiolipin, but not with RNA (type IV). HB-5 and SH-9 antibodies were reactive only with poly (dT) (type V).
4296494|A simple method to isolate and culture liver pigment cells from Rana esculenta L. is described which utilizes a pronase digestion of perfused liver, followed by sedimentation on a Ficoll gradient. A first characterization of isolated and cultured cells is also reported. They show both positivity for nonspecific esterases, and phagocytosis ability, like the cells of phagocytic lineage. Furthermore, after stimulation with a phorbol ester, these cells generate superoxide anions. At phase contrast microscope, liver pigment cells present variability in size, morphology, and in their content of dark-brown granules. Inasmuch as a cell extract obtained from cultured cells exhibits a specific protein band with dopa-oxidase activity, when run on nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, liver pigment cells from Rana esculenta L. should not be considered as melanophages, but as cells that can actively synthesize melanin. The method presented here seems to be useful to more directly investigate this extra-cutaneous melanin-containing cell system and to clarify its physiologic relevance.
4295921|Cultures generated from tissues consisting of multiple types of cells are often heterogeneous. Unless the cell type of interest has or can be given some selective growth advantage it may be overgrown by other cells. While developing techniques for the tissue culture of microvascular endothelial cells we evaluated an electrosurgical generator (diathermy) to selectively kill nonendothelial cells. Primary cell cultures were observed at x100 magnification under phase contrast microscopy and a needle electrode apposed to the cell to be destroyed. A return electrode was constructed by placing a sterile clip in contact with the culture medium. The diathermy power setting controlled the area of lysis. Use of this technique allowed weeding of unwanted cells without damage to endothelial cells, which were able to grow to confluence in pure culture.
4296878|Epithelial cells proliferate, forming organized tissues, when positioned in the lumen of a thin-walled, transparent, elongated cylindrical, cystlike culture chamber. The closed chamber, 2.5 mm in diameter and 25 mm long, bathed in medium, incubated with continuous gentle agitation, enables the inoculum to exchange metabolites including oxygen by diffusion across the thin, nylon filament-reinforced collagen membrane wall of the chamber. After periods of culture of a week or more, using inocula derived from urothelium, the inner surface of the cystic chamber is lined by a stratified epithelium. Proliferation of cells is seen in the basal zone, which is attached to the collagen substrate. The development of the model is briefly described. Some of the applications of the procedure are illustrated using cell lines, chick embryo tissues, and clinical tissues. Implications of the procedure are considered for studying categories of tissue biology, e.g., problems of aging, neoplasia, and toxicology.
4296199|A method is described for the quantitative analysis of the nerve-growth-promoting activity of biological molecules in tissue culture. The criteria used for the evaluation of this activity is based on the neurite length as well as the total number of neurites produced by the explant of whole dorsal root ganglia from 12-d-old chick embryos. A nerve growth index (NGI) is given to each ganglion during each of a 5-d culture period. The NGI is defined as the product of average neurite length in millimeters and the total number of neurites. We report that with increasing concentrations of fetal bovine serum, there was a proportional increase in NGI due to increased neurite density while the neurite length was not greatly affected. The NGI of several proteins with known nerve growth promoting activity, namely nerve growth factor, insulin, transferrin, and fibronectin were investigated for their activity and compared with that of fetal bovine serum.
4295850|Elicitation of sesquiterpenoid aldehyde phytoalexins in Gossypium arboreum cell suspension cultures was confirmed by thin layer chromatography, high performance reverse phase liquid chromatography, and an aniline-reaction assay after inoculation with heat-treated conidia of Verticillium dahliae. A 2.3x mean increase in total terpenoids was observed. Component phytoalexins varied, with either hemigossypol and gossypol being detected or the O-methylated terpenoids hemigossypol-6-methyl ether and related compounds. Long-term Gossypium suspension cultures were mixoploid with an increase in chromosome number and mean DNA content. Addition of V. dahliae elicitor(s) to the medium for embryo-proliferating callus of G. hirsutum inhibited growth and embryo production with a linear correlation (r = -0.87; P <0.01) between the elicitor concentration and the number of embryos. Addition of
4296461|The establishment, growth, and characterization of two new continuously growing human ovarian cancer cell lines (UWOV1 and UWOV2) as well as a subline (UWOV2 Sf) grown in chemically defined, serum-free medium are described. The cell lines were derived from ascitic tumors of two patients suffering from cystadenocarcinomas of the ovary. Both UWOV1 and UWOV2 lines grow in anchorage-dependent fashion as monolayers, whereas UWOV2 (Sf) forms multilayered domelike structures. Cytogenetic studies revealed nonrandom abnormalities involving chromosomes 1 and 11 in all three cell lines. Secretion of soluble collagen was detected in all three cell lines. In addition, UWOV2 (Sf) produces and secretes large amounts of extracellular matrix material with an ordered fibrillar structure which may function as an attachment factor for the serum-free cells. These cell lines seem to be useful for further studies of the biology of human ovarian cancer.
4296318|Previous investigations have demonstrated specific receptors and associated mitogenic actions for insulin and insulinlike growth factors I and II (IGF-I and II) in postnatal bovine aortic smooth muscle. Using fetal tissue we have observed different patterns of binding and action for these peptides. Smooth muscle cells isolated from near-term fetal bovine aortae were studied in early passage. Specific receptors for both IGF-I and IGF-II were identified. Specific binding averaged
20171462|Clonal populations were isolated from the mouse mammary cell line, COMMA-D, by transfection with a dominant-selectable gene, pSV2Neo, which confers resistance to the antibiotic, G418. Seven of twenty-four clones isolated retained the ability of the parental line to repopulate cleared mammary fat pads in vivo as ductal-alveolar hyperplasias. Two sublines designated CDNR2 and CDNR4 retained hyperplastic growth potential after multiple passages in vitro with low incidence of tumor formation. A third subpopulation, CDNR1, contained a single integration site for the pSV2Neo plasmid indicating a bonafide clonal origin for this subline. CDNR1 cells displayed heterogeneous growth phenotypes in vivo including hyperplasia, adenocarcinoma, and bone formation. Functional differentiation of CDNR1 cells organized as alveolarlike structures in vivo or on floating collagen gels in vitro was observed as determined by immunoperoxidase staining for the milk-specific protein, casein. Overall, the results indicate that a subset of cells from the COMMA-D cell line may be functionally analogous to stem cells existing in the mammary gland.
4296246|The potential usefulness of a zwitterionic detergent, 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propane sulfonate (CHAPS), in the stabilization of acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) was examined. Among several detergents, CHAPS was found to be not only non-cytotoxic but also most useful in handling the diluted preparations of FGFs. The advantages are as follows: 1) at lower concentrations than 0.01% CHAPS did not affect growth factor activity of calf serum (CS) and the growth rate of BALB/c 3T3 cells. The primary culture of rat prostate epithelium and colony formation of NRK-49F cells were hardly influenced by CHAPS lower than 0.003%; 2) the loss of FGFs that usually occurs due to their adherence to the surface of storage containers was effectively prevented by inclusion of 0.1% CHAPS; 3) the recovery of FGFs after storage or dialysis was significantly enhanced by inclusion of 0.1% CHAPS; 4) CHAPS at lower concentrations than 0.1% does not interfere with amino acid analysis, except that Thr may be misled only when the ratio of protein/CHAPS is low; 5) amino acid sequence analysis was hardly disturbed by CHAPS up to 0.5%. These results indicate that CHAPS is useful as a stabilizing agent for various kinds of polypeptides capable of showing biological activity at a low concentration.
4296597|Human platelet-derived transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is a cell-type specific promotor of proteoglycan synthesis in human adult arterial cells. Cultured human adult arterial smooth muscle cells synthesized chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, and heparan sulfate proteoglycans, and the percent composition of these three proteoglycan subclasses varied to some extent from cell strain to cell strain. However, TGF-beta consistently stimulated the synthesis of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. Both chondroitin 4- and chondroitin 6-sulfate were stimulated by TGF-beta to the same extent. TGF-beta had no stimulatory effect on either class of
4296450|1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin
4296334|Although several proteases have been identified in homogenates of cultured epithelial cells of the eye lens and in lens tissues, there is little information regarding intracellular protein degradation in intact lens cells in vitro. Cultured lens cells may be useful in the study of intracellular protein degradation in the lens, a tissue with a wide range of protein half-lives. This is of interest because alterations in protein turnover in the lens have been implicated in cataract formation. This study examines intracellular protein degradation in cultured bovine lens epithelial cells (BLEC). Cell cultures were incubated with radiolabeled leucine to label intracellular proteins. Protein degradation was measured by monitoring the release of trichloroacetic-acid-soluble radioactivity into the culture medium. The average half-life of long-lived proteins (half-life > 50 h) was typically about 57 h in serum-supplemented medium. Average rates of degradation of long-lived proteins increased by up to 73% when fetal bovine serum was withdrawn from the culture medium. Serum had no effect on the degradation of short-lived proteins (half-life < 10 h). Degradation of long-lived proteins in the presence and absence of serum was further studied in cultured BLEC from population doubling level (PDL) 2 to 43. Average half-life of proteins in serum-supplemented medium was 52 to 58 h and did not vary significantly as a function of PDL. Degradation rates in serum-free medium increased approximately twofold up to PDL 7, but returned by PDL 25 to original levels, which were maintained through PDL 43.
4296739|Normal rat kidney proximal tubule epithelial cell cultures were obtained by collagenase digestion of cortex and studied for 10 days. To assess the purity of the seeding suspension, we histochemically demonstrated
4295963|A method is described for the isolation of large numbers of viable disaggregated cells from human tissues. This method combined the mechanical action of a Stomacher Model 80 Lab Blender, 0.1 mg/ml trypsin or 0.5 mg/ml collagenase, and 0.1 mM [ethylene bis(oxyethylenenitrolo)]-tetraacetic acid (EGTA). Tissue (0.2 to 1.0 g) obtained from human fetal intestine, kidney, liver, lung, and skin were separately minced into approximately
4296511|Endothelial cells bind, process, and transport bioactive molecules and thus provide an interactive interface between the plasma and adjacent tissues. Various hormones and factors induce endothelial cells to synthesize and secrete interactive factors. However, study of endothelial cell synthesis, processing, and transport of these bioactive molecules has been impeded because of the serum requirement for cell growth. Many of these bioactive molecules are derived from or are modified by serum components. We have developed a short-term culture system that supports sequential subculturing of endothelial cells in a serum-free culture medium on a defined extracellular matrix. The cells have a doubling rate of 33 h and the total cell number can be expanded more than 800-fold. Expression of specific markers; factor VIII related antigen-von Willebrand factor, Wiebel-Palade bodies, a cobblestone appearance of confluent cell monolayers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme activity confirm the normal morphologic integrity and biochemical function of these cultures. Using this defined serum-free medium, we have grown human endothelial cell monolayers on porous polycarbonate membrane inserts, thereby creating an upper and a lower chamber that models the vascular architecture and demonstrates an inverse relationship between transport and molecular weight. By eliminating serum components, this model system should facilitate the study of endothelial cell binding, metabolism, and transport of bioactive molecules and may contribute to a better understanding of the blood-tissue interface.
20171585|Five spontaneous canine mammary tumors were cultured in vitro and cell lines were established. The tumors included three frozen carcinomas, fine-needle aspirate from one fresh carcinoma, and one fresh atypical benign mixed tumor. The cell lines have so far been cultured for about 2 yr and passaged between 45 and 200 times. The cell lines expressed different types of intermediate filaments, including a heterogenous pattern. In some cases no intermediate filaments were expressed. Ultrastructure studies showed epithelial cells and cells intermediate between epithelial and myoepithelial types. Retrovirus associated A-particles were found in two carcinomas. The mixed mammary tumor cell line formed ductlike structures in collagen substrate. The cell lines grew when inoculated s.c. into male nude mice. Two carcinomas caused lymph node metastases in two mice and another carcinoma single lung metastases in one tested mouse. DNA hypodiploidy, studied by flow cytometry, in one of the primary carcinoma was retained in vitro, and this cell line showed polyploidy during later passages. The other cell lines had a more unstable DNA profile, although a tendency for polyploidy was found. These findings were also illustrated in chromosome studies.
4296390|Human umbilical vein endothelial cells at confluence were subjected to steady shear flow. The effect of flow on the synthesis of fibronectin, its release into the medium, and incorporation into the extracellular matrix were investigated. The total content of fibronectin in endothelial cells exposed to flow was found to be lower than that in static controls after periods of 12 to 48 h. In the presence of cycloheximide there was no difference in the fibronectin content of sheared and unsheared cells. Our results suggest that the synthesis of fibronectin is inhibited by the flow-induced perturbation of endothelial cells.
4295971|Endogenous chicken muscle lectin isolated by lactose affinity chromatography inhibits myoblast fusion. Similar lectins isolated from embryonic brain, heart, and liver and from adult intestine exhibit the same ability. Elevated levels of any of these lectins canceled the inhibitory effect. Peanut agglutinin isolated by the same procedure had no effect at any concentration tested. Concanavalin A affected fusion only at high concentrations. Muscle lectin was shown to agglutinate myoblasts in microtiter plates, whereas exogenous addition in culture inhibited alignment as seen by time lapse microcinematography. Cell-to-cell communication between lectin-treated cells was shown by nucleotide exchange, and lectin-coated culture dishes did not affect cell attachment. Our evidence shows a lack of specificity to muscle, but suggests an aggregating capacity between cells, or possibly an interaction between the cell membrane and the extracellular matrix.
4295868|Neonatal rat heart cells cultivated in either of two different media which varied only in their serum supplements were transferred to chemically defined medium (Ham's F10) for 24 h before measuring a variety of parameters. The 24-h period of exposure to chemically defined medium was not sufficient to reverse the effects imposed on the cells by the serum used in the first phase of growth. The cells differed in rate and duration of action potentials and contractions. The initial serum composition affected the response of the cells to calcium deficiency. Studies involving the effects of pharmaceutical reagents such as isoproterenol were also influenced by the serum. In attempting to determine the cause and possible mechanism, it was found that mitochondrial membrane permeability for nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) was unchanged. Although the serum supplements differed in fatty acid composition, the fatty acid profiles of the cell phospholipids were relatively constant. We conclude that (a) the function of the cells is affected by the growth environment, particularly serum; (b) that a short exposure to a uniform chemically defined medium is not sufficient to reverse these effects; and (c) that the differences in effects are not the result of changes in the fatty acid composition of the whole cell phospholipids nor in mitochondrial membrane permeability as measured by NBT.
4296240|The process of phagocytosis in cultured human retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells was observed after more than 2 h of incubation with human outer segments and latex microspheres. Fingerlike microvilli were attached to outer segments and entwined around both its ends. The microvilli enveloped the outer segment and cut into the membranous structure, and the same process as that seen in in vivo shedding was observed. The looplike disk membranes and the whole of the outer segment were ingested into the cytoplasm and degraded by the lysosome. Latex microspheres were also ingested into the cytoplasm so as to be enveloped in many fingerlike microvilli. Microfilaments were concentrated in the vicinity of latex microspheres and outer segments, and latex microspheres were placed between two microtubules. Furthermore, when latex microspheres and outer segments were ingested into the cytoplasm, the dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) contained materials of high electron density and attached ribosomes increased. The rER of the cultured human RPE cells seemed to show a high level of protein synthesis during the phagocytic process. It was observed that cytoskeletons, such as microfilaments and microtubules, and lysosomes had important functions in the phagocytic process, and that there were basically no differences among the objects phagocytized by the cultured RPE cells.
4295897| We have studied the capacity of a number of phosphate compounds to act in the double role as a phosphate source and a detoxifier of ferric chloride hydroxo compounds, i.e. as Fe(III) chelators. The tested compounds were: orthophosphate, trimetaphosphate, -glycerophosphate, -glycerophosphate, phytic acid, and phosphorylcholine; the test organism the ciliate protozoon Tetrahymena thermophila, an animal cell; and the nutrient medium was synthetic, consisting solely of low-molecular-weight compounds. We assessed growth rates of cells in two experimental series. First, phosphate-starved cells were exposed to the tested phosphate compound as the only phosphate source and the ferric chloride concentrations were varied stepwise from 0 to 1000 M. Second, we offered the cells orthophosphate as a phosphate source and selected phosphate compounds as chelators. The cell growth results allow the following conclusions: orthophosphate, trimetaphosphate, -glycerophosphate, and -glycerophosphate are excellent phosphate sources; trimetaphosphate, -glycerophosphate, -glycerophosphate, and phytic acid are excellent Fe(III) chelators; of the tested compounds trimetaphosphate, a-glycerophosphate, and -glycerophosphate are excellent in the double role as a phosphate source and a ferric chloride hydroxo detoxifier, i.e. as a Fe(III) chelator. 
4296561|Growth factors are known to play important roles in cellular proliferation and differentiation. However, little information is available concerning their roles in the earliest stages of mammalian development. The effect of physiologic levels of insulin, insulinlike growth factor-1, and insulinlike growth factor II (IGF-I and -II) on DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis in preimplantation stages of the mouse are described in this study. Quantitative studies of the incorporation of labeled thymidine, uridine, and methionine into trichloroacetic acid-insoluble material by different developmental stages of preimplantation mouse embryos labeled in vitro, indicate that physiologic levels of insulin stimulated DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis with significant effects observed first at the morula stage of development. In contrast, neither IGF-I nor IGF-II stimulated DNA, RNA, or protein synthesis to a significant degree under the same experimental conditions. These results suggest a functional role for insulin at the earliest stages of mammalian embryogenesis.
4295738|The purpose of this study was to compare the development of organotypic cultures in defined medium versus nutrient containing serum and embryo extract (EE). Explant cultures of cerebellum with or without locus ceruleus were grown in the Maximow system and monitored in the living state and with histological stains. Thinner explants, fibronectin and a more frequent feeding schedule were required to overcome the growth differences encountered using a defined medium. The final medium formulation was arrived at by evaluation of living cultures and consisted of a basal medium (Dulbecco's minimal essential medium), a number of hormones and other supplements, and a final glucose concentration of 750 mg %. Using a Golgi stain and histofluorescence, it was shown that the three major types of neurons - Purkinje, deep nuclear, and locus ceruleus - developed similarly in the defined medium and in serum-EE cultures. Myelination occurred in virtually all cerebellar cultures in defined medium and the onset was earlier than in serum-EE cultures. These results indicate that differentiation of oligodendroglia and maturation of neurons occur in a defined medium. Elimination of thyroid hormone delayed the maturation of the cultures, both neurons and myelin, by 3-4 days.
4296781|To study the regulation of human salivary-type gene expression we developed cell culture systems to support the growth and serial cultivation of salivary gland epithelial and fibroblastic cell types. We have established 22 independent salivary gland epithelial cell strains from parotid or submandibular glands of human or macaque origin. Nineteen strains were derived from normal tissues and three from human parotid gland tumors. Both the normal and the tumor-derived salivary gland epithelial cells could be serially cultivated with the aid of a 3T3 fibroblast feeder layer in a mixture of Ham's F12 and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's media supplemented with fetal bovine serum, calcium, cholera toxin, hydrocortisone, insulin, and epidermal growth factor. Salivary gland epithelial cells cultured under these conditions continued to express the genes for at least two acinar-cell-specific markers at early passages. Amylase enzyme activity was detected in conditioned media from cultured rhesus parotid epithelial cells as late as Passage 5. Proline-rich-protein-specific RNAs were detected in primary cultures of both rhesus and human parotid epithelial cells. Neither amylase enzyme activity nor PRP-specific RNAs were detected in fibroblasts isolated from the same tissues. In addition, salivary gland epithelial cells cultured under our conditions retain the capacity to undergo dramatic morphologic changes in response to different substrata. The cultured salivary gland epithelial cells we have established will be important tools for the study of salivary gland differentiation and the tissue-specific regulation of salivary-type gene expression.
4296751|Vascular smooth muscle cells were isolated from the aortas of spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats by use of the explant method on collagen gels. Clonal cell lines derived from these enriched populations possessed ultrastructural characteristics of vascular smooth muscle cells in culture; they grew in hill and valley configuration, immunostained with the muscle actin antibody HHF35, and failed to react with von Willebrand Factor VIII antibody. Fourteen clonal cell lines were characterized for growth and ligand binding characteristics. Large variations in growth rate and cell density at saturation were exhibited by clones of both strains. Similar variability was noted for specific binding of endothelial 1 and
4296737|Smooth muscle cell proliferation is an important feature of atherogenesis. Some works have hypothesized that a transformation of smooth muscle cells could arise during this pathological process. The present paper describes two spontaneously transformed cell lines of arterial smooth muscle cells (SMC) established from aortic media of adult rat. The cell lines have been designated V6 and V8; some of their morphologic, growth, and metabolic characteristics are described and compared to their parent cells. The two cell lines appeared distinct by their morphology and by their degree of transformation. V6 cells appeared as elongated spindle-shaped cells whereas V8 cells were spread cells with a cobblestone pattern. Karyotypes of both cell lines showed a high polyploidy level. V6 and V8 cell lines were immortalized and showed growth characteristics of transformed cells: low requirement of serum to grow, ability to form colonies in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice; V8 cells presented a higher malignancy than V6 cells. Both V6 and V8 cells exhibited characteristics of cultured arterial SMC: ultrastructure, alpha actin expression at the protein and mRNA level, prostacyclin production. The remarkably different morphologies of the V6 and V8 lines and their transformed phenotype suggest that these cell lines could be useful models to study SMC differentiation and proliferation with respect to atherosclerotic or hypertensive vascular diseases.
4296097|Inasmuch as it is known that the toxicity of anesthetic agents is potentiated by hypoxia and that the reductive metabolism of these agents results in the formation of lipid hydroperoxides, we investigated the toxicity of hydroperoxides under low-oxygen concentrations. We found that hypoxia exacerbates the toxicity of t-butyl hydroperoxide, shifting the dose-response curve of t-butyl hydroperoxide vs. lysis of hepatocytes approximately an order of magnitude to the left. Furthermore, although at the end of a 4-h exposure to
4295888|The mechanism of action of retinoid in reversing keratinization in hamster trachea is yet unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine if cellular retinoic acid binding protein (CRABP) is present in tracheal epithelium following incubation in serum-free, vitamin A-deficient culture medium for 10 days, and if the effectiveness of a retinoid in reversing keratinization in organ culture is correlated with its ability to compete for CRABP sites. The cytosol prepared from tracheal cultures contained CRABP at a concentration of 2.61 pmoles per mg protein. Of the four retinoids with carboxyl end group selected for the study, two of the biological active retinoids competed for the CRABP sites. However, no correlation was observed between the biological activity of the inactive retinoids and their ability to associate with the CRABP sites. These results indicate that even though the action of retinoid may be mediated by retinoid binding protein, it cannot be used as a sole predicator of retinoid response in hamster trachea.
4296583|Distinct, sequential events occurring during the destruction and simultaneous regrowth of human arterial smooth muscle cell (SMC) cultures infected with cytomegalovirus (CMV, AD169 strain) were characterized. The events were influenced by the typical phenotypic diversity reflecting relative states of differentiation of the SMC cultures. Progenitors of regeneration were a surviving population of small, undifferentiated or relatively undifferentiated SMCs. As these cells reached confluence focally, the number of cells reactive with antismooth muscle serum, i.e. differentiating, increased, and in some postconfluent foci the organization of SMCs resembled the topography of uninfected cultures. Thus, infected SMC cultures had a limited capacity to repopulate, to organize typically, and to differentiate. However, continuing cytopathic effects gradually destroyed much of the regrowth, and a relatively large, nondividing SMC with prominent cytoplasmic filaments, similar to SMCs in terminal, uninfected cultures, predominated. Infected cultures consisting overwhelmingly of the large terminal phenotype were far less productive of infectious CMV than cultures populated by SMCs with continuing capacity to divide. Gradually, cultures consisting of the terminal phenotype deteriorated as a result of sporadic cytopathic effects of CMV and an effect resembling "senescent" degeneration in uninfected, nondividing cultures in late passage. The infected, terminal phenotype could be a latent or persistent source of CMV antigen or nucleic acid-positive cells detected by different investigators in normal and in atheromatous, human tissue, assuming that it exists and survives for an extended period in vivo after infection of vascular SMC.
4295731|A culture model is described for the study of acetaldehyde (
20171513| Primary cultures of embryonic chick pectoral skeletal muscle were used to study calcium regulation of myoblast fusion to form multinucleated myotubes. Using atomic absorption spectrometry to measure total cellular calcium and the Ca-exchange method to determine free cellular Ca, our data suggest that only the free cellular calcium changes significantly during development under conditions permissive for myotube formation (0.9 mM external Ca). Increases in calcium uptake occurred before and toward the end of the period of fusion with the amount approximating 2 to 4 pmol per cell in mass cultures. If the medium [Ca] is decreased to 0.04 mM, as determined with a calcium electrode, a fusion-block is produced and free cell Ca decreased 5- to 10-fold. Removal of the fusion-block by increasing medium [Ca] results in a release of the fusion-block and an increase in cellular Ca to approximately 1 pmol per cell during fusion, and higher thereafter. Cation ionophore A23187 produced transient increases in cellular calcium and stimulated myoblast fusion and the final extent of myotube formation only when added at the onset of culture. Results suggest that transient increased calcium uptake alone is insufficient for fusion because critical cellular content in conjunction with permissive amounts of medium [Ca] must exist. The latter suggests further that cell surface Ca was also critical. 
4295869| Endothelial cells from autopsy and biopsy specimens from a variety of adult human vascular tissue were harvested by collagenase treatment and gentle swabbing of the lumenal surface. Nutrient medium MCDB 107 containing a partially purified brain-derived growth factor (5 g/ml), epidermal growth factor (10 ng/ml) and only 2% (v/v) fetal bovine serum supported clonal and long-term serial culture (17.6 to 26.1 cumulative population doublings) of endothelial cells from vena cava, thoracic aorta and tibial arteries at a 70% rate of success. Cumulative doublings of the cell population from eight cultures were inversely proportional to age of donor of the vascular tissue from which cells were isolated. Heparin had an enhancing effect on cell growth that varied with cell strain. Prostacyclin production of human adult endothelial cell cultures was stimulated by arachidonate and thrombin by 17 to 20 and 2 to 3-fold respectively. Endogenous and stimulated rates of prostacyclin production by human adult endothelial cells were 2 to 3 times that of human adult smooth muscle cells and 20 to 30 times that of human fibroblasts. 
4296887|Polymorphic DNA markers were used to identify eight sublines derived from HeLa. Using five highly polymorphic minisatellite DNA probes, these cell lines were distinguished and classified into six groups by Southern blot analysis. Polymorphic DNA markers, therefore, can provide a useful tool for monitoring genetic changes of a cell line during culture and for distinguishing sublines derived from the same origin.
4296039| Three new continuous cell lines were established from two species of marine fishes economically important in Asia. Perch (Lateolabrax japonicus) heart (PH), perch liver (PL), and grouper (Epinephelus amblycephalus) kidney (GK) lines were established in Eagle's minimum essential medium with 10% fetal bovine serum and have been subcultured over 120 times. The optimum growth temperature was 25 C for the PK and GK lines and 30 C for the PH line. The modal chromosome numbers for each cell line are: PH (49), PK (50), and GK (65). None of the lines was susceptible to the rhabdovirus infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) or channel catfish herpesvirus (CCV); however, all three cell lines were susceptible to a variety of fish birnaviruses, including infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV), the EVE eel virus, and newly isolated birnaviruses from a variety of fish and shellfish in Taiwan. 
4296227|Several SV40 transformed REF52 cell lines were found to accumulate 5 to 10 times more cholesteryl esters compared to their parent line REF52 when cultured in 10% serum. Under this culture condition, the cholesteryl ester to phospholipid ratio was 0.4:1 and 2.0:1 to 3.8:1 for normal and SV40 transformed cells, respectively. The mechanism underlying cholesteryl ester accumulation in SV40 transformed lines was investigated. We found that 1) the rate of the de novo cholesterol and cholesteryl ester synthesis was roughly equal in normal and transformed derivatives; 2) the accumulation of cholesteryl esters in the transformants would not occur when cultured in lipoprotein-deficient medium and reappeared upon their return to low density lipoprotein-containing medium; 3) the transformants expressed twice as many low density lipoprotein receptors and were less sensitive to LDL-induced receptor down regulation compared to their nontransformed counterparts. The results indicate that SV40 transformed lines exhibited an accelerated lipid uptake from the culture medium due to an altered regulation of low density lipoprotein receptor activity.
4296125|Protoplasts were isolated from oat (Avena sativa L.) leaves by the combination of highly purified preparations of pectin lyase, xylanase, and cellulase C
4296345|The growth-promoting substances in a non-dialyzable extract of Synechococcus elongatus var. on RPMI 8226 cells (a human myeloma cell line) were separated by gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography. By gel filtration with Sepharose 4B, the dialyzate was separated into two fractions. One fraction was green-colored (P-1) and the other was blue-colored (P-2). The P-2 fraction had a higher growth-promoting activity than P-1. By ion exchange chromatography, the P-2 fraction was separated into two blue-colored fractions of phycocyanin and allophycocyanin. Both biliproteins promoted the growth of RPMI 8226 cells; however, allophycocyanin was more active than phycocyanin.
4296813|Rat aortic endothelial cells were found to exhibit clonal variations in response to EGF stimulation in cell growth and prostacyclin synthesis. EGF-induced growth and prostacyclin synthesis appeared to be regulated in a coordinated manner in that a clone with a higher response to EGF growth stimulation also exhibited a higher response to EGF-stimulated prostacyclin synthesis. This observation implys a possible involvement of prostacyclin synthesis in some of the biological effects of EGF on vascular endothelial cells.
4295866|Human thyroid cells were grown and subcultured in vitro to examine their responses to known hormones and growth factors, and to serum. The cells were obtained from surgical specimens and were either neoplastic or nonneoplastic. The effects of culture conditions on cell growth were measured by changes in cell numbers and by stimulation of
4296300|The effect of hydrocortisone (HC) in modulating glucocorticoid receptors (GR) and sodiumpotassium adenosine triphosphatase (Na-K ATPase) activity was studied in primary cultures of immunoisolated murine proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTEC). Utilizing monoclonal antibody against stage-specific embryonic antigen-1, a homogeneous population of PTEC was obtained in high yield. The cells were cultured to confluence and further treated for 48 h in serum-free growth medium containing no HC (control); 50 nM HC; or 50 nM HC plus 20 nM of the antiglucocorticoid, RU 38486. PTEC treated with 50 nM HC had 56% of GR binding and 160% Na-K ATPase activity as compared to controls (P < 0.01). GR binding was abolished by incubation in RU 38486 whereas Na-K ATPase fell below control values (P < 0.05). Brief incubations of HC-treated PTEC with 0.5 mM ouabain resulted in a fall in GR binding without a change in Na-K ATPase activity. These data indicate that in PTEC, HC regulates GR binding and they suggest that stimulation of Na-K ATPase activity is a direct biological response to this receptor-hormone interaction. Thus, primary cultures of immunoaffinity-isolated PTEC offer a good model system for investigating the molecular basis underlying the regulation of GR binding and postreceptor events influenced by glucocorticoids.
4296285|Cultures of human diploid fibroblasts are heterogeneous in that a subpopulation interacts via high-affinity receptors with the globular head regions of the C1q complement protein. Growth and synthetic properties of these cells are characteristic of cells residing in healing wounds and inflammatory lesions. At these sites, fibroblasts are exposed to regulatory molecules such as complement components and factors released from blood platelets. We assessed the effects of native complement proteins and platelet-derived factors on proportions and phenotypic stability of high-affinity and low-affinity receptor cells generated from explants of adult and embryonic connective tissue, using radioligand binding assays and immunofluorescence analysis by flow cytometry. Fibroblasts expressing high-affinity C1q receptors could be generated from explants only when factors from platelets were present in the medium; native complement proteins were not essential. High-affinity receptor cells could be generated only from tissue; they could not be generated by incubating cultures of the low-affinity receptor phenotype in medium containing platelet-derived factors. High-affinity receptor cells, once established from explants in the presence of platelet-derived factors, persisted through many replications in the absence of platelets. We obtained the same fibroblast phenotypes from embryonic skin as from adult gingiva, but the proportion of high-affinity receptor cells from skin was much greater. We conclude that factors derived from platelets are essential for generating cultures containing fibroblasts expressing high-affinity C1q receptors, but not for their maintenance. High-affinity receptor cells may comprise a rapidly dividing subpopulation giving rise only to like progeny or to other, more differentiated cells.
4296938|Growth and differentiation of cells derived from the embryonic palate are critically dependent on the intracellular cAMP-mediated signal transduction pathway. Human embryonic palate mesenchymal (HEPM) cells have been widely used to examine the effect of teratogens on palatal tissue growth and differentiation, as well as a prescreen for environmental teratogens. This study examined responsiveness of HEPM cells to agents known to stimulate adenylate cyclase, characterized cAMP-dependent protein kinases (cAMP-dPK) (EC 2.7.1.37) and investigated to what extent HEPM cells reveal adaptational responses to cAMP at the level of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. HEPM cells exhibited a total cell cycle transit time of approximately 22 h and responded maximally, when confluent, to prostacyclin (PGI
4295801|Sodium butyrate causes proliferation arrest with a G2 (4C) DNA content and induces formation of tetraploid cells upon removal of the inhibitor, in rat 3Y1 diploid fibroblasts. We isolated tetraploid clones from the butyrate-treated 3Y1 cells with high efficiency; among 21 clones randomly isolated, 5 were pure diploid, 7 were mainly tetraploid with a small contaminating diploid population, and 7 were pure tetraploid. Among the pure tetraploid clones, two showed doubled chromosome numbers with slightly broader distributions than that seen in parental 3Y1 cells. Butyrate further induced polyploid formation in the tetraploid cells thus produced, but octaploid cells that resulted could not be maintained for prolonged cultivation. We found no difference between the tetraploid and the (parental and parallel isolated) diploid clones in terms of colony-forming ability, proliferation rate, and sensitivity to density-dependent inhibition of proliferation. These results suggest that doubling of chromosome number by itself does not cause a change in proliferation property. The tetraploid clones had lower average saturation densities possibly due to enlargement of cell size represented by higher cellular protein content.
4296284|Alteration of uninfected erythrocytes from Plasmodium (the malaria parasite)-infected blood remained an open question. In this study we compared the in vivo fatty acid compositions of control and uninfected monkey erythrocytes. A large (40%) increase in the linoleic acid level was observed, which was recovered mostly in neutral lipids. An in vitro system was developed to study medium-mediated alterations of cultured erythrocytes by Plasmodium falciparum. The increase in the linoleate level was reproduced in vitro and was also localized in the neutral lipid fraction, especially in triacylglycerols. Studies using proteolytic digestion and heat denaturation showed that a heat-labile serum protein is indispensable for the increase in the linoleate level of red cells treated with the supernatant of P. falciparum cultures. Both the function and the mechanism of this modification of uninfected erythrocytes still remain unknown.
4296237|A simple, disposable, biphasic cultivation chamber has been developed for respiratory tract epithelial cells. This chamber, the Whitcutt chamber, contains a movable, transparent, permeable gelatin membrane that can be employed either submerged in the culture medium, thereby feeding the cells by the traditional immersion method, or raised to the surface of the culture medium, to bring the apical surfaces of the cells into contact with air and provide nutrients only from below (basal feeding). The effects of biphasic cultivation on the growth and differentiation of respiratory tract epithelial cells from different sources have been studied in Whitcutt chambers. Primary hamster tracheal epithelial (HTE) cells grown to confluence with basal feeding developed a ciliated columnar morphology, with differentiated features (cilia and mucous granules) located in the apical region of the epithelial layer. These cells secreted mucinlike molecules from the apical surface (i.e. the surface in contact with air). Although the apical localization of differentiation features was greater, mucous cell differentiation achieved by basal feeding was quantitatively not greater than that achieved by continuous immersion feeding. Similarly, basal feeding did not alter the degree of epithelial cell differentiation in cultures derived from rat, rabbit, and monkey tracheas or from human bronchial and nasal tissues. In contrast, the differentiation of guinea pig tracheal epithelial cells in culture was significantly influenced by the feeding method employed. When fed basally, guinea pig tracheal epithelial cell cultures expressed various mucociliary functions with resemblance to mucociliary layers in vivo, whereas constantly immersed cultures seemed stratified and squamous. These results suggest that, at least for guinea pigs, the combination of feeding methods provided by the Whitcutt chamber can be used to achieve differentiated cultures of tracheal epithelial cells with a polarity of differentiation that is similar to that observed in intact airways in vivo.
4296206|Many research efforts require the accurate determination of cell density in vitro. However, physical cell counting is inaccurate, time-intensive and requires removal of the cells from their growth environment, thereby introducing a host of potential artifacts. The current studies document a very simple method of determining cell density in microtiter wells via DNA-enhanced fluorescence. Fixed cells are stained with the A-T intercalating DNA stains DAPI or Hoechst 33342 and then fluorescence is quantified in a plate fluorometer. Fluorescence is shown to be linearly related to cell density as determined by two physical counting methods. The validity of the method is established in determining serum-stimulated growth of smooth muscle cells and in mitogen-induced growth of endothelial cells. The fixed cells can be stored for prolonged periods, thus allowing time-course proliferation assays without interassay variations. The fixed cells are also suitable for determinations of antigens of interest by ELISA. This method is potentially valuable in many in vitro systems where the quantification of cell density and proliferation is necessary.
4296686|Mouse vaginal epithelial cells were isolated from intact 21-day-old BALB/cCrgl mice and cultured in a serum-free medium (
4296706|Human buccal epithelial cells have been reared from explants maintained in supplemented MCDB 153 medium. Primary epithelial outgrowths show typical structural features and uniformly express keratins; subunit analyses demonstrate expression of keratins 5, 6, 14, 16/17, and 19. The cells exhibit up to 6% colony forming efficiency and divide at about 0.8 population doublings per day on fibronectin/collagen-coated dishes at clonal density. Studies of markers of proliferation and differentiation in buccal epithelial cells indicate that epidermal growth factor, cholera toxin, retinoic acid, and pituitary extract each exhibit a distinctive ability to enhance growth and variably affect cell migration and cell surface area. Transforming growth factor
4296568|Embryogenic suspension cultures of the hardwood forest tree yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera) have the potential to produce millions of plantlets. However, low conversion frequencies limit the realization of this potential. Using 4 embryogenic yellow-poplar lines, we first tested the ability of somatic embryos, selected for their similarity to mature zygotic embryos, to convert to plantlets, then tested physical and chemical treatments for their effects on promoting maturation of somatic embryos and subsequent plantlet production. Embryos selected based on resemblance to mature zygotic embryos and transferred to a hormone-free basal medium without casein hydrolysate (CH) produced plantlets at a frequency of 63%. Populations of synchronized somatic embryos were obtained by repeated fractionation of liquid medium-cultured proembryogenic masses (PEMs) on stainless steel sieves. These fractionated embryos failed to mature properly when cultured in liquid basal medium, however. Development of embryos cultured in basal medium supplemented with
4296248|The relative roles of nucleus and cytoplasm in the induction and maintenance of the malignant state were studied. Cytoplasmic hybrid (cybrid) clones, derived from the fusion of cytoplasts from malignantly transformed cells to normal whole cells, produced tumors in 17% of the animals injected with them. Nuclear/cytoplasmic hybrid (reconstituted cell) clones, derived by fusion of cytoplasts from malignant cells with karyoplasts of normal cells, produced tumors in 97% of the animals injected. A unique aspect of this study is the fact that all of the cells utilized, both normal and malignantly transformed, were derived from an original cloned cell.
4295815|A major goal of our laboratory has been the development of primary culture systems that retain differentiated functions and responses characteristic of intact tissues in vivo. Specifically, we have developed cellular models of primary cultures of rat heart, liver, and kidney cells to explore the mechanisms by which drugs or chemicals may be toxic to key organs of the body and to develop new techniques by which xenobiotics may be evaluated or identified as potential toxicants to living systems. The purpose of this paper is to describe our rationale and approach to the study of target organ toxicology with in vitro cellular systems.
4296601|Interactions between bovine trophoblastic cell vesicles and bovine endometrial epithelial cells were investigated by light and electron microscopy and lectin histochemistry in a cell culture model of early blastocyst attachment. Primary lines of bovine endometrial epithelial cells were polarized by subculturing on substrata and maintaining cultures at the air-medium interface. Trophoblastic cell vesicles were obtained from elongated Day 14 blastocysts. In co-cultures, trophoblastic cell vesicles adhered to endometrial epithelial cells through microvillus interdigitation and formation of primitive membrane junctional complexes. After 3 d in co-culture, a multilayered cellular plaque formed at the trophoblastic cell-endometrial epithelial cell interface. The type of cells contributing to this local proliferative response could not be identified specifically as trophoblastic or endometrial cells, and areas of membrane fusion between cells were noted. Ultrastructural features of vesicle adhesion in cultures were similar to features of conceptus attachment in vivo. Lectins bound to apical membranes of trophoblastic cells and endometrial epithelial cells in all locations except contact sites between vesicles and endometrial cells. These findings suggest that local cellular proliferation and membrane fusion between trophoblastic and endometrial epithelial cells may be early events in conceptus implantation in the cow and these events can be reproduced in culture.
4296582|Primary rat alveolar type II cells and early passage rat lung fibroblasts were co-cultured on opposite sides of a collagen-coated polycarbonate filter. This is an approach to "model", in part, an alveolar wall to study mechanisms of cytotoxicity and translocation of bioactive materials from the alveolar space to the lung interstitium. Type II cells were recovered from adult rat (Fischer 344) lungs by enzyme digestion and "panning". Lung fibroblasts were separated from the same species, cultured initially in 10% fetal bovine serum and used in the co-culture system at early passage. The type II cells formed a monolayer of dedifferentiated epithelium which provided a barrier on the upper side of the collagen (human type IV)-coated filter. The fibroblasts on the bottom of the filter replicated logarithmically in the presence of serum, could be rendered quiescent in defined medium and then returned to rapid growth phase with the reintroduction of serum. The intact epithelial monolayer excluded trypan blue, albumin, platelet-derived growth factor, and
4296282|A serum-free, hormone and attachment factor supplemented culture for rat H4 hepatoma cells was established. In the defined medium (Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's + Ham's F12 + insulin, transferrin, fibronectin liver cell growth factor, and sodium selenite), H4 cells grew equally well as in 10% fetal bovine serum supplemented medium. H4 cells in either defined or serum-containing culture conditions produce transferrin but not albumin or alpha-fetoprotein. In this paper we have studied the effect of various hormones and pressor peptides on the production of angiotensinogen by H4 cells cultured in defined conditions. Only glucocorticoid hormone had a significant effect on the production of angiotensinogen, whereas other hormones previously reported to exert their effect on angiotensinogen production had little or no effect.
4296290|Mature acini with attached segments of intercalated ducts were dissociated from the submandibular glands of rats and grown in primary culture on gels of reconstituted rat tail collagen. Screening evaluations indicated that the following new conditions promoted a substantial improvement in the survival of the cells as compared with our previously reported results: a) adding dexamethasone, epidermal growth factor, and retinoic acid to the medium, b) decreasing the fetal bovine serum in the medium to 1%; and c) adjusting the oxygen in the gas phase to 50%. A detailed evaluation, including light and electron microscopy and biochemical analysis, then provided the following observations. The acinar-ductal complexes enlarged throughout the 22-d culture period, and after 4 d sheets comprised of a one- to two-cell thick layer of acinar cells spread among the complexes. Synthesis of mucin, and its secretion in response to norepinephrine or cAMP, dropped precipitously to very low levels after 2 d. However, synthesis of DNA, general proteins, and glycoproteins dropped only transiently after 2 d, rising to levels approaching those of freshly dissociated complexes by 22 d. These data indicate that a shift occurred from the synthesis of large quantities of secretory proteins and glycoproteins, especially mucins, during the first 2 d in culture, to other materials thereafter. Overall, the new culture conditions resulted in substantial growth and survival of acinar cells through 22 d in primary culture, but the important acinar characteristic of the synthesis and secretion of mucins was essentially lost after 4 d.
4295816|Evaluation of the potential adverse human health effects of low-level chronic exposure to heavy metals is dependent on the basic knowledge of the cellular and molecular toxicology of these metals. The use of various cell culture systems has greatly facilitated our knowledge of the cellular effects. Inasmuch as most of the acute and chronic toxic effects of metals occur primarily on the renal proximal tubules, the development of a rat kidney epithelial cell culture has provided a unique system to study the uptake and mechanism of toxicity of metals and their intracellular binding ligands. In the presence of D-valine, fibroblast growth was retarded and a primary epithelial monolayer culture was selectively grown from rat kidney cells. A distinct difference in the uptake of chemically similar divalent metals, such as Pb
4295900|A simple yet effective method (iso-density percoll centrifugation) has been developed for consistently preparing isolated rat liver parenchymal cells with over 98% initial viability. The method has been applied to cells isolated by a variety of collagenase digestion techniques. This procedure involves the low-speed centrifugation (50 x g) of the initial cell suspension through a percoll medium having a density of 1.06 g/ml and results in the separation of single and viable parenchymal cells from cell aggregates, debris, and nonparenchymal cells. The enriched parenchymal cells have been shown to be superior to untreated cells by a number of criteria including: preparation homogeneity, cell morphology, maintenance of cytochrome P-450, hormonal responsiveness (measured by the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase after treatment with glucagon or dexamethasone, or both), plasma membrane integrity (determined by both trypan blue exclusion and leakage of glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase), and the DNA repair capability after treatment with benzo[a]pyrene or 2-acety laminofluorene.
4296083|The growth of bovine aortic smooth muscle and endothelial cells was studied after exposure to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or its major metabolite, dimethyl sulfone (
20171383| An improved serum-free medium has been developed that supports growth of rat mammary tumor line 64-24 with far less protein supplementation and with a much smaller inoculum than previously possible. An initial survey showed that MCDB 202 supported clonal growth with 1% dialyzed serum. The remaining serum was then replaced with 5 g/ml insulin, 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF), 1 g/ml hydrocortisone, 50 ng/ml ovine prolactin, and 5 g/ml liposome B (a mixture of soy lecithin, sphingomyelin, cholesterol, vitamin E, and vitamin E acetate in liposome form). Insulin and EGF are required and growth is improved by hydrocortisone and prolactin. Estradiol is stimulatory in the absence of liposome B. With adequate iron supplementation, transferrin has no effect. Liposome B increase growth rate substantially. Most of the growth stimulation can be replaced with phosphatidylethanolamine or sphingomyelin. 
4296136|Maintainable, highly embryogenic suspension cultures of a wild relative of cotton (Gossypium klotzschianum Anderss.) have been obtained. Callus with no apparent organization was used to establish the liquid culture. Callus growth conditions as well as suspension medium composition were optimized. A visual selection scheme was beneficial for the maintenance of the embryogenic suspension. These liquid cultures have been maintained for over 10 mo. with no loss in embryogenic capacity. The somatic embryos developed after transfer of the embryogenic tissues to a hormone-free liquid medium.
4296256|Collagen gel culture of rat mammary epithelial cells was used as an in vitro assay system for determination of the therapeutic efficacy of three cytotoxic agents commonly used in the treatment of human breast cancer, namely 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), methotrexate, and Adriamyin (ADR). The same three drugs were also evaluated in vivo, and a good correlation was obtained between the results in these two systems. A 9-d culture was shown to be more reliable than a 12-d culture, because nondrug-related cell mortality became a confounding factor after 12 d. Although further experiments are necessary, it is suggested that collagen gel culture may well prove to be a useful assay system for determination of sensitivity of tumor cells to cytotoxic drugs with possible clinical applications in the choice of treatment modality administered to cancer patients.
4296515| A serum-free primary culture system has been developed which allows for three-dimensional growth and differentiation of normal rat mammary epithelial cells (RMECs) within an extracellular matrix preparation. RMECs were isolated from mammary glands of immature 50- to 60-d-old rats and the organoids embedded within a reconstituted basement membrane matrix prepared from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm sarcoma. Cells grown in a serum-free media consisting of phenol red-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-F12 culture medium containing 10 g/ml insulin, 1 g/ml prolactin, 1 g/ml progesterone, 1 g/ml hydrocortisone, 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF), 1 mg/ml fatty-acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA), 5 g/ml transferrin, and 5 M ascorbic acid proliferated extensively (15- to 20-fold increase in cell number as quantitated using the MTT dye assay) over a 2- to 3-wk culture period and remained viable for months in culture. Several types of colonies were observed including the alveolarlike budding cluster which predominates at later times in culture, units with no or various degrees of ductal-like projections, stellate colonies, and two-and three-dimensional web units. Optimal proliferation required insulin, prolactin, progesterone, EGF, and bovine serum albumin. Hydrocortisone was not required for proliferation, but the colonies developing in its absence were morphologically altered, with a high frequency of colonies that formed an extensively branched network with many fine projections. Cell proliferation was also dependent on substratum, with significantly less growth and development occurring in RMECs grown within a type I collagen gel matrix compared to RMECs grown within the reconstituted basement membrane. In conjunction with other studies demonstrating extensive differentiation as well as proliferation, it is concluded that this model should prove to be an important tool to study the hormonal regulation of the growth and development of rat mammary cells. 
4296279|A Brazilian stock of clone C17 of the IB-RS-2 porcine kidney cell line which was contaminated with hog cholera virus (HCV) was cloned. One clone designated IB-RS-2 D10 was determined to be free of HCV, 20 other viruses, and Mycoplasma. IB-RS-2 D10 cells possessed the same viral susceptibility pattern as the contaminated parent cells to the viruses of foot-and-mouth disease, swine vesicular disease, vesicular exanthema of swine, transmissible gastroenteritis, and several other viruses. The IB-RS-2 D10 cells had a median chromosome count of 34, were morphologically epithelioid cells, and were resistant to HCV infection. Freedom from HCV affords advantages for vaccine production and avoids laboratory contamination.
4296275|Proliferative and differentiative responses to various doses of vitamin A (VA) were studied in the predifferentiated cells of a fetal Syrian hamster pulmonary epithelial line (M3E3/C3), which were cultured on a collagen gel in a hormone-supplemented medium. These predifferentiated cells possessed well-developed endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus. At VA doses higher than
4296369|Embryonic disks were microsurgically isolated from adjacent trophoblast tissue and cultured for varying periods in vitro. During the first 24 h of culture, vesicles (1 to 4/disk) composed of mesoderm and endoderm formed from the ventral surface. In the subsequent culture period, the vesicles continued to increase in size and by 96 h in vitro, most originally multivesiculated explants possessed a single vesicle formed by delamination and coalescence of smaller vesicles. Scanning electron microscopy revealed the formation of grooves and ridges in abnormal attempts at differentiation by the embryonic ectoderm. Endoderm comprising the outer tissue layer of the vesicle underwent a gradual alteration in surface morphology during in vitro culture. Initially flat, with a paucity of microvilli, these cells became dome-shaped with an abundance of microvilli. In addition, they became highly secretory as revealed by the presence of numerous secretory droplets at their surface. After culture for periods of up to 10 d, several explants displayed areas containing pulsating tissue, with contractions occurring at a rate of 20 to 30/minute, indicative of mesoderm differentiation. Culture of porcine isolated embryonic disk in vitro should enhance investigations into the regulation of germ layer formation and differentiation and assist in determining the tissue source of conceptus secretory products.
4296529|We have compared hormone production by early gestation and term human placental trophoblasts cultured in Ham's F10 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum with that by cells cultured in serum-free HB102 medium. Mean daily production of progesterone on Days 3 to 7 was approximately 25% less by both early gestation and term cells cultured in HB102 as compared to Ham's F10, but production was maintained at a stable level for at least 7 d longer than the cells in Ham's. Estradiol production from 10
4296266|The recognized need for epithelial cell culture models for cystic fibrosis (CF) research has resulted in ongoing efforts to improve normal and CF submandibular duct cell culture capabilities. The duct is most likely the site of the CF defect in this and other exocrine glands. In a previous report conditions required for the successful primary explant culture of normal and CF submandibular glands were outlined; however, terminal keratinization and involution of these cultures were recognized as severe limiting factors to their utilization in CF research. This report explores the effects of calcium concentrations in the medium, growth factor supplements, and matrix components on growth and differentiation of these cultures. Results of the study further confirm the ductal origin of cells in the outgrowth and demonstrate that progressive keratinization is initiated only after cells proliferate beyond the environment of the explant fragment. Keratinization with subsequent multilayering, desmosome formation, and involution in the cell outgrowth are governed in degree by the calcium concentration of the growth medium. Upon reduction of medium calcium to 0.1 mM concentration, the cells proliferate as a monolayer and subculture through 8 to 9 passages and retain the capacity to undergo ductlike differentiation.
4296037|A new, nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line, HMT-3522, has been established from fibrocystic breast tissue. Cells were explanted and propagated in chemically defined medium including insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, estradiol, prolactin, and Na-selenite. The epithelial nature of the cell line was established by immunocytochemical detection of cytokeratins. Moreover, electronmicroscopy revealed monolayers of polarized cells connected by desmosomes and provided with apical microvilli. Milk fat globule membrane antigen, specific for the apical membrane domain of normal, luminal breast epithelial cells, was expressed only in confluent cultures where some cells overlaid others, indicating "stem cell"-like properties. After 25 to 30 passages, the cells are diploid with a few marker chromosomes and loss of chromosomes in the D-group. The cells are nontumorigenic in athymic mice; they lack estrogen receptors, and estradiol does not stimulate growth. The HMT-3522 cell line may represent a useful model for the study of breast cell differentiation and carcinogenesis in vitro.
4296194|The capacity of asbestos to mediate transfection was tested in a rapid and relatively simple system: picornavirus RNAs and mammalian cells in vitro. Thirteen asbestos samples, including amosite, anthophyllite, chrysotile, and crocidolite, 4 picornaviruses (poliovirus 1 and 2, echovirus 7, and encephalomyocarditis virus), and 4 cell lines (CLI, chimpanzee liver; KB, human carcinoma; eta, monkey kidney; NIH 3T3, mouse embryo) were tested. The results showed that all asbestos samples mediated transfection and that all cell lines were transfectible by viral RNA with asbestos. Transfection was much greater with asbestos added to the viral RNA inoculum than to the cells before or after the RNA. Transfection was directly proportional to asbestos concentration. Initiation of transfection events was rapid, with half becoming irreversible by washing 2 min postinoculation. DNA in the inoculum strongly interfered with asbestos-mediated transfection by the RNA but was ineffective when added, with or without asbestos, to the cells before or after the inoculum. Asbestos compared with six classical "insoluble" facilitators (bentonite, calcium phosphate, chromic oxide, ferric oxide, kaolin, talc) was of intermediate rank in transfection mediation. It is hypothesized that the prominence of asbestos in carcinogenesis is due to a combination of properties, including transfection mediation as well as chromosome mutagenicity, fiber dimensions, biological durability, hydrocarbon transport, and prevalence.
4295843|A serum-free medium has been devised that supports the proliferation and differentiation of primary cultures of rat skeletal muscle satellite cells for up to 4 d. The medium consists of a mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and MCDB-104 plus insulin, dexamethasone, pituitary fibroblast growth factor, Deutsch fetuin, and linoleic acid. In addition to promoting the formation of myotubes from satellite cells, a decrease in fibroblast contamination of these cultures was observed when cultures grown in serum-free medium were compared to cultures grown in serum-containing medium.
20171482|We report a culture scheme in which human epiphyseal chondrocytes lose their differentiated phenotype in monolayer and subsequently reexpress the phenotype in an agarose gel. The scheme is based on a method using rabbit chondrocytes. Culture in monolayer allowed small quantities of cells to be amplified and provided a starting point to study expression of the differentiated human chondrocyte phenotype. The cells cultured in monolayer produced type I procollagen, fibronectin, and small noncartilaginous proteoglycans. Subsequent culture in agarose was associated with the acquisition of typical chondrocyte ultrastructural features and the synthesis of type II collagen and cartilage-specific proteoglycans. The switch from the nonchondrocyte to the differentiated chondrocyte phenotype occurred under these conditions between 1 and 2 wk of agarose culture and was not necessarily homogeneous throughout a culture. This culture technique will facilitate direct investigation of human disorders of cartilage that have been addressed in the past by alternative approaches.
4296074|Embryonic chick sternal chondrocytes were cultured either within three dimensional gels of type I collagen, type II collagen or agar, or as monolayers on plastic dishes coated with air-dried films of these matrix macromolecules. It was observed that cell shape and cell growth varied markedly between the different culture conditions. Flattened monolayers of cells on plastic or films of type I or type II collagen, proliferated more rapidly and reached a higher final cell density per culture than the more rounded cells found in the cultures on agar films or within three-dimensional gels. Biosynthetic studies demonstrated that in addition to the synthesis of type II collagen, all the cultures were producing collagen types IX and X. Chondrocytes cultured on plastic or films of the different matrix macromolecules all showed a similar expression of types IX and X collagen, independent of whether they displayed a flattened or round cell morphology. In contrast, marked variations in the proportions of the minor collagens, particularly type X collagen, were observed when the cells were cultured within three-dimensional gels. The data suggest that direct interaction of the cell surface with matrix constituents displaying a particular spatial array could be an important aspect in the control of type IX and X collagen expression by chondrocytes.
4295858|Radial histophysioiogic gradient culture uses thin walled, permeable collagen tubes to house inocula in the form of either tissue explants, aggregates of cells, or dissociated cells. The outgrowth from these inocula spreads on the inner surface of the cylindrical tube, completely lining the lumen. Metabolites are exchanged through the wall of the collagen tube by diffusion from the pool of medium surrounding the cylinder. Urothelial cells form organoid stratified epithelium. A histophysioiogic gradient occurs with the basal surface of the epithelium attached to the collagen wall. At this interface, for normal bladder, the initiation of epithelial renewal is seen in the basal zone, as shown by incorporation of tritiated thymidine. The simulation of conditions in nature is attained by the exchange of metabolites between the pool of medium and the basal zone of the epithelium. NBT-II appears as two concentric stratified epithelia. Isotopic labelling is seen throughout the epithelium attached to the collagen membrane. In the superficial stratified epithelium remnants of nuclei are seen without isotopic labelling. Preparation of living cultures and, after fixation, of histologic sections is technically easy.
4296067| This study investigates the nutritional requirements of Xenopus laevis neural crest cells and melanophores developing in vitro. A comparison is made between the growth and differentiation of cells in serum-containing medium and a chemically defined, serum-free medium that we have designed. Our chemically defined medium is more efficient than serum-supplemented medium in promoting proliferation of these cells. Several supplements are required to enhance culture development. These include insulin, -melanocyte stimulating hormone, somatotropin, luteotrophic hormone, linoleic acid, uridine, and putrescine. In addition, collagen and fibronectin provide the most conducive environment tested for cell migration and adhesion. 
20171369|The effects of 2,5 hexanedione (2,5 HD), a metabolite of n-hexane, were investigated in different in vitro systems. A human mammary carcinoma cell line, a human melanoma cell line, and fetal mouse neuronal cells in primary culture were considered. Light and electron microscopic observations demonstrated clearly that changes in cell proliferation can be detected. Furthermore, morphologic differentiative phenomena characterized by a noticeable increase in cell protrusions and dendriticlike processes can occur. Differences in the features of these processes were also detected between the different cell lines. These data can indicate non-neuronal cells as possible further targets of the toxicant. The possibility could be hypothesized that toxic neuropathies are generalized disorders, being neuronal system exceptionally vulnerable to 2,5 HD. Moreover, results obtained suggest that the sensitivity of in vitro systems could represent a useful tool in studying the mechanisms of action of the neurotoxicant 2,5 HD.
4296937|Normal cells in culture respond to cell density by altering their proliferation rates and their pattern of protein expression. Primary avian tendon (PAT) cells are a case in point where procollagen production increases ~ 10-fold at high cell density while proliferation almost ceases. In an earlier report focusing on the cell density regulation of procollagen expression, the signaling mechanism communicating the presence of other cells was shown to have the characteristics of a loosely bound component of the cell layer. Extending these studies to the cell density regulation of proliferation, the cell density signal (CDS) was again shown to be altered by medium agitation, stimulating cell division. Agitation, however, was only disruptive to cell signaling when there was a high ratio of medium to cells. When sufficient cells were present, agitation was less effective. Therefore, the CDS controlling procollagen production and the CDS controlling the inhibition of growth seemed to be linked because the signaling mechanism is disrupted in a parallel manner by agitation. However, the proliferative response of PAT cells is more complex in that there is also a positive influence at moderate cell density ($>2 \times 10^4$ cells/cm
4296260|Primary cultures of Sertoli cells maintained in conventional cultures on plastic culture vessels do not retain many of the structural and functional properties of their in vivo counterparts. Sertoli cell phenotype is better maintained by incorporating certain environmental parameters, intrinsic to the testis, into the Sertoli cell culture system. These environmental parameters include a) high cell density, b) a unique extracellular matrix, c) a semipermeable support between the basal plasma membrane of the cells and blood-derived nutrients in the interstitium, d) chemically distinct microenvironments at the apical and basal surfaces of the cells, and e) cell-to-cell interactions among Sertoli cells and other testicular cell types. Using three variations of Sertoli cell culture we have demonstrated the importance of each of these environmental parameters in obtaining a better Sertoli cell culture model.
4296830|We report the first use of nutrient mist bioreactor (NMB) technology to culture animal cells. The nutrient mist approximated the amebocyte stem tissue's natural environment, which is a thin layer of fluid in the gill leaflets of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus. NMB culture was tried in an attempt to increase production of amebocytes, which are the source of the Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL), the basis for a sensitive and commercially valuable endotoxin assay. Amebocyte growth in the nutrient mist bioreactor is comparable to growth in liquid medium. However, the current design of the bioreactor presents problems for primary cultures such as ours where a pyrogen-free environment is necessary and fungal decontamination is difficult.
4296261|Cadmium (Cd) induces testicular tumors of interstitial cell (IC) origin in rats which can be prevented by zinc (Zn). Zn-induced synthesis of metallothionein (MT), a metal-binding protein with a high affinity for Cd, is thought to account for tolerance to Cd in most tissues by sequestration of Cd. However, the mechanism of Zn inhibition of Cd-induced carcinogenesis in the testes is unknown. Our studies with ICs obtained by collagenase dispersion of rat testes, indicate the levels of the Cd-binding protein in ICs are unaltered by Zn. This testicular protein also was found to differ from MT in amino acid content and to have a lower affinity for Cd. Thus, MT does not seem to be involved in protection of ICs against Cd carcinogenesis. Altered Cd toxicokinetics as a possible explanation for Zn-induced tolerance was therefore explored. Cd uptake into isolated ICs had passive diffusion and nonpassive (carrier mediated or active transport or both) components. The nonpassive component of Cd accumulation was markedly reduced by addition of Zn in vitro, indicative of competition for uptake at the cellular level. These results indicate that toxicokinetic alterations leading to reduced Cd accumulation may play an important role in Zn induction of tolerance to Cd carcinogenesis in the testes.
4296976| We examined the effects of all-trans retinoic acid (RA) on (12) fucosyltransferase activity and sensitivity to LAK-mediated cytotoxicity in two rat colon carcinoma cell lines differing by their glycosylation state and their tumorigenic potential. RA induced a decrease in (12) fucosyltransferase activity in the more tumorigenic variant PROb. Fucosyltransferase mRNA levels were not affected by RA treatment in PROb cells, suggesting a posttranscriptional control. This inhibition was accompanied by a decreased expression of fucosylated membrane glycoconjugates and by a significant increase in the sensitivity to LAK-mediated cytotoxicity. REGb cells, which exhibited a very low enzymatic activity and very few fucosylated glycoconjugates, were more sensitive to LAK-lysis than PROb cells and were not affected by RA treatment. 
4296140| Insect cell lines are not well-suited to colony formation in liquid medium following low-density cell plating. The present studies demonstrate that the time of addition of fetal bovine serum to the culture medium and the number of -irradiated feeder cells added to each plate are important factors in developing a useful colony formation assay. TN-368 lepidopteran and WR69-DM-1 dipteran cell lines were used for these experiments. Both cell types display increased plating efficiencies if serum is added to the medium one or more days prior to plating as compared to adding serum immediately before plating. Growth curves obtained by seeding cells at higher densities also indicate that cell growth is slightly better if serum is added one or more days before seeding. These findings are especially important for survival and toxicity studies because the results demonstrate that even seemingly minor factors involved in cell survival assays may benefit treated cells to a greater degree than untreated control cells, thus providing an erroneous assessment of cell survival. 
4295909| We developed a rapid bioassay to determine in vitro drug stabilities in the clonogenic assay. The in vitro half-lives of 11 standard antitumor agents, actinomycin D, Adriamycin, bleomycin, cis-Platinum, dacarbazine, 5-fluorouracil, melphalan, mitomycin C, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrpsourea (BCNU), vinblastine, and vincristine, and four investigational drugs, Aziridinylbenzoquinone (AZQ) (NSC 182986), diamminecyclobutane-dicarboxylatoplatinum (CBDCA) (NSC 241240), Dihydroxyanthracenedione dihydrochloride (DHAD) (NSC 301739), and 1-(2-chlorpethyl)-3-(2,6-dioxo-3-piperidyl-1-nirosourea) (PCNU) (NSC 95466), were determined under conditions of the clonogenic assay as well as under storage conditions at -40 and -196 C. BCNU and AZQ at -40C had t 1/2 of 4.7 d and 2.5 d, respectively. All other drugs were stable at -40 and -196 C with t 1/2 >6 wk. Under assay conditions at 37 C, actinomycin D, bleomycin, dacarbazine, 5-fluorouracil, mitomycin C, vinblastine, vincristine, and DHAD were stable, with t 1/2 >14 d. CBDCA, AZQ, Adriamycin, cis-Platinum, melphalan, BCNU, and PCNU had t 1/2 of 94,72, 29, 18.5, 1.8, 1, and 0.5 h, respectively. 
4296268|To determine if the medium osmolality of plant protoplast cultures in 24-well tissue culture plates changes sufficiently during the culture period to affect development of the protoplasts the osmolality and the division of the protoplasts was monitored within the plates over a three week period. Large increases in osmolality were measured in cell-free experiments indicating that overall evaporation from the plates was substantial. The amount of evaporation from a given culture well depended on the position of the well within the plate; three microenvironments corresponding to the corner, edge, and middle positions of the plate consistently developed. Water placed in the recessed area between each culture well moderated the desiccation of the medium but did not eliminate the formation of microenvironments. The osmolality of the medium in protoplast cultures was higher than in the cell-free experiments but similar trends in terms of plate position were recorded. After 3 weeks of incubation of plates with water added between the wells, the osmolality of the medium in the protoplast cultures had increased 209 mOsm in the corner wells, had increased 77 mOsm in the edge wells, and had decreased 39 mOsm in the middle wells. As a result, there was a three-fold higher incidence of division of the protoplasts in the middle wells than in the corner wells. The non-uniformity of medium osmolality in protoplast cultures within tissue cultures well plates is important in experimental design, in the reproducibility of procedures between different laboratories, and in the preparation of replenishment medium for protoplast cultures to minimize osmotic shock.
4296859|To establish a model system for preclinical radioimmunotherapy studies, attempts were made to graft 16 different human breast carcinoma cell lines into BALB/c nu/nu (nude) mice. Nine produced serially transplantable tumors growing at a variable rate, whereas seven failed to do so. Conversely, three new cell lines were established in monolayer culture from transplantable human breast tumors in nude mice. Twelve selected tumors and their corresponding cell lines were characterized for DNA ploidy, % S-phase, and breast epithelial mucin expression by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. A wide diversity of these cellular characteristics were found in that each tumor was unique and distinct from the others. DNA ploidy differed among the tumors but was not affected by switching between in vitro to in vivo growth. Some tumors expressed similar levels of the breast mucin both in vitro and in vivo, whereas most expressed lower levels as transplantable tumors. There was a good correlation between immunohistochemical and flow cytometric determination of surface and cytoplasmic mucin expression, and with both techniques estrogen and progesterone receptor positive tumors had significantly higher levels of mucin expression than receptor negative tumors. These 12 transplantable breast tumors, with their corresponding cell lines, provide an excellent model system for testing radioimmunotherapy and other therapeutic reagents because they exhibit diverse phenotypic characteristics that represented a mini-population of breast cancer patients' tumors, allowing assessment of the effect of therapy when confronted with different breast tumors' genotype and phenotype.
4295733|The differentiation of epithelial tissue in organ cultures of murine buccal mucosa, various human oral mucosa, and human newborn foreskin was found to be dependent on the calcium concentration of the culture media. In low calcium medium (
4296321|To define the role of endogenously synthesized cholesterol in the differentiation of adrenocortical cells in primary culture, fetal rat adrenal cells were cultured in the presence of exogenous cholesterol (serum-supplemented medium) or in the absence of it (serum-free medium or lipoprotein-free medium). Ultrastructurally the cells had features of glomerulosa cells: mitochondria were oval or rod shaped with lamellar inner membranes. The amount of smooth endoplasmic reticulum was small, and lipid droplets were few. When the cells were cultured in serum-free medium some intracytoplasmic vacuoles were seen. The undifferentiated zona glomerulosa-like cells secreted low amounts of corticosterone and 18-OH-deoxycorticosterone (18-0H-D0C) in all three media (serum-supplemented medium, serum-free medium, and lipoprotein-free medium). Stimulation of the adrenocortical cells with ACTH induced the ultrastructural features of differentiated zona fasciculata-like cells. Mitochondrial inner membranes were well developed in lipoprotein-free medium, but not in serum-free medium. The amount of intracellular lipids was increased in both media devoid of cholesterol. In the ACTH stimulated cultures the presence of exogenous cholesterol resulted in increased secretions of corticosterone and 18-0H-D0C. In the absence of an exogenous source of cholesterol, the amounts of steroids secreted were only half of that secreted in the presence of serum-supplemented medium. Endogenously synthesized cholesterol is sufficient for the morphologic differentiation of fetal rat adrenocortical cells under ACTH stimulation. However, without exogenously provided cholesterol, the steroid production accounts only for half of the maximal output achieved using serum-supplemented medium.
4296189| Rat liver epithelial cells are induced to migrate by epidermal growth factor (EGF) or transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-) in serum-free medium supplemented with insulin. Immunohistological staining of the migration tracks containing laminin and fibronectin has allowed a quantitative analysis of the process. The growth factor-induced migration is relatively slow, but very efficient. Between 24 and 48 h after exposure to EGF (or TGF-), 50 to 70% of the cells have migrated away from their site of initial attachment and spreading. This delayed effect of the interaction of the receptor with its ligands is associated with changes in gene expression, but is not associated with a stimulation of cell proliferation. In serum-free medium supplemented with insulin, the cells secrete six major proteins, as revealed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The media of cultures supplemented with insulin plus EGF (or TGF-) contain in addition two new proteins and an increased amount of fibronectin. One secreted protein is synthesized in significantly reduced amounts. The most conspicuously EGF-induced protein (EIP-1; Mr 47 000) is detected within 2 h, depends on the continued presence of the growth factor, and has not been detected as bound to the substratum. The stringent regulation of EIP-1 suggests that this gene product might participate in the modulation of the changes induced by the growth factor. The system is being used for the further analysis of the regulation of gene expression by EGF and of the migration of normal and neoplastically transformed epithelial cells. 
4296942| The ability of different Fc receptors (Fc R) on IgG-mediated cytotoxicity for human epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells bearing large number of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs) was examined by using two isotypes (IgGl and IgG2a) of murine monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) against EGFR in the presence of human monocytes and granulocytes. Two MoAbs (225 and LA1) of the IgG1 isotype exhibited effective cytolytic activity for A431 cells with human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) rather than with human mononuclear cells (MNC). In contrast, two MoAbs (528 and 579) of the IgG2a-isotype lysed the cells less effectively with PMN than with MNC. Anti-Fc R II (CDw32) MoAb 2E1 inhibited the IgG1-mediated cytotoxicity by PMN, and anti-Fc R HI (CD16) MoAb 80H3 did not inhibit the IgG2a-mediated cytotoxicity by MNC. Under these conditions, antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity by mouse MoAb IgGl isotypes resulted from antibody binding to the Fc R II (CDw32) of PMN. 
4295940|The in vitro proliferations rates and ptoteoglycans synthesized by adult human gingival fibroblasts derived from six age- and sex-matched donors of healthy and chronically inflamed gingiva were analyzed. Fibroblasts from inflamed gingiva demonstrated a slower growth rate than cells from healthy tissue. The rate of incorporation of
4296548|Oscillations in glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activities were recorded in suspensions of intact human red blood cells (RBCs) exposed to various light regimens. The periods of these oscillations, defined as "long ultradian," ranged between 13 and 18 h regardless of light regimen. The patterns of enzymatic activities were the same when assayed at each time point, in full hypotonic hemolysates, and membrane-free hemolysates. However, if hemolysates were prepared by sonication the activity pattern did not exhibit significant oscillations and the activity was higher than that recorded in hypotonic hemolysates. The observed rhythms may reflect a time-dependent attachment and detachment of enzyme molecules from cell membrane, suggesting that at the bound state the enzyme molecules are (temporarily) inactive. Oscillations with similar long ultradian periods were also observed in Ca
4295771|The effects of metabolic poisons on the ATP content of cultured human skin fibroblasts at selected in vitro and in vivo ages were studied. Potassium cyanide, iodacetemide, and Arsenate were used to inhibit ATP restoration by glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation. Cells treated with these metabolic poisons showed an age-dependent change in their ATP content. The decrease in cellular ATP content after exposure to these drugs was taken as an estimate of ATP turnover. It was found that there was a decrease in the ATP turnover with increasing population doubling level (i.e. in vitro age), and cells cultured from a 68-yr-old donor had a lower ATP turnover than those cultured from a neonatal donor. This decreased ATP turnover correlates with a previous finding of a decreased ability of "older" cells to be stimulated to migrate in culture and suggests that there is a metabolic component to this age-related functional deficiency.
4296388|In a previous study Chinese hamster fibroblasts carrying a partially deleted v-src were established in a synthetic medium lacking macromolecular supplements and shown to possess a particular serum-free phenotype hereafter designated sf. In cloning efficiency assays, sf, unlike wild-type, fibroblasts required a threshold cell density to grow from single cells, suggesting autocrine stimulation. In the present study a conditioned medium harvested from sf cells was added to the same sf cells, and the resulting cloning density was found to markedly diminish rather than increase. Sf cells were found to be unable to grow at cloning density because of trypsin damage: sf cells seeded into trypsin inhibitor-containing medium cloned with no requirement for threshold cells and were therefore independent of autocrine secretion from neighboring cells. Their cloning efficiency reached 7.7%; this value could not be improved by subcloning the sf culture, and it diminished when selenium was not added to the assay medium. To determine whether v-src is involved in the sf phenotype, five clones of the parental Chinese hamster fibroblast line not infected with Rous sarcoma virus were explanted into serum-free cultures with no macromolecular additives as in the case of v-src-containing cells. Each clone gave rise to an sf cell line growing indefinitely in synthetic medium like the v-src-containing sf cells, showing that the v-src gene is not required either for the establishment or maintenance of the sf phenotype.
4295934|The stroma vascular fraction of adipose tissue consists of a heterogeneous cell population; not all the cells in this compartment undergo adipose conversion in primary culture. A density gradient centrifugation procedure was used to separate cultured cells on the basis of their triglyceride content. This method was applied to both stroma vascular cells from rat adipose tissue and to a 3T3 F442A preadipose cell line as a reference. Comparison of the results obtained from these two cell types suggests that this separation procedure can lead to a quantification of adipose differentiation in the heterogeneous stromal cell population. Separation procedures were applied to cultured stromal cells derived from young rats during the onset of nutritional obesity induced by overfeeding in early life. Results show that early overfeeding induced an increase in the stromal cell differentiation capacity which is expressed in vitro.
4296632| To simplify the isolation of neutrophils, we developed a one-step procedure using elutriation. The perfusate (0.2% gelatin and 0.1% glucose in phosphate buffered saline) was pumped through an elutriator rotor at 4 ml/min (25 C) with the rotor speed at 2370 rpm. Twenty milliliters of anticoagulated porcine venous blood were mixed with 60 ml of perfusate and loaded into the elutriator chamber. The flow rate was increased by 2 ml/min increments and 100-ml fractions of effluent were collected at each increment. Concentrations of neutrophils and mononuclear cells were measured in each fraction, and the percentage of total neutrophils or mononuclear cells was plotted against flow rate. The optimal yield (46%) and purity (95.1%) of neutrophils (n = 8) was obtained in pooled fractions at flow rates greater than 20 ml/min. Neutrophils in this preparation were round, the granules were intact, and the nuclei were lobulated. In addition, the cells produced Superoxide in the presence of phorbol myristate acetate and phagocytosed zymosan particles. These characteristics were similar to those of porcine neutrophils prepared by a conventional sedimentation method. The yield (43%) and purity (94%) of human neutrophils isolated using the elutriator method was similar to that for porcine cells. This one-step method provides a moderate yield of pure neutrophils that have retained their morphology and function. 
4296934|Prolonged exposure of cells to the potent protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide terminates in cell death. In the present study we investigated the effect of insulinlike growth factor-1, insulin, and epidermal growth factor on cell death induced by cycloheximide in the confluent MCF-7 cells, and correlated this effect to the inhibition rate of protein synthesis. Cell death was evaluated by measuring either dead cells by the try pan blue dye exclusion test or by the release of lactic dehydrogenase into the culture medium. After 48 h incubation, cycloheximide (10 to
4296431|For our laboratory's investigation into the role of the endothelial cells in vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage and in inflammatory diseases, we found it necessary to devise a modified method of cell culture, which would be appropriate for studying human endothelial cells from lobectomized brain. We report our techniques to increase cell harvest and ensure reproducibility, our method of culturing endothelial cells from bovine major cerebral arteries, and our morphologic and immunocytochemical characterization of these cells. To increase the harvest of endothelial cells, the blood cells were washed from the lumen of the major cerebral arteries at the slaughterhouse and a modified reversed vessel technique was employed. The monolayer of cultured endothelial cells displayed a cobblestone appearance when it reached confluency and transmission electron microscopy revealed junctional complexes and interdigitation of cytoplasm at Passages 10 and 17. The cells stained positively for Factor VIII-related antigen at Passages 3, 5, 7, 10, and 15. Also the cells metabolized acetylated low-density lipoprotein at Passage 8. To determine the purity of the cultured endothelial cells, an immunocytochemical study of the cytoskeleton was performed on Passage 5 cells using either rhodamine-phalloidin or antibodies against smooth muscle myosin, desmin, and vimentin.
4296635|We have demonstrated that squamous metaplasia induced by benzo(a)pyrene (BP) in the hamster tracheal explants accompany distinct alterations in carbohydrate moieties in the epithelial mucosa. Most prominent alterations were the preferential binding of peanut agglutinin (PNA) and wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) in the basal cell layer in metaplastic lesions. In this study we examined if reversal of BP-induced lesions by all-trans retinoic acid (RA) results in the acquisition of normal carbohydrate composition by the tissue. Four lectins, PNA, WGA, Dolichos biflorus agglutinin, and Concanavalin A, in their horseradish peroxidase conjugates were used. In control explants the intercellular plasma membrane of basal and mucous cells exhibited no significant reaction with any of the lectins tested. In the metaplastic lesions induced by BP, PNA and WGA intensely stained the plasma membrane and intercellular spaces of basal and intermediate cell layers; the granular layer cells did not bind PNA whereas they were stained moderately with WGA. RA, which reversed the metaplasia, also conferred the tissue with lectin binding patterns similar to that of control explants. These results thus show that the reversal of metaplasia is accompanied by acquisition of the tissue's original carbohydrate composition.
4296858|The estrogen-responsive Leghorn strain M chicken hepatoma (LMH) cell line provides a model system for studying the estrogen-dependent, liver-specific expression of avian genes. Serum-free culture conditions have been established that allow expression of apolipoprotein B, very low density apolipoprotein II (apoVLDLII), serum albumin, and transferrin at levels detectable by Northern blot analysis. Regulation of apoVLDLII mRNA by estrogen occurred in an appropriate timeand dose-dependent manner in serum-free cultures of the LMH cells. The expression of apoVLDLII mRNA in serum-free culture was at least 100-fold higher than that expressed in cultures containing 10% serum. The level of estrogen receptors in LMH cells cultured with 10% serum was approximately 2000 receptors per cell, and in serum-free culture approximately 1000 receptors per cell. When these cells were transfected with estrogen receptor DNA and cultured in serum-free medium, apoVLDLII mRNA was decreased relative to that expressed in cells transfected with a control plasmid. These results indicate that when the LMH cells are cultured without serum, estrogen receptors are not the limiting factor for the expression of the apoVLDLII gene.
4296291|Primary cultures of spontaneously beating myocardial cells isolated from neonatal rat hearts were used to screen the cardiotoxic effects of Jamesoni's mamba (Dendroaspis jamesoni) venom and components isolated from the venom by gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography. Cardiotoxicity was evaluated on the basis of leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), changes in morphology, cell membrane lysis, cellular viability, and alterations in spontaneous beating activity. The whole venom caused dose- and time-dependent leakage of LDH, disruption of the cell monolayer, decreases in viability, and inhibition of beating activity. Gel filtration of the venom yielded eight fractions (DjI to DjVIII). DjI (30 g/ml), DjII (20 g/ml), and DjV (20 g/ml) caused significant (P < 0.001) leakage of LDH, extensive morphologic damage, and decreases in viability. At lower concentrations DjI to DjVIII caused progressive inhibition of spontaneous beating activity. The main fraction (DjV), which was the most toxic, was further separated into 14 polypeptides (Dj1 to Dj14) by ion-exchange chromatography using Bio-Rex 70. Based on the ability to induce LDH leakage, produce morphologic damage, lyse cell membranes, and arrest beating activity, four categories of polypeptides were identified: cardiotoxins, Dj1 and Dj2; cardiotoxinlike polypeptides, Dj3 to Dj8; less active membrane lytic polypeptides, Dj9 to Dj13; and membrane lytic polypeptide, Dj14.
4296259|We sought to establish conditions that increased the duration of testosterone production by fully differentiated adult rat Leydig cells in primary culture. A freshly isolated suspension of highly purified adult rat Leydig cells produced 83 ng testosterone/10
4295985|Mucosal biopsies from rabbit ileum were organ cultured for 24 h. The influence of triamcinolone and somatostatin on villus height and diameter as well as crypt depth and the number of mitoses was measured at various times during 24 h of culture as indices of cell proliferation and tissue maintenance. It could be shown that triamcinolone reduced cell proliferation slightly but preserved mucosal structure in organ culture. Somatostatin inhibited crypt cell proliferation, without any effect on other morphological parameters.
4295732|The study of the growth rate and incorporation of
20171479| In experimental animal models the susceptibility of the mammary gland to neoplastic transformation is related to its degree of development and proliferative activity; this observation led us to determine whether the human breast epithelium also exhibits development-related differences, and whether these differences could be detected in an in vitro system. Normal breast tissue obtained from reduction mammoplasties of 9 patients ranging in age from 18 to 56 years were characterized in both whole mount preparations and organoids obtained after collagenase-hyaluronidase digestion by their degree of development based upon the types of lobules present. Lobules were classified into type 1 (Lob 1), composed of approximately 11 alveolar buds, the less developed; lobules type 2 (Lob 2), of moderate development, composed of approximately 47 ductules each, and lobules type 3 (Lob 3), composed of 80 ductules each, represented the highest level of development. Epithelial organoids obtained after digestion were plated in DMEM:F12 medium supplemented with hydrocortisone, cholera toxin, insulin and 5% horse serum with a calcium concentration of 1.05 mM Ca. Following attachment, the medium was replaced by medium containing 0.040 mM Ca. The percentage of attachment of organoids to the flask was greater in cells from Lob 1 (89-99%) and Lob 1+2 (79-100%) than in cells from Lob 3, which had a 53-67% attachment. The total yield of cells after 7 weeks in culture was also greater in cells derived from Lob 1 and Lob 1+2 than in cells from Lob 3. The total yield of cells obtained from primary cultures was not related to the number of organoids plated, but to the degree of development of the gland. The DNA-labeling index (DNA-LI) in intact breast tissue correlated with that in primary cultures; it was greater in Lob 1 and Lob 1+2 than in Lob 3. By flow cytometry, the highest percentage of cells in S-phase was seen in cells with the highest DNA-LI. We concluded that the growth characteristics of mammary epithelial cells in vitro in a low Ca medium is modulated by the degree of development and differentiation of the gland. 
4295723| This study demonstrates that phenotypic characteristics of androgen-responsive (AR) Shionogi mouse mammary tumors and androgen-independent (AI) derivatives can be maintained in culture. Cells were seeded onto collagen gels in medium containing 2% dextran-charcoal-treated fetal bovine serum with or without 0.01 g/ml dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Androgen-responsive tumors grew more rapidly than AI tumors in vivo and consequently, cells from AR tumors cultured in DHT-containing medium grew faster than cells in DHT-deprived medium and cells from AI tumors. Androgen-responsive tumors had a sheetlike growth pattern; AI tumors formed clumps or irregular cords of cells. Cells from AR tumors cultured in the presence of DHT formed confluent pavements, whereas cells maintained in the absence of DHT and cells from AI tumors formed clusters or cords of cells. Ultrastructurally, cells of AR tumors were elongated; cells of AI tumors were smaller and rounder. These cellular morphologies persisted in culture. Tumofigenicity of cells was assayed by injecting cells s.c. into host mice. Tumors arising from cells of freshly dissociated AR tumors and cells of AR tumors cultured in the presence of DHT appeared more rapidly and grew faster in intact males than in castrated males and intact females. Tumors arising from cells cultured in the absence of DHT and from freshly dissociated or cultured cells of AI tumors had identical rates of appearance and growth in all hosts. This culture system permits these cells to retain their state of malignant progression in vitro and should be a useful model for studying the origin of heterogeneity within tumors and its role in tumor behavior. 
4295745|We report that synchronized cultures of Plasmodium falciparum with up to 40% parasitized cells can be obtained with the use of low, red blood cell suspensions and only daily replacement of culture medium. These cultures contained not only a reduced proportion of uninfected red cells but also a population of cells with brief and equal time of exposure to culture conditions. Such high parasitemias are desirable for studies of ring-staged parasites (for which enrichment techniques are not available) and late-staged parasites when the manipulations for enrichment are inappropriate or unsuccessful.
20171528| A serum-free culture system was used to compare the nutritional requirements of mouse mammary cells transformed by bovine papillomavirus type 1 (ID13 cells) and the uninfected parent line (C127 cells). The serum-free, chemically defined medium used for this study was an MCDB 151-based medium (MCDB 151+S+I), supplemented with epidermal growth factor, transferrin, hydrocortisone, ethanolamine, phosphoethanolamine, retinoic acid, trace metals, and insulin. Proliferation of either cell type in serum-free culture required the addition of 250 g/ml of insulin. ID13 cells have a doubling time of greater than 96 h in MCDB 151+S+I, whereas C127 cells have a doubling time of 60 h. This is in sharp contrast to the growth characteristics of the two cell types in 10% fetal bovine serum, where doubling times for the ID13 and C127 cells are 24 and 30 h, respectively. Culture of the cells in a serum-free medium has therefore revealed that the papillomavirus-transformed cells have more stringent growth requirements than the uninfected parent line. 
4296412| As basic studies of hyperthermia and hypothermia on malignant tumor, the kinetics of proliferative activity, the morphologic changes in the two cell lines, SGF-3 and SGF-5, established in our department after the change of culture temperature were examined. The results obtained were: a) A significant difference was found in the sensitivity to temperatures between the two cell lines originated from human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The temperature range allowing cultured cell to proliferate were from 31 to 39 C in SGF-3 and from 29 to 41 C in SGF-5. b) Minor difference occurred in the results between the two cell lines examined during the recovery of proliferative activity, but no proliferative activity was discovered after the cells were exposed to 42 C for 72 h. Two cell lines resumed their proliferation after having been exposed to 27 or 28 C for 72 h. c) Morphologic changes of the cell lines cultured at high temperature were cytoplasmic vacuolation and cell aggregation by phase contrast microscope and the increase of heterochromatin, the decrease of granular formation in nucleoli, and nucleolar vacuolation by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). At low temperatures the changes observed included cytoplasmic ballooning and circumnuclear halo formation by phase contrast microscope, and the increase of heterochromatin, nucleolar segregation, swelling of mitochondria, and dilatation of rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) by TEM. 
4296821|From a plaque biopsy of a patient with mycosis fungoides, two different continuous cell lines were established by including both IL-2 and IL-4 in the culture medium. Both continuous cell lines appeared with characteristic chromosome markers after approximately 40 cell population doublings. The initial karyotype recognized in T cells from the skin biopsy was 46,XY and the karyotypes of the continuous cell strains were 46,XY, -18, + i(18q) and another with multiple chromosome aberrations as described in Sezary T-cell leukemia. Phenotyping with monoclonal antibodies and T-cell receptor analysis indicates that the latter cell strain represents a minority of T-cells in the plaque. Due to its many chromosomal aberrations it probably represents the malignant cell, which may be a central cell in the immune stimulation taking place in the skin.
4295922|Recently it has been shown that Polybrene, in conjuction with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) shock, can markedly increase frequency of DNA transfection of chicken embryo fibroblasts as compared with the frequency obtained with the standard calcium phosphate protocol. We have adapted this procedure for use with diploid human fibroblasts. Using plasmid DNA containing a dominant selectable marker gene (resistance to Geneticin), we have determined that treatment of the cells for 6 h in culture medium containing Polybrene at a concentration of 2 to
4296006| Ten barbituric acid (BA) derivatives were synthesized and tested for their potency for supporting survival of functional hepatocytes from adult rats in primary culture. Of the 10 BA derivatives, 7 compounds (C-2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, and 10) efficiently supported hepatocyte survival for at least 2 wks in primary culture. Especially C-5, 6, and 9 showed excellent efficiency for such action. The optimum concentrations of the BA derivatives for observing the morphological and biochemical effects differed from each other. The maintenance of hepatocytes was attained only in the continuous presence of the BA derivatives in the medium. The morphologic features of hepatocytes surviving in the presence of the BA derivatives resembled those of hepatocytes 24 h after inoculation. The surviving hepatocytes secreted remarkably large amounts of albumin into the culture media. Tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) activity was higher in the 1-wk-old cultures treated with C-5, 6, and 9 than in the freshly isolated hepatocytes. The addition of dexamethasone (10 M) caused a 1.7 to 2.1-fold induction in TAT activity. The basal levels of TAT activity and the induction rates increased in the cultures treated with C-5 and 6 from Week 1 to 2 of primary culture. 
4296096|A new superfusion, two-compartment culture system recently developed in our laboratory was used to investigate the dynamic changes in bidirectional secretion of transferrin (Trf) and androgen binding protein (ABP) by rat Sertoli cells (Sc) cultured for up to 12 d under various experimental conditions. The system is unique in that the cells are grown on porous substrate and can be superfused independently at the apical (A) and basal (B) surfaces. The Sc formed confluent monolayers with tight junctions and were highly polarized, morphologically resembling their normal appearance in vivo. The bidirectional secretion patterns (total amount and A:B ratio) of both Trf and ABP were affected by the addition of hormones (testosterone, 10
4295920| Cis-diamminedichloroplatinum II (cis-DDP), an antitumor drug and the inactive trans-isomer were studied to evaluate their effects on cell multiplication, DNA synthesis, and surface morphology of the murine erythroleukemia cells (clone 6A11A). Short-term treatment of cells (1 h) with 5 and 10 g/ml of cis-DDP resulted in a significant inhibition of cell multiplication. Continuous treatment with cis-DDP (up to 144 h) significantly arrested cell growth at 1, 5, and 10 g/ml. The cells exposed to 10 g/ml trans-DDP exhibited a slight decrease in cell multiplication; however, the 25-g/ml treatments showed a modest inhibition of cell growth. Continuous treatment with cis-DDP resulted in a concentration-dependent decrease in DNA synthesis, although low-dose treatment (0.05 and 0.1 g/ml), with a few exceptions, had no relative inhibitory effect. Likewise, trans-DDP treatments decreased tritiated thymidine incorporation; however, this inhibitory effect was not as drastic as with corresponding concentrations of cis-DDP. Scanning electron microscope studies revealed the formation of many giant cells and blebs at all short-term treatment concentrations of cis-DDP past the 48 h interval. Continuous treatment of cis-DDP at 1 g/ml concentration produced giant cells with minute holes, whereas the 5 and 10 g/ml exposure resulted in the formation of blebs and large holes and reduction of microvilli past the 48-h treatment period. At higher concentrations the continuous treatment of cis-DDP completely destroyed the cells. The surface morphology of trans-isomer treated cells, in most instances, resembled the corresponding untreated control cells. 
20171516|Plasmodium berghei exoerythrocytic (EE) stages have been cultured in vitro in human continuous cell lines and primary cultures of both human and rat hepatocytes. Although the predominant experimental model of irradiated sporozoite-induced protective immunity is the mouse, P. berghei has not been cultivated in primary mouse hepatocytes or in continuous mouse lines. Because of this, target cells are not available for determining if these immunized mice produce cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) that recognize P. berghei antigens expressed on hepatocytes in the context of class I major histocompatibility (MHC) antigens. We report the development of methods for cultivating the (EE) stage of P. berghei in murine hepatocytes and in two cell lines derived from the livers of BALB/c mice; one line produced from a primary hepatocyte culture and the other produced by fusion of mouse hepatocytes with a continuous rat liver line. Mature parasites were detected by microscopy and by DNA probe in both cell lines, each of which supported complete development of P. berghei liver stages and production of infectious merozoites. Since class I MHC antigens are present on the surface of primary hepatocytes and the mouse  rat hybrid line, these cells can be used to detect cytotoxic T cells against liver stage parasites.
4296274|Specific interactions between cells and the extracellular matrix (ECM) in which they are embedded play a vital role in tissue organization. In recent years, many of the individual components of the extracellular matrix have been isolated and their molecular structures elucidated, but the detailed topography of most extracellular matrices, as they are deposited by cells, is still largely unknown. In this study, the insoluble extracellular matrix produced by cultured rat vascular smooth muscle cells has been characterized morphologically using high-resolution electron microscopy of rotary platinum replicas. These cells grew as flat sheets in culture, secreting their matrix laterally and basally. The matrix was composed of a cross-linked fibrillar meshwork. Some fine fibers (10 to 15 nm in diameter) were naked, but most of the filamentous mesh was covered with coarse granular material. Limited digestion with trypsin or pancreatic elastase removed most of this coating, indicating that the granules were glycoproteins and proteoglycans. Another subset of matrix fibrils (20 to 40 nm in diameter) was identified as type I collagen by direct comparison with purified bovine skin collagen. In addition to exposing the underlying filamentous substructure of the matrix, protease treatment also revealed large, straight fiber bundles and globules of amorphous material suspended in the filamentous web. This novel view of a complex matrix promises to provide spatial information that will be useful in future studies of cell interactions with the ECM.
4296405|It is possible to treat dissociated embryonic rat dorsal root ganglia in culture to inhibit proliferation of all nonneuronal cells except Schwann cells. Neurons have been shown to produce a mitogenic stimulus for Schwann cells under these conditions. Additionally, myelin-competent neurons induce Schwann cells to elaborate myelin sheaths. Groups of sibling cultures were exposed to various nonlethal concentrations of ethanol (0, 43, 86, or 172 mM) for 4 wk. Cultures were assessed weekly by light microscopy in a blind fashion for evidence of Schwann cell proliferation and myelin formation. Ethanol adversely affected both Schwann cell proliferation and myelin formation in culture. No obvious differences in neuronal morphology were observed among the various groups of cultures by light or electron microscopy. These observations suggest that ethanol might interfere with Schwann cell proliferation and myelin formation in culture by one or both of the following means: a) inhibit neuronal production of signals for Schwann cell proliferation and myelination or b) impede Schwann cell responses to neuronal signals. Investigation of these possibilities in culture may provide insight into neuropathologic mechanisms operative in the fetal alcohol syndrome or alcohol-associated peripheral neuropathy in humans.
4295808|Serum-free media were developed to grow diploid fetal rhesus monkey lung (DBS-FRhL-2) cells and to propagate dengue-type 2 virus vaccine strain PR-159 (dengue-2 vaccine virus). Vitamins, amino acids, growth factors, hormones and other organic compounds, and inorganic salts were substituted for fetal bovine serum. The composition of the medium that was optimal for growth of DBS-FRhL-2 cells differed from medium optimal for the propagation of dengue-2 vaccine virus. Insulin, epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, and platelet-derived growth factor were required for DBS-FRhL-2 cell proliferation in serum-free medium but were inhibitory for virus propagation. Adenosine, cytidine, guanosine, uridine, and thymidine, each at 0.01 mM concentration, were necessary as medium supplements to obtain a high yield of dengue-2 vaccine virus in DBS-FRhL-2 cells under serum-free conditions. DBS-FRhL-2 cells grown in serum-free medium produced dengue-2 vaccine virus with yields similar to those of cells grown in the presence of serum. Dengue-2 vaccine virus obtained under serum-free conditions retained its phenotypic markers such as temperature sensitivity and small plaque size.
4296619| The direct effects of propranolol and metoprolol were studied on cultured neonatal rat ventricular myocytes by recording cellular contraction with a video signal analyzer of cells movements. The experiments were performed on 3-d-old cultures forming a synchronously beating monolayer. The spontaneous beating frequency of preparations depended on cultures and varied from 100 to 330 beats/min with a peak for the interval 140 to 149 beats/min. Propranolol and metoprolol were tested at 1, 5, 10 M and 10, 50, 100 M, respectively. At these doses the two -blockers induced chronotropic and inotropic effects in the same range. The two agents induced rapid and short-lasting negative inotropic effects, which were dose-dependent and delayed negative chronotropic effects even with the lowest doses. In some preparations paradoxal effects were evidenced: an increase of the amplitude or frequency of the contractions was observed. The results obtained with 5 M propranolol or 50 M metoprolol could be separated in two groups depending on the basal beating rate (< or > to 150 beats/min). In cultures with a rapid frequency, the drugs had a marked negative chronotropic effect and, surprisingly, a positive inotropic effect was observed. These findings confirm the interdependence of the two parameters frequency and amplitude of contraction on this model, and evidence the interest of taking into account the control parameters before any interpretation. 
4296095|An optimized basal nutrient medium, MCDB 131, has been developed that supports clonal growth of human microvascular endothelial cells (HMVEC) with as little as 0.7% dialyzed fetal bovine serum (dFBS) when also supplemented with 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF) and
4296080|An improved method for the attachment and growth of normal human colonic epithelial cells from minute 1 to
4296034|Vaginal and uterine stromal (VS and UtS) cells have been cultured in a collagen gel matrix, and the ability of the cells to retain their identity and interact normally with epithelia after culture was examined. Stromal explants from 2-d-old mice were plated onto an extracellular matrix covered with collagen, and maintained in Ham's F12:DMEM (1:1) containing 15% fetal bovine serum. The fibroblastic stromal cells invaded and eventually filled the overlying collagen during the 4-wk growth period, and the total DNA of the UtS and VS cultures increased 3.5- and 4-fold, respectively. To assess the ability of the cultured stroma to perform its normal functions after the in vitro period, recombinations of cultured stroma and fresh epithelia were prepared and transplanted under the renal capsule of female hosts and grown for 4 wk. The epithelium in recombinants of cultured VS + vaginal epithelium (VE) and cultured UtS + uterine epithelium (UtE) was histologically normal and proliferated in response to estrogen. Cultured stroma also instructively induced heterologous epithelium; VS induced UtE to undergo vaginal differentiation, and UtS induced VE to undergo uterine differentiation. These results indicate that UtS and VS retain their identity and do not irreversibly dedifferentiate in culture. Stromal cells grown in a collagen gel matrix form a functional stroma; they interact normally with epithelium after culture and express normal permissive and instructive inductive functions when reassociated with epithelium and grown in vivo.
4295929|Comparisons were made of attachment and viability of rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) hepatocytes in short-term (2 days), primary culture on plastic, collagen-coated or extracellular matrix (ECM) coated dishes. Hepatocyte isolation routinely yielded cells with good viability (96%). Cells plated on ECM attached with high efficiency (93%) in contrast to cells cultured on plastic or collagen (~ 20%). The cells plated on ECM flattened out and formed monolayers, while the cells on plastic and collagen rounded up and formed multi-cell aggregates in suspension. Viability of cells in all substrates remained high over the 2 day culture period. ECM is the first substrate to support trout-hepatocyte attachment in primary culture. Differentiated liver function was maintained in cells cultured on ECM as evidenced by the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase by hydrocortisone (200%).
4296783|The sulfate and glucuronide conjugation of acetaminophen (APAP) by hepatocytes cultured on Matrigel or type 1 collagen was compared to APAP metabolism in vivo. The metabolic fate of low (15 mg/kg), medium (125 mg/kg), and high (300 mg/kg) doses of APAP injected intraperitoneally were determined in male and female rats. Males excreted more APAP as the sulfate conjugate than females, which correlated with the twofold greater APAP sulfotransferase activity in the male vs. females (
4296198|Purified heparin-binding growth factor-1 (HBGF-1) stimulated low density lipoprotein binding, internalization, and degradation in isolated human adult arterial smooth muscle cells. Exposure of quiescent cells to HBGF-1 in serum-free, defined medium increased both low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity and de novo cholesterol biosynthesis. Both events preceded the onset of DNA synthesis by 6 to 9 h. HBGF-1 acted additively with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) to maximally stimulate cell surface LDL receptor binding activity and DNA synthesis in the smooth muscle cells. The presence of LDL was required for maximal mitogenic activity of HBGF-1 and PDGF. In the presence of LDL, growth factor-stimulated, proliferating human smooth muscle cells accumulated cholesterol ester and triglycerides. The results suggest that HBGF-1, PDGF, and LDL act together to promote the maximal proliferation of smooth muscle cells in culture. Chronic exposure to the three growth promoters may contribute to the smooth muscle cell hyperplasia and lipid accumulation observed in atherosclerotic lesions.
20171423|Human sweat duct cells from the coiled reabsorptive segment have been cultured successfully, free from fibroblasts, in a low serum, hormone-supplemented medium, Ham's F12. The cultured cells exhibited a typical epithelial cobblestone pattern, and microvilli-covered luminal cells were seen joined together with typical junctional complexes. In cultures derived from normals and patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), growth and morphologic characteristics were indistinguishable. When grown on a membranous support, and mounted in an Ussing chamber, vectorial electroconductive ion-transport could be identified. The epithelial preparations produced active mucosa to serosa-directed sodium flux via amiloride-sensitive, apical sodium channels and ouabain-sensitive sodium pumps located in the basolateral membrane, which also contained a potassium shunt. These findings are consistent with a polarized epithelium with properties similar to the intact organ. High transepithelial resistance and increased amiloride sensitivity were typical for cells derived from CF, indicating that principal normal as well as pathologic properties of the sweat duct are preserved in culture.
4296377| Primary cultures of mouse mammary epithelial cells synthesize significant quantities of chondroitin and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (16). Long term treatment of such cultures with p-nitrophenyl--D-xylopyranoside leads to a 10-20 fold increase in the synthesis and secretion of free chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains and assembly of a cell-associated matrix that is relatively enriched in heparan sulfate proteoglycan. This modulation of cell-synthesized proteoglycans leads to significant changes in cell morphology and cellular differentiation. Notably cells cultured on plastic culture dishes change from being flattened to cuboidal. The synthesis of the milk proteins 1, 2, and -casein is also increased as is the formation of fat droplets and fat droplet membrane components. Promotion of differentiation increases with increasing xyloside concentration in the range 0-1.5 mM, but there may be a block in secretion at higher xyloside concentrations. While the detailed mechanisms remain to be elucidated, we conclude that the composition of proteoglycans incorporated into the matrix (and possibly the glycosaminoglycans secreted into the medium), may play a significant role in maintaining the phenotypic characteristics of terminally differentiated mammary epithelial cells. 
20171545|It was possible to reconstruct epidermis in vitro by seeding dissociated keratinocytes on de-epidermized dermis and growing such recombined cultures for 1 wk, exposed to air, at the surface of the culture medium. These conditions were chosen to mimic the transdermal feeding and the exposure to the atmosphere that occur in vivo. Contrary to classical cultures performed on plastic dishes covered with culture medium, which show rudimentary differentiation and organization, the architecture of the stratified epithelium obtained in reconstructed cultures and the distribution of differentiation markers such as suprabasal keratins, involucrin, and membrane-bound transglutaminase were similar to those of the epidermis of skin biopsies; moreover, biochemical studies showed that the synthesis of the various keratins and the production of cornified envelopes was similar to what is found with skin specimens. The reconstructed epidermis model was found to be very useful to study in vitro the effect of retinoic acid on keratinocyte differentiation and epidermal morphogenesis.
4296809| Previous work has suggested that subcultivated human fetal heart muscle cell cultures contain immature cardiac muscle cells capable only of limited differentiation after mitogen withdrawal. We studied several human fetal heart cultures (14-15 wk gestation) at several passage levels using immunocytochemistry, autoradiography, and Northern blot analysis. Characteristics in high-mitogen (growth) medium were compared with those after serum withdrawal. Cultured cells from one heart, expanded through 2 passages in growth medium, did not beat; however, 75% of cells did beat after subsequent culture for 24 days in low-serum (differentiation) medium containing insulin. In confluent cultures after 1 passage, there was no detectable difference in the number of cardiac myocytes present in growth medium compared with that 7 days after serum withdrawal. After 4 passages, however, serum withdrawal increased the number of cells expressing immunoreactive sarcomeric myosin heavy chain by 100-fold; expression of immunoreactive sarcomeric actin and -cardiac actin mRNA also increased in the same cultures. Similar results were obtained in cultures kept in differentiation medium for 20 days before passage and expansion in growth medium. Using isopycnic centrifugation, a high-density cell fraction was isolated which contained no immunostained myocytes in growth medium but numerous myocytes after serum withdrawal. Combined immunocytochemistry/autoradiography showed that myocytes synthesize DNA in growth medium and in serum-free medium containing fibroblast growth factor, but not in serum-free medium alone. The results indicate that a) human fetal cardiac muscle cells proliferate in vitro and can maintain a phenotype characteristic of fetal myocytes after multiple subcultivations followed by serum withdrawal; b) after subcultivation in growth medium, some myocytes modulate their phenotype into one in which detectable levels of cardiac contractile proteins are expressed only after mitogen withdrawal, and c) the phenotype attained after serum withdrawal is in part dependent on passage level. Cultured human fetal myocardial cells may provide a useful experimental system for the study of human cardiac muscle cell biology. 
4295719|Amphotericin B inhibits hydroxymethylglutarylcoenzyme A (HMGCoA) reductase activity and incorporation of
20171400| A method for culturing endothelial cells (HCC-EC) from surgical specimens of human corpus cavernosum has been developed. The approach involves selective endothelial outgrowth from explants and may be generally applicable to tissues whose endothelium is not amenable to isolation by routine mechanical or enzymatic methods. The tissue is minced into pieces which are placed onto gelatin- or fibronectin-coated tissue culture plastic, and grown in medium suitable for microvascular endothelial cell growth (Carson and Haudenschild, In Vitro 22:344-354, 1986). By Days 5 to 7 EC colonies are found. Within a day or two after the appearance of the EC colonies, a non-EC cell type appears and, if undisturbed, quickly overgrows the EC. An exploitable temporal separation between the emergence of EC and non-EC is obtained when both conditioned medium (from bovine aortic endothelium) and retinal extract are present during the outgrowth period. Explants are removed by pipetting at the first sign of the emergence of the non-EC cell type. Once isolated, HCC-EC do not require conditioned medium but do require either retinal extract or acidic fibroblast growth factor for survival and growth. Approximately 60% of the first passage cultures are at least 80% EC as judged by DiI-Ac-LDL labeling. One corpus (0.3  0.3  0.5 cm) usually produces 120 cm of primary culture within 2 wk. These EC form contact-inhibited monolayers and stain positively for Factor VIII. They have a doubling time at 6th passage of 48 h and a plateau density of 5 to 7  10 cells/cm. The availability of such cultures should facilitate the study of endothelium-mediated responses which play an important role in the erectile function of human penile corpus cavernosum. 
4296108|A new culture vessel for the growth of cells on biological substrata and under organotypic conditions is described. This device, named Combi-ring-dish (CRD), is composed of four concentric rings designed to take up one or several substrata on which cells can be grown either immersed in culture medium or exposed to air and fed from underneath. Using the CRD, outer root sheath cells, isolated from plucked human hair follicles and plated on growth-arrested 3T3 feeder layers, were grown on native collagen lattices populated with living human fibroblasts. After reaching confluence, the immersed cultures were recombined (in vitro) with pieces of freeze-killed dermis and grown further, exposed to air. Thus by mimicking epidermal growth conditions, differentiation was dramatically improved, compared to control cultures on plastic substratum. Virtually all morphologic features of interfollicular epidermis developed. This seems a suitable model to investigate the differentiation potential of human hair follicle cells.
4295882|Six glucagon-secreting cell lines designated as In-R1-G1, -G3, -G7, -G9, -G10, and -G11 were isolated from insulinoma cells (In-111-R1) by single cell cloning. A small amount of insulin was also detectable in the incubation medium when hormone secretion was stimulated by the addition of arginine or theophylline. These cell lines grew as monolayers and the population doubling times varied from 16.8 to 28.8 h. Karyologically these clones were aneuploid and the modes of chromosome numbers were 61 to 70. Electron microscopic examination of one of these clones showed that these cells contained moderately developed Golgi apparatus and a few secretory granules, which more or less resembled
4296433|A new culture method was used to study increases in wet and dry weight and soluble protein during normal development of the transparent lens. Seven different media with more than ten different additives were tested for their effects on cultured lens transparency. In vivo, rat lenses increased 53% in soluble protein content between 3 and 5.5 days of age. Only HL-1 serum-free medium containing 15 g/ml insulin plus 1-2 ng/ml BB platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), or 5-7 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF) allowed similar growth in vitro, during the same time period. Normal lens growth occurred in culture when fresh medium was delivered to lenses as a pulse every 4-6 hours. Lenses decreased in dry weight and soluble protein content, and became opaque when the same medium was delivered continuously. Lenses increased only 26% and 32% in soluble protein content when delivered pulses of HL-1 medium containing BB PDGF or EGF in the absence of insulin. We suggest that pulsatile delivery of medium containing insulin and PDGF or EGF stimulates lens growth during development in vitro. This pulsatile organ culture system is presented as a new approach for studying the effects of growth factors on cell proliferation, differentiation, and receptor regulation in a developing tissue.
4296082|Two key modifications of the previously reported method for isolation of goldfish xanthophores allowed the isolation and establishment of primary cultures of terminally differentiated melanophores from the Black Moor goldfish (Carassius auratus). First, pretreatment with 10
4296489|The effects of excision, light and cytokinin (<tex-math>$N^6-benzyladenine$</tex-math>) on <tex-math>$^{14}C-acetate$</tex-math> metabolism in cotyledons of Pinus radiata (D. Don) were determined. <sup>14</sup>CO<sub>2</sub> was released and the distribution of radioactivity into lipids, sugars, organic acids and amino acids was determined. While light and cytokinin generally caused some increase in metabolism, the effect of excision, i.e., wounding, was most pronounced. Specific metabolites examined (citrate, malate, succinate, alanine, aspartate, glutamate and glutamine) were at least 50% greater in <tex-math>$^{14}C-labeling$</tex-math> in excised cotyledons as compared to intact seedlings. This enhancement of wound metabolism would mask possible morphogenically-related changes occurring at that time.
4296330|A cell line derived from a human ovarian carcinosarcoma was established in tissue culture and in nude mice. Two sublines, LDF and HDF, separated by discontinuous density centrifugation were also established from the parent line JoN. The cloning efficiency of the JoN line was 21%. Morphologic features of adenocarcinoma cells characteristic of the parent JoN cells were retained in the sublines and clones; all lines showed the same karyotype and DNA content (pseudodiploid and pseudotetraploid). Keratin, as demonstrated immunohistochemically, was strongly expressed in the parent line JoN and the xenograft tumor, but not at all in the LDF sublines and only moderately in the HDF sublines. Vimentin, however, was expressed in neither the parent line JoN nor the xenograft tumor, but was present in both sublines. Transglutaminase and plasminogen activator activity was high in the parent line JoN. Neither, sublines nor clones showed the same high enzyme activity as the parent line. It is concluded that this human tumor line JoN is comprised of epithelial cells, capable of multidirectional differentiation.
20171555|Long-term cultivation of human corneal endothelial cells (HCEC) was optimized with respect to different components of the culture system: 25 different nutrient media, different sera, 6 mitogens and various substrates were tested in their ability to influence clonal growth and morphology of HCEC. F99, a 1:1 mixture of the two media M199 and Ham's F12, was the most effective basal medium in promoting clonal growth of HCEC. Among various sera, human serum and fetal bovine serum showed optimal growth promoting activities in combination with F99, whereas newborn bovine serum (NBS) was by far superior for the development of a typically corneal endothelial morphology. Crude fibroblast growth factor (FGF), or alternatively endothelial cell growth supplement, was absolutely essential for clonal growth of HCEC at low serum concentrations, for example 5% NBS. Formation of a monolayer with a morphology similar to corneal endothelium in vivo was observed only on culture dishes coated with basal membrane components such as collagen type IV, laminin, or fibronectin. The most pronounced effect on morphologic appearance was obtained by culturing the cells on the extracellular matrix (ECM) produced by bovine corneal endothelial cells. Moreover, ECM could substitute for crude FGF in clonal growth assays.
4295846|Routine regeneration of fertile plants from a tissue culture of soybean has been achieved. Serially propagated embryogenic cultures were initiated from immature embryos of many genotypes. Organized tissues developed only on the cotyledons of embryos. Genotypic variation in the frequency of initiation of embryogenic tissue was noted. However, embryogenic tissue cultures were generated from all genotypes tested. Embryogenic tissue was serially increased and underwent morphogenesis. Whole fertile plants were recovered. Cultures have been maintained for two years without loss of morphogenic competency.
4296168|Cartilage from larval (ammocoetes) and adult (prespawning upstream migrant) lamprey was successfully maintained both when cultured in vitro or grafted in vivo (on the chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) of host chick embryos). In addition teeth from adult lamprey were successfully cultured in vitro. Cartilages were cultured in supplemented Lebovitz's L15 medium at 15 and 20 C for periods of up to 56 d and in supplemented
4295782|A fluorometric procedure for measuring DNA was used to study growth and metabolic responses of eight cell strains of human foreskin fibroblasts. In preliminary studies this procedure gave more precise specific activity changes in N-acetyl-00D-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) than did a protein activity basis, when changes in this enzyme's specific activity were investigated as a function of experimental cell manipulation. When fibroblast growth in eight cell strains was compared in 134 MM D-fructose vs. 13.4 mM glucose-supplemented minimum essential media, a significant increase in cellular DNA (50%) and protein (45%) occurred over an 11-d period. No significant differences in media pH change, lactate production, or carbohydrate uptake occurred on a DNA basis when cell metabolism was compared over the last 24 h of culture in the two media. Cells grown in fructose-containing media tended to show a reduction in NAG specific activity when compared with those grown in glucose-containing media.
4296725|During experiments concerning the introduction of oncogenes into normal human keratinocytes, we observed long-lived colonies arising spontaneously at the same low frequency in control cultures as in those transfected with Ha-rasEJ or activated c-myc or both. Two of these were karyotyped early in their life span and showed additional chromosomal material on the short arm of chromosome 9 in one case and of chromosome 18 in the other, whereas the parental cells had a normal karyotype. This indicates the presence of a partial trisomy in each line, although the origin of the extra chromosomal material is not known. A similarly long-lived human keratinocyte line containing an isochromosome of the long arm of chromosome 8 has been described elsewhere. Together these results suggest that the spontaneous occurrence of long-lived lines is more common in human keratinocytes than in fibroblasts and that a triple dose of one or more genes may be the initial event in this process.
20171498| Regeneration of grass plants through tissue culture is affected by many factors including genotype and type and concentration of medium components, particularly growth regulators. Objectives of this research were to characterize differentiation and growth of callus from immature inflorescence-explants of a variegated bermudagrass, Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. cv. "Zebra," and to assess the effects of casein hydrolysate (CH) and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) concentrations on development of total callus mass and the embryogenic (E) portion. Immature inflorescences about 6 mm in length were inoculated in petri dishes containing modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) agar medium. Two levels of CH (0, 200 mg L) and four 2,4-D concentrations (1,3,5,7 mg L) in subplots were tested. Regeneration of 57 plants via somatic embryogenesis was achieved. Both fresh callus weight and E callus, expressed as a percentage of total callus, were significantly affected by CH and 2,4-D treatments. Maximum callus fresh weight and E callus concentration were attained in medium with 3 mg L 2,4-D. Addition of CH to the medium increased fresh weight and E callus within each level of 2,4-D, but not to the same extent as indicated by a significant (P&lt;.01) 2,4-D X CH interaction. Presence of CH and 3 mg L of 2,4-D maximized both fresh weight and percentage of E callus. 
4296111|A rat pulmonary alveolar macrophage (PAM) cell line (NR8383) was initiated in culture in the presence of a gerbil lung cell conditioned medium (GLCM), and has been propagated continuously for over 36 mo. When examined at different times throughout this in vitro period, NR8383 exhibited characteristics typical of macrophages: (a) Zymosan ingestion was seen in 90 to 98% of the cells examined; (b) Pseudomonas aeruginosa phagocytosis in 50 to 80%; (c) Nonspecific esterase activity in >95%. During the first 6 mo., the PAM replicated with doubling times approximating 15 to 20 d. Throughout this period, GLCM dependence was evident. After 27 wk in vitro, NR8383 replication increased markedly, and within 2 wk, the doubling time was less than 48 h. NR8383 was readily monitored by [
20171364|Rous sarcoma virus transformed Chinese hamster fibroblasts, clone CHR1-3, were established at high temperature, then subcloned. Six subclones with round and flat morphology harboring undeleted and partially deleted RSV proviruses, respectively, were seeded into serum-free synthetic medium with no macromolecular additives, and maintained for 2 mo. One flat subclone no. 14, fully designated sfCHR1-3.14 for its serum-free phenotype, was further propagated in the same medium. The cells grew exponentially in loosely attached monolayers and could be serially passaged on bare polystyrene with an average population doubling time of 46 h. Cell attachment could be improved by using collagen-coated polystrene or by adding a methionine supplement to the culture medium. Furthermore, the sfCHR1-3.14 cells could be subcloned and further grown in nonselective medium. The reversion rate of the sf phenotype was estimated to be 1 to 2%/cell generation. Evidence for an autocrinal stimulation was obtained by cloning efficiency assays showing a requirement for a threshold cell density. Slight growth stimulation could also be detected in assays using conditioned medium from sfCHR1-3.14 cells and serum-restricted wild-type (wt)NIH3T3, but not wtCHR1-3.14, cells as indicator cells. Finally, wtNIH3T3 cells used in these assays were assayed for serum-free growth and found to be able to develop their own sf phenotype; in this respect they resemble the previously established sfCHR1-3.14 cells.
4296129|A neonatal rat aorta smooth muscle cell culture system with a unique elastin-rich extracellular matrix was used as a model substrate for elastases. To study the susceptibility to solubilization of insoluble elastin, cultures were incubated in the presence of human neutrophil elastase (HNE) or porcine pancreatic elastase (PPE) and in the absence of serum for periods up to 45 min. Both the incubation media and cell layers were then assessed for elastin and collagen markers, total protein, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Although HNE and PPE exhibited comparable activity against elastin purified from the cell layer, HNE exhibited a 6.7- to 25-fold reduction in its elastin solubilizing activity using intact cell layers as compared with the purified elastin, whereas PPE exhibited only a 1.5- to 2.5-fold reduction. This effect could not satisfactorily be explained as preferential inhibition of HNE activity in the culture system, because the amount of protein solubilized by HNE was 59% that of PPE. The mean elastin content of PPE-solubilized protein was 110% that of the elastin content of the corresponding cell layer; the value for HNE-solubilized protein was only 16%. Thus, the amount of elastin per microgram of solubilized protein for HNE was 15% that for PPE. Possible explanations for the greatly diminished elastolytic activity of HNE in the culture system include the preference of HNE for other substrates in the cell layer, the inability of HNE to penetrate sufficiently into the cell layer, and the presence of sulfated glycosaminoglycans in the vicinity of the elastin that act in an inhibitory fashion. Although there was extensive proteolytic damage to the extracellular matrix, LDH and DNA measurements indicated that little loss of cells or cell viability occurred. The observed differences in elastolytic activity of HNE and PPE in the culture system parallel the relative emphysema-inducing potency of the ela stases in the hamster model of elastase-induced emphysema.
4295718| A short method is described for obtaining a large number of pure vascular smooth muscle cells in culture. The smooth muscle cells were isolated from human umbilical cord arteries digested twice by an enzyme mixture of collagenase, trypsin, elastase, and DNAase with addition of -tosyl-lysyl chloromethane. Primary cell culture and first subculture were not contaminated by endothelial cells, no Factor VIII being produced. The cultures consisted of smooth muscle cells as appeared from phase contrast and electron microscopy. 
20171588|Rabbit morulae and blastocysts were cultured in conventional culture media [Ham's F10 of BSM II supplemented with bovine serum albumin (BSA) or serum] or in Ham's medium supplemented with synchronous or asynchronous uterine flushings, mostly for 2 days, and afterwards investigated by light and electron microscopy and by autoradiography. Ultrastructure and cell proliferation differed considerably between cultured embryos and noncultured controls. Cultured embryos displayed more dead cells. They were developmentally retarded (predominance of smooth endoplasmic reticulum rather than the age-specific rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria still round to ovoid shaped) and showed nonspecific signs of cells damage (swollen mitochondria and Golgi complex vesicles, increased number of lysosomes). All these features were also present in embryos grown in uterine flushing-supplemented media, but were less pronounced. Cell damage and impaired cell proliferation had affected trophoblast cells more than embryoblast cells. Endoderm could be differentiated only if culture had been started with blastocysts--not with morulae--and seems to require uterine secretions. No significant ultrastructural differences were observed between embryos cultured in synchronous or in asynchronous uterine flushings. Present results indicate that cultured preimplantation rabbit embryos deviate clearly from those grown in vivo and maintain, for some time, a better cellular structure--and probably function--in the presence of uterine flushings than in conventional culture media. Specific abnormal morphologic features related to a particular medium could not be identified.
4295907|To avoid the need to preclot porous polyester (Dacron) vascular prostheses, we have proposed the use of a protein coating that will promote the growth and adhesion of endothelial cells. This study assessed the relative advantages of coating woven, knitted, and velour polyester fabrics with albumin, collagen, and a albumin-collagen mixture after preservation in saline or drying by a commercial dehydration process. Preclotted fabrics were used as controls. The cytocompatibility of these biopolymers was measured by an organotypic culture technique which relies on the migration of chick embryonic endothelial cells. After 7 d of culture the cytocompatibility was quantified by counting the cells in the area of migration and the morphology of the endothelial cells was observed by scanning electron microscopy. In general, the knitted and velour fabrics showed superior compatibility than the woven one. The results confirmed that collagen, either alone or combined with albumin, provides in most cases a more cytocompatible surface than albumin alone. A cell morphology most closely resembling that of natural arterial endothelial cells was observed on the albumin-collagen substrate.
4296602|We investigated the biosynthesis of phospholipid, neutral lipids, glycoproteins, and DNA in primary cultures of rat oxyntic mucosal cells. In addition, responses of these biosynthetic pathways to the gastric protective agent 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E
4296295|Primary myocardial cell cultures and freshly isolated cardiac cells in suspension respresent two isolated, whole cell models for investigating cellular transsarcolemmal <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange in response to a receptor-coupled stimulus. Studies were performed to characterize beta-adrenergic receptor binding, beta-adrenergic receptor mediated cellular calcium (<sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup>) exchange, and viability in purified primary myocardial cell cultures and freshly isolated cardiac cells in suspension obtained from 3- to 5-d-old Sprague-Dawley rats. In addition, beta-adrenergic receptor binding was characterized in whole-heart crude membrane preparations. All three preparations had saturable beta-adrenergic binding sites with the antagonist $[^{125}I]iodopindolol$ ($[^{125}I]IPIN$). The suspensions had a significantly lower B<sub>max</sub> ($42 \pm 6 fmol/mg protein$) than the membranes and cultures ($77 \pm 8$ and $95 \pm 10 fmol/mg protein$, respectively). The K<sub>D</sub> of the cultures ($218 \pm 2.0 pM$) was significantly higher than that for the suspensions ($107 \pm1.3 pM$) and membranes ($93 \pm1.3 pM$). Viability was significantly lower in the suspensions (57%) when compared to 94% viability in myocardial cell cultures after 3 h of incubation in Kreb's Henseleit buffer. Incubation of the cultures with $5.0 \times 10^{-7} M$ isoproterenol resulted in a significant increase in <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange as early as 15 s. In contrast, <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange into the suspensions was not increased. Although both primary cell cultures and cardiac cells in suspension possess saturable beta-adrenergic receptors, only the monolayer cultures exhibited functional beta-adrenergic receptor-mediated <sup>45</sup>Ca<sup>++</sup> exchange. Of the two intact cell models investigated, these data suggest that primary myocardial cell cultures are more suitable than cell suspensions for investigating beta-adrenergic receptor binding and functions in the postnatal rat heart.
4296087| Protoplasts of Brassica nigra (L.) Koch were isolated from stem peels of bolting racemes and cultured in 1.5 ml of VN1 liquid medium. The protoplasts in the liquid medium were plated on top of half strength MS medium supplemented with 400 mg/liter glutamine, 15 mg/liter glutathione, 50 mg/liter L-serine, 0.25 mg/liter 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.5 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 1.5% sucrose, and 5% mannitol, pH 5.7, solidified with 0.3% agarose. Ten percent of calli obtained from the protoplasts developed into plantlets within 4 wk after transfer onto 2N regeneration medium which contains MS salts plus 200 mg/liter casein hydrolysate, 0.625 mg/liter 6-benzylaminopurine, 0.625 mg/liter kinetin, 0.625 mg/liter 6-(,-dimethylallylamino)-purine, 0.625 mg/liter zeatin, 0.5 mg/liter 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, 1.5% sucrose, and 0.4% agarose. This is the first report of plant regeneration from B. nigra protoplasts. 
4295886|Forelimbs of Day 11 and Day 12 embryonic mice were excised and cultured for 3 d in the presence of either
4296101|Seven continuous primate cell lines were tested in three systems (nude mice, muscle organ culture, and soft agarose) for their ability to express characteristics usually associated with malignant cell lines. Five of the seven cell lines failed to produce tumors in nude mice, failed to show a tumor-like pattern of growth in muscle organ culture, and failed to produce colonies in soft agarose. The remaining two cell lines showed different degrees of tumorigenicity in nude mice, and gave frankly positive results in the two in vitro assays. In addition, one of these lines appeared to progress from potential to overt tumorigenicity. We conclude that acquisition of infinite life in primate cell lines is not invariably equivalent to the ability to form tumors.
4296998|The DiFi human colorectal cancer cell line was recently established from a familial adenomatous polyposis patient with extracolonic features characteristic of the Gardner syndrome. These cells have now been propagated for 150 passages in standard culture media and vessels without feeder layers or collagen coatings. They retain features of colonic epithelial cells such as surface microvilli, secretory vesicles, and desmosomes. Cytosol of DiFi cells contains a high level (502 U/mg protein) of the mucin CA 19-9. In addition, DiFi cells produce carcinoembryonic antigen, and induce tumors in athymic mice. Cytoskeleton analysis of DiFi cells by fluorescence microscopy showed a pronounced disorganization of actin cable structure. The isozyme genetic signature of DiFi cells is unique (0.01 probability of finding the same genetic signature in a different cell line), differs from that of HeLa cells, and has expressional features seen in other colorectal cell lines. The DiFi cell karyotype is tetraploid, contains many marker chromosomes, and shows numerous episomal particles. Two copies of chromosome 18 were absent, and only a single normal chromosome 17 was found. This parallels detection of allelic losses from DiFi cell DNA at loci on chromosomes 17p and 18 using molecular (cDNA) probes. DiFi cells clearly express transcripts for the c-myc proto-oncogene, the c-myb proto-oncogene, and the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Transforming growth factor beta inhibits DiFi cell growth in soft agar and suppresses c-myc expression in these cells. The value of this cell line in the study of genetic alterations in colorectal cancer is discussed.
4295997|Adult rat liver slices were maintained for 20 h in a novel organ culture system with minimal loss of viability and function. Potassium and adenosine triphosphate levels were maintained at in vivo levels, following an initial recovery period (2 to 4 h), for up to 20 h. Protein synthesis and secretion were linear for 20 and 16 h, respectively. In addition, the liver slices synthesized glycogen between 4 and 12 h in culture. Finally, the liver slices were hormonally responsive during the 20 h culture period as exemplified by glucagon-stimulated glucose production. This system provides a simple and effective method for the culture and biochemical maintenance of adult rat liver for 20 h with minimal loss of biochemical function.
4296387|The adult mouse submandibular salivary gland provides a good model system to study gene regulation during normal and abnormal cell behavior because it synthesizes functionally distinct products ranging from growth factors and digestive enzymes to factors of relevance to homeostatic mechanisms. The present study describes the long-term growth and differentiation of submandibular salivary epithelial cells from adult male mice as a function of the culture substratum. Using a two-step partial dissociation procedure, it was possible to enrich for ductal cells of the granular convoluted tubules, the site of epidermal growth factor synthesis. Long-term cell growth over a period of 2 to 3 mo. with at least 3 serial passages was obtained only within three-dimensional collagen gels. Cells grew as ductal-type structures, many of which generated lumens with time in culture. Electron microscopic analysis in reference to the submandibular gland in vivo revealed enrichment for and maintenance of morphologic features of granular convoluted tubule cells. Reactivity with a keratin-specific monoclonal antibody established the epithelial nature of the cells that grew within collagen. Maintenance of cell differentiation, using immunoreactivity for epidermal growth factor as criterion, was determined by both cytochemical and biochemical approaches and was found to be dependent on the collagen matrix and hormones. Greater than 50% of the cells in primary collagen cultures contained epidermal growth factor only in the presence of testosterone and triiodothyronine. In contrast, cells initially seeded on plastic or cycled to plastic from collagen gels were virtually negative for epidermal growth factor. Biochemical analysis confirmed the presence of a protein with an apparent molecular weight of 6000 which comigrated with purified mouse epidermal growth factor. Epidermal growth factor was also present in detectable levels in Passage 1 cells. This culture system should permit assessment of whether modulation of submandibular gland ductal cell growth can be exerted via a mechanism that in itself includes epidermal growth factor and its receptor and signal transduction pathway.
20171368|This study reports the results of a critical comparison of five statistical methods for estimating the density of viable cells in a limiting dilution assay (LDA). Artificial data were generated using Monte Carlo simulation. The performance of each statistical method was examined with respect to the accuracy of its estimator and, most importantly, the accuracy of its associated estimated standard error (SE). The regression method was found to perform at a level that is unacceptable for scientific research, due primarily to gross underestimation of the SE. The maximum likelihood method exhibited the best overall performance. A corrected version of Taswell's weighted-mean method, which provides the best performance among all noniterative methods examined, is also presented.
4296226|Retinoids and growth factors seem to be important for normal mammalian reproduction and development. High levels of retinoic acid are teratogenic and induce cleft palate in the mouse. Little is known concerning the mechanisms through which retinoids induce cleft palate. Palatal epithelia from CD-1 embryonic mice on Day 12 of gestation were isolated from the mesenchyme and cultured in serum-free media, with all-trans retinoic acid or 13-cis retinoic acid, with or without epidermal growth factor (EGF). The epithelia attached and grew, and the cells differentiated over a 72-h culture period. Binding of
4296559| Neutral red assay, as an index of cytotoxicity, has been applied to predictive screening of chemotherapeutic agents. Human hepatoma and melanoma tumor cells and normal melanocytes, keratinocytes, and fibroblasts were incubated for 2, 24, and 48 h with graded concentrations of cis-platinum (0.1 to 80 M), doxorubicin (0.01 to 100 M), and 5-fluorouracil (1 to 1000 M). Cells were most sensitive after 48 h. Tumor cells, based on 50% toxicity values, were 2-4 times more sensitive than the normal cells, except for cis-platinum, where only melanoma cells, as compared to normal melanocytes, showed a marked difference in cytotoxic response. Methotrexate (1 to 10 M) toxicity could be reversed in the presence of 100 M of leucovorin. This sensitive, rapid, and economical assay is suitable for preclinical screening and drug development. 
4296358|The glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content of rabbit skin, oral mucosa, and cultured
4296073|Recent results from several laboratories suggest that complex interactions between hormones and dietary carbohydrate may be responsible for regulating the induction of several hepatic lipogenic enzymes. Elucidation of these interactions requires the ability to culture hepatocytes for several days in serum-free medium where the hormones or carbohydrate or both present is strictly controlled. The functional response of primary adult rat hepatocytes was examined in a medium without exposure to serum, hormones, or carbohydrates and on three substrata commonly used to culture cells in a defined medium. Hepatocytes cultured on a floating collagen gel in which is embedded a nylon mesh possess cell attachment and morphologic characteristics superior to either cells cultured on a collagen-coated or fibronectin(Fn)-coated substratum. Cells cultured on the gel-mesh system retain insulin responsivity, as measured by protein synthesis rates and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) induction, for at least 6 d in culture. Under these conditions, insulin, dexamethasone, and fructose increase G6PD specific activity to levels comparable to that seen in an induced animal. Hepatocytes cultured on the gel-mesh system tolerate restricted medium conditions better than cells cultured on collagen or Fn-coated substratum, and remain viable for sufficient times to allow, for the first time, full expression and maximal induction (i.e. like in vivo) of G6PD in cultured cells. This system represents a satisfactory model for in vivo liver metabolism and a superior system for studying the effects of hormones and metabolites on G6PD levels, as well as other nutritional-hormonally regulated enzymes.
4296310|Although luteinizing hormone (LH) alone stimulates ovarian interstitial cells cultured in serum-free medium to synthesize large amounts of androgens, there seem to be additional factors in vivo that modulate the time course and magnitude of the cellular responses to LH. In an attempt to develop a more nearly physiologic cell culture model, lipoproteins, insulin, and insulinlike growth factor-I (IGF-I) were added to the serum-free medium. The effects of these modifications on androgen biosynthesis by dispersed cells from ovaries of hypophysectomized immature rats cultured in 96-well tissue culture plates were examined. A saturating dose of LH stimulated a 25-fold increase in androsterone synthesis at 2 d, which decreased at 4 and 6 d. Addition of human high density (hHDL) or human low density lipoprotein (hLDL) caused a 2.5-fold increase in LH-stimulated androsterone synthesis. Cells were approximately twice as sensitive to hHDL (
4296733|High cell density is required for high procollagen expression (50% of total protein synthesis) in primary avian tendon (PAT) cells but the signaling mechanism that triggers this response has been difficult to decipher. By using a quantitative in situ hybridization assay for procollagen mRNA, cell density dependent changes in procollagen expression can be followed at the single cell level. PAT cells can then be shown to respond to the presence of their neighbors over ~ 1-mm distance. The cell density signal remains effective independent of the medium volume to cell ratio but becomes sensitive to dispersion and dilution when the medium is agitated. PAT cells respond to a reduction in cell density, when neighboring cells are scraped away, by outgrowth (~1 mm) and reestablishment of a cell density gradient in cellular procollagen mRNA levels. However, removing neighboring cells while preventing migration off of their own extracellular matrix retards the drop in procollagen mRNA levels. The evidence, taken as a whole, is consistent with a model whereby the cell density signal is a loosely bound component of the cell layer thereby restricting its diffusion to two dimensions but making it susceptible to dispersion by medium agitation.
4296993|Previous studies have suggested that gap junctions may have a role in various uterine functions, including parturition. Because nickel has been demonstrated to increase uterine contractility in vitro, the effect of nickel (II) chloride on gap junctional communication was assessed in a tumorigenic uterine cell line, SK-UT-1 (ATCC HTB 114). Cells were exposed in vitro to
20171385| We report that cultured bovine calf aorta and human adult iliac artery smooth muscle cells release a soluble factor which causes spreading and separation of cells in normally tight, cohesive epithelial colonies, similar to the morphologic changes induced by the fibroblast-derived scatter factor (SF). Smooth muscle-derived SF was heat sensitive, trypsin labile, and nondialyzable, consistent with a protein (or proteins). Its effects on epithelium were not mimicked by a variety of proteolytic enzymes, growth factors, or hormones, and were not blocked by antiproteases or by antibodies to fibronectin and basic fibroblast growth factor. Epithelial cell proliferation was unaffected or only mildly stimulated by partially purified SF at concentrations that produced cell scattering. Both smooth muscle- and MRC5 human embryo fibroblast-derived SFs could be partially purified with similar elution patterns on a number of different chromatographic columns, including DEAE-agarose, heparin-sepharose, Bio-Rex 70, concanavalin A-sepharose, and MonoQ. SF from both sources bound tightly to heparin-sepharose, requiring 1.3 to 1.4 M NaCl for elution. The morphologically obvious cell scattering effect was markedly inhibited by soluble heparin at concentrations down to 5 g/ml, and this inhibition was prevented by protamine. These data suggest that vascular smooth muscle cells produce an epithelial cell scattering factor with properties similar to the fibroblast-produced factor, including a high affinity for heparin. Such factors are potentially important because they may represent a new class of proteins that primarily regulate cell mobility rather than growth and differentiation. 
4296109|The activities of three antioxidant enzymes, Superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, were monitored in isolated human renal adenocarcinoma tissues and in cultured human renal adenocarcinoma cells. The results were compared to the activities of these enzymes in the proposed cell of origin, isolated human proximal tubular tissues, and cultured proximal tubular epithelial cells. Strong modulation of these enzymes by culture conditions was observed in normal cells but not in carcinoma cells. Low levels of cellular lipid peroxidation, as assessed by levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), were observed in adenocarcinoma cells under the culture conditions tested with one exception: greatly elevated MDA was observed in renal adenocarcinoma cells grown on plastic in serum-free, chemically defined medium. This increased lipid peroxidation correlated with a loss of cell viability under these conditions.
4296068|Cell viability, cytochrome P-450 content, cell respiration, and lipid peroxidation were all investigated as a function of oxygen tension in adult rat hepatocytes in short-term culture (less than 9 h). The various oxygen tensions used in this study were obtained by equilibrating culture medium with air, air + nitrogen, or air + oxygen. Cell viability, as assessed by trypan blue exclusion, was significantly greater at all time points tested when hepatocytes were cultured in Ham's F12 medium containing
4295859|Limited lifespan human diploid fibroblast cells have been fused with the HeLa derived cell line HEB 7A which possesses transformed growth characteristics and unlimited division potential. HEB 7A expresses keratin intermediate filaments, while the fibroblast cells express only vimentin intermediate filaments. Independently arising clones of hybrids were examined for the presence of keratin by indirect immunofluorescence. Of 11 limited lifespan hybrids, all were keratin negative and possessed the growth characteristics of the fibroblast parent. Of 8 transformed hybrids, 6 arising early after fusion and 2 arising late, all were keratin-positive and simultaneously expressed the transformed growth characteristics of loss of density dependent growth inhibition, low serum dependence, and anchorage independence. It is concluded that the growth properties of these hybrids are associated with the type of intermediate filament expressed. The intermediate filament expression is therefore a marker of proliferative potential in these hybrids.
4296659|The extracellular matrix, particularly basement membranes, plays an important role in angiogenesis (blood vessel formation). Previous work has demonstrated that a basement membranelike substrate (Matrigel) induces human umbilical vein endothelial cells to rapidly form vessel-like tubes (Kubota, et al., 1988; Grant et al., 1989b); however, the precise mechanism of tube formation is unclear. Using this in vitro model, we have investigated morphologic changes occurring during tube formation and the cytoskeletal and protein synthesis requirements of this process. Electron microscopy showed that endothelial cells attach to the Matrigel surface, align, and form cylindrical structures that contain a lumen and polarized cytoplasmic organelles. The cytoskeleton is reorganized into bundles of actin filaments oriented along the axis of the tubes and is located at the periphery of the cells. The addition of colchicine or cytochalasin D blocked tube formation, indicating that both microfilaments and microtubules are involved in this process. Cycloheximide blocked tube formation by 100%, indicating that the process also required protein synthesis. In particular, collagen synthesis seems to be required for tube formation because cis-hydroxyproline inhibited tube formation, whereas either the presence of ascorbic acid or the addition of exogenous collagen IV to the Matrigel increased tube formation. Our results indicate that endothelial cell attachment to Matrigel induces the reorganization of the cytoskeleton and elicits the synthesis of specific proteins required for the differentiated phenotype of the cells.
4296353| A technique has been devised to attach adult rat hepatocytes to collagen-coated dextran microcarriers. Cells were cultured serum-free for 2 d and their viability, enzyme activities, glucose metabolism, and hormone responsiveness were compared to data obtained from conventional dish cell culture. The two different culture methods showed no difference in cell viability and morphology. Microcarrier-cultured cells exhibited hormone responsiveness comparable to dish cultures; glycolysis could be activated three-fold by the sole addition of insulin, and gluconeogenesis was increased by 40 to 50% by glucagon. During the 48-h culture glucokinase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activities declined at a similar rate in both culture systems. Long-term culture with 0.1 M insulin prevented the decrease of glucokinase activity. Insulin responsiveness (activation of glycolysis) was still pronounced after 48 h in culture. The microcarrier technique establishes a new in vitro liver system in which acute and long-term hormonal actions can be investigated using the technical advantages of a suspension culture. 
4296653|During the course of studies involving the in vitro manipulation of channel catfish peripheral blood leukocytes, spontaneous proliferation was observed with unexpectedly high frequency. Propagation of these spontaneously proliferating cells has resulted in the development of long-term (> 11 mo.) cell lines which stain positively for nonspecific esterase and peroxidase, are phagocytic for latex beads, and morphologically resemble mammalian monocytes or macrophages. These long-term cell lines also exhibit two important additional functional features. First, induction with lipopolysaccharide results in the secretion of relatively high levels of catfish high and low molecular weight species of interleukin-1 active on channel catfish and mouse T cells, respectively. Second, these cell lines are efficient antigen-presenting cells to autologous peripheral blood leukocytes for antigen specific in vitro proliferative and antibody responses. This antigen-presenting function is blocked by inhibitors known to prevent antigen processing and presentation by mammalian monocytes. Allogeneic mixtures of cell line (used as antigen-presenting cells) and responding peripheral blood leukocytes, however, resulted in strong mixed leukocyte reaction but not in specific antibody responses. The availability of such cell lines should facilitate further studies on accessory cell functions in fish immune responses.
4296451|Evidence is presented that a differentiated mesodermal line (MES-1) from P19 EC cells express a high chemotactic response to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) as assayed in a blind-well modified Boyden chamber. Compared to the NIH 3T3 fibroblasts the chemotactic response of MES-1 is increased by 10-fold at 0.3 ng/ml of PDGF, 4-fold at 1.25 ng/ml of PDGF, 2-fold at 2.5 ng/ml of PDGF. In contrast, PDGF induces the same increase in [
4296822|We have investigated the effects of interactions between growth factors and heparin-like glycosaminoglycans on untransformed human arterial smooth muscle cells (hASMC) in vitro. The results indicate that heparin in the presence of serum mitogens prevents the cells from entering the S phase of the cell cycle by binding and inactivating reversibly some serum mitogen(s). Our results suggest that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is one of them and that it is the most potent stimulator of hASMC growth in vitro. Thymidine incorporation as well as increase in DNA content was inhibited not only by the presence of heparin in serum-containing medium but also when serum was chromatographed on Heparin- Sepharose at physiologic salt concentrations before exposure to the cells. The mitogenic activity of the unretained serum fraction was restored by the addition of PDGF AA, AB, or BB dimers or of a fraction (RF I) that dissociated from Heparin-Sepharose at 0.2 to 0.6 M NaCl. Radiolabeled recombinant PDGF (c-sis) dissociated from Heparin-Sepharose within a concentration range of NaCl similar to that of RF I. Neither the unretained material nor the RF I or PDGF dimers were effective alone. The effect of RF I was significantly decreased by the addition of an anti-PDGF IgG that is known to neutralize the PDGF mitogenic activity partially. Addition of heparin abolished DNA-synthesis when the PDGF dimers or RF I were combined with the unretained fraction. A second fraction (RF II) bound strongly to Heparin-Sepharose and eluted between 1.1 and 1.6 M NaCl. The RF II also induced DNA synthesis but was neither as efficient as RF I nor depending on other serum fractions for growth promotion and it was not inhibited by anti-PDGF IgG. A similar strong affinity for Heparin-Sepharose was found for labeled basic fibroblast growth factor and we cannot exclude the possibility that RF II represent fibroblast growth factor. Under these culture conditions, inhibition of hASMC proliferation was directly correlated with the expression of smooth muscle specific alpha actin isoforms in stress fibers and the suppression of a proliferating cell-specific nuclear antigen. Conversely, stimulation of hASMC proliferation was associated with the opposite phenomenon. We conclude that heparin-like glycosaminoglycans influence growth and phenotype of hASMCs in vitro by binding and inactivating PDGF. Inasmuch as heparin-like substances constitute a significant proportion of the proteoglycan-associated glycosaminoglycans of the arterial wall, such mechanisms might be important for the development of atherosclerotic lesions.
20171367|Six different statistical methods for comparing limiting dilution assays were evaluated, using both real data and a power analysis of simulated data. Simulated data consisted of a series of 12 dilutions for two treatment groups with 24 cultures per dilution and 1,000 independent replications of each experiment. Data within each replication were generated by Monte Carlo simulation, based on a probability model of the experiment. Analyses of the simulated data revealed that the type I error rates for the six methods differed substantially, with only likelihood ratio and Taswell's weighted mean methods approximating the nominal 5% significance level. Of the six methods, likelihood ratio and Taswell's minimum Chi-square exhibited the best power (least probability of type II errors). Taswell's weighted mean test yielded acceptable type I and type II error rates, whereas the regression method was judged unacceptable for scientific work.
4296995|Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are potent inhibitors of myogenic differentiation. The recent observation that the endogenous expression of acidic and basic FGF by myogenic cells decreases coordinately with differentiation suggests a regulatory role for these growth factors in myogenesis. Inasmuch as other proteins known to influence myogenesis (e.g., MyoDl and myogenin) activate their own expression as well as the expression of other members of their family, we hypothesized that the FGFs might be capable of similar autoregulation. We examined the effect of exogenously supplied FGF on the abundance of the mRNAs encoding acidic and basic FGF in Sol 8 myoblasts, and demonstrate that either acidic or basic FGF stimulate, through paracrine mechanisms, the accumulation of the mRNAs encoding both of these FGFs. Thus FGFs can auto- and transregulate their own expression in a manner analogous to that observed for the myogenic determination proteins. In addition, similar to that previously observed for MyoDl, both acidic and basic FGF suppress myogenin expression in myoblasts. These results suggest two mechanisms whereby endogenously produced FGFs participate in the maintenance of the undifferentiated state of myogenic cells. These data provide support for paracrine, and suggest potential autocrine, roles for FGFs in the regulation of myogenic differentiation.
4296088|Using monoclonal antibodies against the major intermediate filament (10 nm) cytoskeletal proteins of Drosophila tissue culture cells, we showed by indirect immunofluorescence and immuno-electron microscopy that this cytoskeletal material also occurs in a non-filamentous configuration. Patches of fine granular material are detected in the cytoplasm of Kc cells but are absent in another Drosophila cell line (Schneider, line 2). These patches are surrounded by membranes with bound ribosomes, resembling endoplasmic reticulum, and are found throughout the cytoplasm. We suggest that these aggregates are caused by overproduction of intermediate filament material in the Kc cell line.
4296911|Injury to the gastrointestinal tract by oxygen dependent processes is important in ischemia, inflammatory bowel disease, and necrotizing enterocolitis. The Caco-2 cell line is an important tool in assessing various gastrointestinal functions and offers a unique opportunity to assess gastrointestinal oxidant metabolism on a cellular level. However, some Caco-2 cell functions change with time after confluence. To determine if antioxidant enzyme activity changes during differentiation, Caco-2 cells were grown to confluence, and Superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and catalase activities and specific mRNA content were quantitated. With time after confluence the enzymes demonstrated a small, but statistically significant increase in activity. Neither Superoxide dismutase nor glutathione peroxidase mRNA levels correlated with enzyme activity changes. Catalase mRNA levels increased as catalase activity increased. Thus, differentiated Caco-2 cells express Superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and catalase activities and the Superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase genes. Superoxide dismutase activity and glutathione peroxidase activity do not correlate with mRNA levels, and suggest that regulation may be at a level other than transcription. The correlation between catalase activity and catalase mRNA suggests differentiation may occur at transcription. If Caco-2 cells are used to elucidate oxidative metabolism, changes in activities of antioxidant enzymes as a function of cell differentiation should be considered.
4296164|Because low plating efficiencies of most human cancers severely limit the number of successful chemosensitivity tests that can be performed, we studied the growth-enhancing effects of hormonal growth factors on a variety of solid tumors. Dose-response studies with progesterone and estradiol indicated no benefit from adding these substances to the culture medium. This was true whether progesterone or estradiol was used alone or in the presence of other hormones. By contrast, epidermal growth factor (EGF) at concentrations from 10 to 100 ng/ml increased colony numbers up to 10-fold. Although insulin, hydrocortisone, and EGF used alone could either stimulate or inhibit the growth of specific tumors, the combination of all three (hormone mixture or HM) was always at least as good and usually better than any individual component in increasing cloning efficiency. HM-supplemented medium gave significantly increased colony counts in 41/46 tumors. Sensitivity to anticancer drugs was not changed in 63 paired drug tests.
4295787| The Syrian hamster has a diploid chromosome complement similar to humans in both number (2N=44) and morphology. For comparative mutagenic studies with humans, a repeatable lymphocyte chromosome technique involving laboratory mammals is desirable. The reported hamster lymphocyte cytogenetic technique appears technically uncomplicated and repeatable while providing a sufficient number of metaphase cells for quantitative analysis. In order to determine the effects of storing whole-blood (in culture media) for varying time periods at 8 C prior to adding a mitogen, the mitotic index was calculated following a 48-h culture period. Results indicated that storage up to six days can still result in a mitotic index adequate for cytogenetic analyses. 
4296501| Seven clonal epithelial cell lines from a thymoma of an (ACI/NMs X BUF/Mna)F1 rat and seven clonal epithelial cell lines from an ACI/NMs rat thymus were established in a medium containing 1 M dexamethasone (DM) and were characterized cytologically. Long-term treatment of DM stabilized the epithelial nature of these epithelial cells irreversibly. The established cell lines showed a polygonal shape, were positively stained with antikeratin antiserum and had tonofilaments and desmosomes. Species of their keratin peptides were the same as those of normal thymic epithelial cells in primary cultures. The cell lines were positively stained with Th-4 monoclonal antibody which preferentially stains the medullary epithelial cells of the thymus, but not with Th-3 which preferentially stains the subcapsular and cortical epithelial cells of the thymus. The cells from the rat thymoma were much larger than those from the normal thymus, as reflected in their primary cultures. No transformed phenotypes, such as high growth rate, high saturation density, anchorage independency, low serum dependency and so on, were found in the cell lines from the thymoma as in the cell lines from the normal thymus by in vitro assays. DNA synthesis of the thymic lymphocytes was stimulated by culturing with a line of rat thymoma with no lectins. Thymic lymphocytes strongly bound on the cell lines from the thymoma and changed the shape of the cells. These cell lines may be useful to investigate the mechanism of thymomagenesis and the interactions between epithelial cells and thymocytes in the rat thymoma. 
4296221| The influence of trout serum on the attachment and spreading of isolated trout hepatocytes maintained in primary culture at different temperatures was evaluated. Hepatocytes were obtained from young rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) by collagenase dissociation and maintained in modified Leibowitz L15 medium at 10 or 27 C for 24 h in plastic dishes previously coated with type I bovine collagen. In the absence of serum, fewer than 10% of hepatocytes attached and none of them spread on the collagen substrate. Trout serum at concentrations as low as 1.25% in the medium resulted in a pronounced concentration-dependent increase in hepatocyte attachment, as determined by direct counts by phase contrast microscopy, or by percentage of lactate dehydrogenase activity attached to the dishes after washing away unattached cells. Attachment rates were greater at the lower temperature (10 C). Trout serum also substantially increased the proportion of attached hepatocytes that spread as monolayers on the collagen substrate, especially at 10 C. By comparison, fetal bovine serum had little influence on the attachment or spreading of trout hepatocytes. These studies demonstrate a simple, inexpensive method for preparing attached monolayer trout hepatocyte cultures. This procedure may be useful in toxicologic or functional studies in which fish hepatocyte attachment is an operational requirement. 
4295954|An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed in order to serve in detecting and speciating mycoplasmas isolated from cell cultures. Its main features included a biotin-streptavidin amplification step and a solid phase consisting of a microporous membrane. Cell samples in the form of suspensions were applied to nitrocellulose or ion exchange membranes immobilized in commercially-available microtiter, multiwell manifolds. The blocking buffer contained 1% purified
4296502| Sustained growth of mouse ventral and anterior prostatic epithelial cells embedded within collagen gel matrix was achieved in a serum-free medium composed of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Ham's F12 medium, 1:1 (vol/vol), supplemented with bovine serum albumin fraction V, epidermal growth factor, transferrin, cholera toxin, prolactin, 5-dihydrotestosterone, cortisol, putrescine, fibroblast growth factor, and a trace element mixture. Three-dimensional growth of prostatic epithelial cells occurred inside the collagen gel matrix. This serum-free medium allowed cell growth greater than sevenfold over 10 d in culture. Tissue recombination and cell culture techniques were integrated to demonstrate that cultured cells retained prostatic characteristics. Following 10 d of culture, epithelial colonies from mouse ventral and anterior prostatic epithelial cell cultures were isolated and combined with rat fetal urogenital sinus mesenchyme and grown for 4 wk under the renal capsule of intact athymic male mice. These tissue recombinants showed distinctive prostatic histologic characteristics (alveoli and ducts lined with cuboidal or columnar epithelium surrounded by stroma). When histologic sections of recombinants were stained with the Hoechst 33258, epithelial cells of mouse origin were distinguishable from stromal cells of rat origin. 
4296769|In the present report we have investigated the role that the physical properties of substrata play in modulating the effects which components of extracellular matrix (ECM) exert on adhesion, spreading, and growth of retinal pigmented epithelial cells. By simple modifications of conditions for protein adsorption on glass we obtained a set of substrata all coated with proteins of ECM (protein carpets) but with different physical properties. Using these protein carpets we have shown that their stability (desorption rate) in tissue culture conditions varies according to the technique with which they were prepared. Both semiremovable and immobilized carpets are stable, whereas removable protein carpets desorb readily. Therefore, the protein concentration or composition or both may change with time in tissue culture depending on the technique used to prepare the carpet. In addition, efficacy of cell attachment to given protein may vary depending on whether a technique used to prepare the protein carpet involves denaturation of the protein. Adherent cells quickly remove (clear) weakly adsorbed protein carpets and it seems that the carpet removal is a mechanical process. During the carpet removal cells are rounded, which indicates that a spread cell phenotype normally associated with stress fibers and focal contacts occurs when the substratum is rigid enough to sustain cell traction. In addition, substrata lacking the rigidity to support the spread phenotype do not support cell proliferation either.
4295804|The JTC-12. cell, an established cell line derived from a normal monkey kidney, was studied in an attempt to characterize the epithelial qualities. Phase contrast microscopy showed dome formation in confluent monolayers and electron microscopic examinations revealed the presence of numerous microvilli on the apical membranes and desmosome between cells. Sonicated cells showed activities of
4295885|The attachment, proliferation, and differentiation of primary cultures of keratinocytes isolated from murine epidermis were monitored after purified cell suspensions were seeded and incubated in vitro on various synthetic membranes. Concomitant studies of the effects of attachment factors added to synthetic membranes before use as substrata for keratinocytes were also done. The study demonstrated that a synthetic membrane composed of nylon was superior to other membranes and to plastic control culture vessels in supporting the growth of murine keratinocytes. Although laminin enhanced initial attachment and proliferation of cells on nylon membranes, the untreated substratum was more effective for extended incubation. Stratification and differentiation of these keratinocytes on the nylon substratum was enhanced by raising confluent cultures (7 d) to the air-medium interface so that they were in contact with medium only from the bottom. Cultures raised for 14 d produced many morphologic markers of the epidermis and closely resembled the architecture of this tissue in situ.
4295974|A new microencapsulation technology, developed for the encapsulation of living cells, has been demonstrated to be useful for the study of growth and differential gene expression using Friend erythroleukemic cells cultured at high cell densities. Using this technology, cultures of FL Clone 745 cells were encapsulated within semipermeable membranes composed of cross-linked alginic acid and poly-l-lysine. Cell growth studies measuring total cell number demonstrated an average generation time of 8.5 h in 5% (vol/vol) microcapsule cultures vs. 8.0 h in suspension cultures. Similar microcapsule cultures were serially propagated for more than 90 cell generations (13 sequential passages) with no significant change in this growth rate. In addition, final culture densities of greater than
20171544|The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of various concentrations of serum on the behavior of neonatal condylar cartilage when cultured in an organ culture system. Mandibular condylar cartilages were obtained from newborn ICR mice, of which the zone of undifferentiated chondroprogenitor cells along with a few layers of young cartilage cells were cultivated at the medium-air interface. The incubation medium included fetal bovine serum at concentrations ranging from 0 to 10%, and the explants were kept in vitro up to 10 d. The serum-free medium maintained the chondrogenic expression, and the overall size of the cartilagenous portion of the explants increased with the decrease of the concentrations of serum in the medium. When explants were labeled with [H]thymidine and were then processed for autoradiography, the peak of labeling was noticed at 48 h, a feature that recapitulated itself in all cultures (73, 140, 175, 201, and 129 labeled cells per chondroprogenitor zone in explants grown in 0, 1, 2.5, 5, and 10%, respectively). It can be concluded that serum-free medium maintains the chondrogenic phenotype of condylar cartilage in vitro.
4295821|Previous studies have shown that extracts from mouse embryos at mid and late stages of development contain factors that exhibit transforming growth factor activity. The work reported here demonstrates that cultured mouse embryos at significantly earlier stages of development produce and release factors that exhibit the characteristic property of transforming growth factors. Specifically, the data demonstrate that embryos cultured from the blastocyst stage in serum-containing medium or in serum-free medium release factors that promote the anchorage-independent growth of normal rat kidney fibroblasts. It is shown that these factors are produced and released by cells derived from the inner cell mass and by trophoblasts. The precise developmental stage when production of these factors first begins has not been determined but our findings suggest that these factors are produced by cell types associated with early postimplantation embryos.
4296415|Primary muscle cell cultures consisting of single myocytes and fibroblasts are grown on flexible, optically clear biomembranes. Muscle cell growth, fusion and terminal differentiation are normal. A most effective membrane for these cultures is commercially available Saran Wrap. Muscle cultures on Saran will, once differentiated, contract vigorously and will deform the Saran which is pinned to a Sylgard base. At first, the muscle forms a two-dimensional network which ultimately detaches from the Saran membrane allowing an undergrowth of fibroblasts so that these connective tissue cells completely surround groups of muscle fibers. A three-dimensional network is thus formed, held in place through durable adhesions to stainless steel pins. This three-dimensional, highly contractile network is seen to consist of all three connective tissue compartments seen in vivo, the endomysium, perimysium and epimysium. Finally, this muscle shows advanced levels of maturation in that neonatal and adult isoforms of myosin heavy chain are detected together with high levels of myosin fast light chain 3.
4295761|Rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri) hepatocytes were isolated using a two-step perfusion through the portal vein. A typical perfusion yielded
4296015|Newborn rat adipocyte precursors, isolated from inguinal fat pads of 2 day-old NBR rats proliferate and undergo adipose differentiation in defined medium in the absence of serum when cultivated on polylysine coated dishes in DME-F12 medium supplemented with fibronectin, insulin, transferrin and FGF. After 7 days in culture in these conditions, 90% of the cells have undergone differentiation as measured by the increase of G3PDH specific activity and by the accumulation of triglycerides in their cytoplasm. In contrast, the cells cultivated in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum, have a limited ability to differentiate. These results indicate that newborn rat adipocyte precursors from inguinal fat pads do not require the presence of an undefined adipogenic factor in order to differentiate in culture. In contrast, proliferation and differentiation are dependent on the presence of insulin in the culture medium. Moreover, the data presented in this paper show that the rat adipocyte precursor culture represents a rapid and reproducible system for investigating the processes of adipose tissue development and for studying the negative and positive regulators of the adipose differentiation in a controlled environment.
4296008|Cells of the dental papilla are capable of odontoblastic, fibroblastic, and endothelial differentiation and formation of dentin and the dental pulp. In the present study dental papilla cells, obtained from human tooth buds (HDP cells), were cultured in vitro through 3 to 7 passages. After exposure to prostaglandin E
4296452|Morphologic changes in a rat skeletal muscle cell line (L6) exposed for 1 h to the parenteral antibiotics amphotericin B (AMP), tetracycline-HCl (TET), erythromycin lactobionate (ERY), and cephaloridine (CEP) were characterized by transmission and scanning electron microscopy and compared to cellular release of creatine phosphokinase (CPK). AMP (0.05, 0.1, 0.5 mg/ml) caused a concentration-related swelling of nuclei, endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria. Loss of membrane integrity associated with AMP exposure was evident at the middle concentration and extensive at the high concentration, which correlated well with the 43 and 90% depletion of CPK from the muscle cells, respectively. TET (0.25, 1.0, 2.5 mg/ml) caused dilation of endoplasmic reticulum and cytoplasmic blebbing at the low concentration but had no effect on the cytoplasmic membrane or CPK. Cells exposed to the high concentration of TET had extensive damage to the cytoplasmic membrane, and CPK was completely depleted. ERY (2.5, 5.0, 25 mg/ml) caused a pattern of morphologic changes and CPK depletion similar to TET. CEP (4.0, 20, 50 mg/ml) had no effect on membrane integrity or CPK; however, membranous whorls were prominent in the cytoplasm. A good correlation between CPK release and cytoplasmic membrane integrity was evident and the ability of these agents to release CPK from muscle cells in culture correlated with the known irritancy potential of these parenteral antibiotics. Furthermore, CPK depletion seems to be a reliable indicator of muscle cell damage after cytoplasmic membrane perturbation and is therefore an appropriate index of toxicity in this in vitro muscle irritation model.
4295748|Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUV-EC) grew rapidly in vitro in medium supplemented with epidermal growth factor, fetal bovine serum (FBS) and human diploid fibroblast-conditioned medium. The effect of FBS could be replaced partially by bovine serum albumin, cholesterol, and vitamin E, and completely by further addition of serum dialysate or refeeding every other day. Among these components, fibroblast-conditioned medium is essential for HUV-EC growth. The HUV-EC were cultured serially for over 50 population doublings in the 10% FBS containing fibroblast-conditioned medium and for over 40 population doublings in the serum-free medium. Mitogenic factor(s) present in the medium conditioned by fibroblasts may be related to endothelial cell growth factor and play an important role in angiogenesis and regeneration of vascular endothelium in vitro.
4296621|F9 teratocarcinoma cells differentiate into parietal endodermlike cells when treated with retinoic acid (RA) and cyclic AMP (cAMP). We have previously found that F9 cells can be induced to differentiate by treatment with cAMP in the absence of RA. In the course of determining why other investigators had failed to observe cAMP-induced differentiation, we found that the growth medium played an important role in determining the response of F9 cells to differentiating agents. When F9 cells were grown in minimal essential medium (MEM) and treated with either 8-bromo-cAMP (8BrcA) + 1-methyl, 3-isobutylxanthine (MIX), or dibutyryl cAMP (DBcA) + theophylline (T), they differentiated to parietal endodermlike cells without any requirement for exogenous RA. However, when F9 cells were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DME), DBcA/T failed to induce differentiation alone and required exogenous RA to induce formation of parietal endoderm-like cells. 8BrcA/MIX alone was still able to induce some differentiation, although the extent was not as great as those cells grown in MEM. These results could not be explained by the different growth-promoting properties of the two culture media because there was no difference in the doubling time of F9 cells grown in either medium. Likewise, RA and cAMP both inhibited growth to the same extent in either medium. Inasmuch as almost all published reports on F9 cell differentiation have used DME as a growth medium, and RA with or without DBcA/T as the differentiating agents, these studies would not have had the appropriate conditions to detect the cAMP-induced differentiation of F9 cells.
20171475| Addition of low concentrations of ascorbic acid (5 g/ml to 10 g/ml) to myogenic chick embryo cultures resulted in an early fusion. At 30 h cultures receiving small amounts of ascorbic acid presented fusion rates 3 times that of the control. However, control rates of fusion were not different from those of experimentals at 50 h. No such effect was seen with ascorbic acid added at 24 h of culture, or with ascorbic acid addition to a calcium-deprived system. These findings demonstrate that the calcium binding properties of ascorbic acid can induce precocious myogenic fusion. 
20171536| The stimulatory effects of transforming growth factor  (TGF-) on epidermal growth factor (EGF)-dependent growth of adult and newborn human fibroblasts were investigated. EGF-stimulated growth in low serum of dermal fibroblasts from a 41 year-old adult (HSF-41) was less than half that of newborn foreskin fibroblasts (HFF). The EGF-stimulated growth of HFF after 55 population doublings (HFF-55) was similarly reduced. The decreased growth response to EGF of fibroblasts aged in vivo and in vitro appeared to result principally from a decreased sensitivity to EGF due to a decreased number and affinity of high affinity EGF receptors (H-EGFR). Pre-incubation of HSF-41 and HFF-55 with 25 pM TGF- enhanced the growth responses of these cells to EGF and increased the levels of high affinity EGF-binding by these cells. Thus, the stimulation by TGF- of EGF-dependent growth of human fibroblasts aged in vivo or in vitro is mediated by increased levels of high affinity EGF binding. 
4295987| Sertoli cells from rats aged 15, 20, and 25 d were subcultured onto collagen-coated, plastic dishes. If the collagen was released from the plastic surface by rimming, the floating rafts of collagen showed uniform shrinkage. If the collagen was allowed to remain attached to the plastic, holes appeared in the collagen with cells from rats aged 25 d but not with those of 15 d. Cells from rats aged 20 d caused fewer and smaller holes to appear. The holes were associated with the formation of clumps of spherical cells from which elongated Sertoli cells extended into the surrounding collagen to end near holes. Rhodamine-phalloidin revealed diffusely distributed actin in the spherical cells in contrast to well-developed microfilaments in the peripheral elongated cells. Addition of cytochalasin B (5 g/ml) to the medium prevented contraction of the floating rafts and the development of holes in the attached collagen. In addition, cytochalasin B caused the peripheral cells to become spherical and to separate from the clumps. Moreover, rhodamine-phalloidin revealed that actin in the peripheral cells occurred as clumps without microfilaments when cytochalasin B was present. When Sertoli cells were subcultured onto silicone rubber films, the cells produced wrinkling of the rubber surface within 4 h of plating. These observations were interpreted to mean that Sertoli cells exert local tractional forces on various substrata. These forces require actin, presumably acting by a contractile mechanism. When the collagen is attached to plastic and the cells are organized into clumps with radiating elongated cells (cells from rats aged 25 d), the tractional forces in the elongated cells reorganize the collagen fibers to produce holes. When cells are uniformly distributed (cells from rats aged 15 d), holes are not formed. When the collagen is released from the plastic surface, tractional forces cause the floating rafts to shrink. These interactions of the cells with collagen are likely to be important in determining the shape of the Sertoli cell in vivo, the polarity of the cell, and its biochemical differentiation. 
4296675| We investigated the long-term effects of continuous gamma interferon (-IFN) treatment on A431, a human squamous carcinoma cell line. Cells were grown in an in vitro culture system, which over time produces cohesive cell masses ("tumoroids") exhibiting three-dimensional, histotypically differentiated structures, e.g., keratin "pearls," intercellular bridges (desmosomes), elongated flattened cells (squames) and stratification. The effects of -IFN on cell growth, morphology and stage of differentiation were assessed at different treatment times by light and electron microscopy and by immunohistochemical staining using antibodies to keratins 1 and 14 and to filaggrin, markers of specific stages of keratinocyte differentiation. Our results show that A431 cells have the capacity for spontaneous differentiation, that this capacity is significantly enhanced and accelerated by -IFN treatment leading to terminal differentiation and extensive cell death by 2 wk. Despite continuous exposure to IFN, a small number of viable, undifferentiated cells remain. Their proliferation, evident by 3 wk, reconstitutes the tumoroid which once again contains the full range of differentiating cell types. 
4296721|Oligonucleotide fingerprinting was applied to investigate the relatedness of several cell lines that were established between 1973 and 1977 from a teratocarcinoma. We were able to distinguish cell lines derived at different times. In addition, sublines from one cell line (PYS-2) could be discriminated by using a combination of different probes. Therefore multilocus fingerprinting with oligonucleotides is a useful method for monitoring changes in cell lines kept in culture for many generations.
4296588| Utilizing the technique of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we have examined the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 3 (TGF-3) by embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells, EC-derived differentiated cells and early mammalian embryos. Using a TGF- bioassay, we determined that PYS-2 cells express considerable TGF- activity that cannot be completely neutralized by antibodies specific for TGF-l and TGF-2. We also have determined that PYS-2 cells, as well as F9 EC cells and their differentiated cells, express transcripts for TGF-3. In addition, we have determined that blastocysts, cultured for three days in serum-containing medium, express TGF-3 transcripts. Thus, our data suggest that expression of TGF-3 is initiated during early stages of mammalian development. 
4296258|Cloned mouse keratinocytes (MK-1 cells) display density-dependent growth arrest when reaching confluency in a serum-free medium with a calcium concentration < 0.1 mM, supplemented only with insulin and transferrin. In this quiescent state, greater than 95% of the cell population is in the
4296708|We have developed an improved serum-free medium to optimize the cell growth of bovine granulosa cells. The cells on collagen-coated culture plates proliferated extensively in a nutrient medium supplemented with insulin, heparin binding growth factor-2 (HBGF-2), lipoprotein, and bovine serum albumin (BSA). The cell doubling time at logarithmic phase and final cell density at confluent cultures were equal to those of cultures grown in the presence of medium supplemented with optimal concentration (10%) of fetal bovine serum (FBS). Whereas HBGF-2 or insulin alone had a small mitogenic effect of granulosa cells, lipoprotein or BSA did not. When lipoprotein, BSA, or insulin was added together with HBGF-2, synergistic cell proliferation was observed in all combinations. Insulin or lipoprotein had an additive mitogenic stimulation of these cells in the presence of BSA. After granulosa cells were subcultivated in a serum-containing medium until three generations [8.5 cumulative population doubling level (CPDL)], subsequent subcultivation of the cells in a complete serum-free medium could be achieved up to six generations (14.4 CPDL). These results demonstrate that this serum-free medium can support the optimal cell growth and long-term subcultivation of bovine granulosa cells.
4296159| When primary cultures of fetal human liver cells established on type I collagen gels were compared to sister cultures developed on tissue culture plastic, the cells in contact with type I collagen secreted albumin at a higher rate than those without contact. The albumin secretion was dependent on the presence of hydrocortisone (HC) in the medium. Also, -fetoprotein (AFP), of which the level decreased gradually and became undetectable after 6 d regardless of the presence or absence of HC in the cells cultured on plastic, was maintained for longer periods of time by plating the cells on type I collagen gels in the presence of HC. Different secretion rates of albumin and AFP were observed after Day 13 and Day 16, respectively, between cells maintained on type I collagen gels and those on film plastic. The cells secreted larger amounts of both albumin and AFP in plates coated with type IV or I collagens than with fibronectin after Day 10. The cells cultured on type I collagen gels were cuboidal in shape, whereas those on plastic were flattened in cultures with HC. These data indicate that the secretion of human albumin and AFP is facilitated by synergies between HC and collagenous substrata. 
4295867|Surface wettability is an excellent indicator of the ability of cells to adhere to a culture substrate. We have determined that brief exposure of a hydrophobic culture surface to a propane flame may increase wettability more than 1200% via the deposition of ionic combustion products. Previously nonadherent mouse spinal cord cells will adhere to and differentiate morphologically on a hydrophobic surface after flaming. Central nervous system cells remain adhered to flamed surfaces for periods of 2 mo. or longer and demonstrate spontaneous electrical activity during that time. Secondary modification of a flamed surface with polylysine further enhances the strength of single cell adhesion, thereby retarding mobility and promoting neurite extension. Flaming also enhances the wettability of common culture materials such as glass and polystyrene, as well as metal. Flaming of hydrophobic substrates through masks permits creation of discrete adhesion islands and patterns which may be used for a variety of investigations requiring maintenance of different cell types in separate regions of a culture surface.
4296692|Despite extensive efforts to develop suitable media for rearing the intramolluscan stages of schistosomes, successful in vitro culture of these parasites remains elusive. Recent
4296023|Cellular elements from the mucous membrane of the uterus and oviducts and from peritoneal washings were cultured. The in vitro behavior of these cells was compared to elucidate the histogenesis of endometriosis and the role of various diagnostic procedures. In 65% of the cultured material obtained by uterine-tubal flushing, proliferating cells of the uterine-tubal mucous membrane were present. Their morphology and behavior corresponded to those of cultured cells obtained by separate washing of the uterine cavity and the tubes, respectively, curetted material, and biopsies of endometriosis lesions. Epithelial and stromal cells were identified using phase contrast microscopy, electron microscopy, and immunohistochemical methods. These cell types did not occur in peritoneal washings before the flushing of uterus and tubes. It was therefore assumed that they were detached and transported to the pelvic cavity during the above-mentioned procedures. In view of their intensive proliferation they may form the basis in the development of nodules of endometriosis. This would support the implantation theory concerning the pathogenesis of endometriosis. Interactions between epithelial and mesothelial cells point to the possible role of the latter in encapsulating the endometrial elements.
20171381|Two commercially available serum replacements developed for use in the culture of hybridoma and other mammalian cells were tested for their suitability as replacements for fetal bovine serum in insect cell culture medium. CPSR-1 adn CPSR-3 both supported growth of the insect cell line IPLB-SF-21AE. CPSR-3 supported adequate growth, but cells in medium supplemented with CPSR-1 grew much slower and achieved only about half the final cell density of either FBS or CPSR-3 supplemented medium.
4296426|Micromass cultures from stage 23 and 24 chick wing mesenchyme were grown in serum-containing medium with or without additional ascorbic acid. It was found that ascorbic acid administered as a single pulse or present continuously throughout culture, in concentrations as low as 25 g/ml, was sufficient to abolish 80% of myogenesis as assessed by immunolocalization using muscle-specific antibodies. This effect was not significantly altered when cultures were maintained in a serum-free medium that promotes myogenesis. In contrast to the above findings, spectrophotometric analysis of accumulated sulphated glycosaminoglycans, an indicator of chondrogenesis, was elevated by ascorbate treatment. Furthermore, a similar level of glycosaminoglycan stimulation was found in ascorbate treated stage 23 distal-tip limb cultures that were essentially free of myogenic cells. We conclude, therefore, that the presence of myoblasts in whole-limb cultures has no appreciable inhibitory effects on chondrogenesis.
20171524| Proliferation and differentiation of opossum kidney cells in a serum-free defined medium was investigated and compared to that under conditions in which fetal bovine serum FBS (10%) was employed. Monolayers were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-Ham's F12 nutrient mixture containing insulin (10 g/ml), bovine serum albumin fraction V (1 mg/ml) and fetuin (1 mg/ml). Cells in serum-free medium seeded at 1  10 per cm grew to confluency within 6 to 8 d and formed hemicysts or domes at a frequency equivalent to those in serum-containing medium. Electron microscopy of cultures grown in serum-free medium revealed polarized monolayers with the presence of microvilli and tight junctions. The differentiated characteristics, including sodium-dependent phosphate transport, the inhibition of this transport by parathyroid hormone (PTH), and the generation of cyclic AMP in response to PTH, were preserved in opossum kidney cells grown in serum-free medium. 
20171441| Alpha-smooth muscle actin is currently considered a marker of smooth muscle cell differentiation. However, during various physiologic and pathologic conditions, it can be expressed, sometimes only transiently, in a variety of other cell types, such as cardiac and skeletal muscle cells, as well as in nonmuscle cells. In this report, the expression of actin mRNAs in cultured rat capillary endothelial cells (RFCs) and aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs) has been studied by Northern hybridization in two-dimensional cultures seeded on individual extracellular matrix proteins and in three-dimensional type I collagen gels. In two-dimensional cultures, in addition to cytoplasmic actin mRNAs which are normally found in endothelial cell populations, RFCs expressed -smooth muscle (SM) actin mRNA at low levels. -SM actin mRNA expression is dramatically enhanced by TGF-. In addition, double immunofluorescence staining with anti-vWF and anti--SM-1 (a monoclonal antibody to -SM actin) shows that RFCs co-express the two proteins. In three dimensional cultures, RFCs still expressed vWF, but lost staining for -SM actin, whereas -SM actin mRNA became barely detectable. In contrast to two-dimensional cultures, the addition of TGF- to the culture media did not enhance -SM actin mRNA in three-dimensional cultures, whereas it induced rapid capillary tube formation. Actin mRNA expression was modulated in SMCs by extracellular matrix components and TGF- with a pattern very different from that of RFCs. Namely, the comparison of RFCs with other cell types such as bovine aortic endothelial cells shows that co-expression of endothelial and smooth muscle cell markers is very unique to RFCs and occurs only in particular culture conditions. This could be related to the capacity of these microvascular endothelial cells to modulate their phenotype in physiologic and pathologic conditions, particularly during angiogenesis, and could reflect different embryologic origins for endothelial cell populations. 
4296317|Growth of the MCF-7, T47D, and ZR-75-1 human breast cancer cells was established in a serum-free defined medium (MOM-1) composed of a 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of Ham's F12 medium and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing 15 mM HEPES (pH 7.2), 2 mM 1-glutamine,
4296220| Serum-free tissue culture medium consisting of a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) and Ham's F12 medium is herein shown to support growth of Reuber H-35 cells over several days in culture. Cells were initially plated in serum containing DMEM medium for 3 h. After cell attachment, serum is removed and replaced with a serum-free 1:1 mixture of these two commercially available tissue culture media. The doubling time of cell growth in this unsupplemented serum-free medium was 46 h in lightly plated cultures over the first 5 d. The presence of transferrin (5 g/ml) and insulin (3.3 nM) results in a cell doubling time of 17 h, which equaled the growth rate in medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum. In the absence of transferrin, growth rates in serum-free medium were correlated with the cell density of cultures. Conditioned medium from dense, serum-free cultures has growth-stimulating activity in recipient lightly plated cultures. This simple, serum-free culture medium will facilitate studies on the growth regulation of H-35 rat hepatoma cells. 
4295964| Primary cultures of muscle from normal (line 412) and dystrophic (line 413) chick embryos were exposed to corticosterone-21-acetate (C-21-A) or sodium ibuprofen (Motrin) for 28 d after myotube formation. Ibuprofen (0.5 to 500 g/ml) or C-21-A (0.4 to 40 g/ml (-treated cultures were fixed and assessed semiquantitatively using phase microscopy. On this basis, ibuprofen (50 g/ml) and C-21-A (40 g/ml) seemed to be effective in maintaining both normal and dystrophic muscle cultures. Using ibuprofen and C-21-A at these concentrations, experiments were repeated and analyzed quantitatively. Ibuprofen maintained culture viability (up to 68% more myotubes than untreated controls) but had no significant effect on the number of striated cells. C-21-A effectively maintained culture viability (up to 73% increase) and strongly promoted the formation of striated cells in these cultures (up to a sixfold increase). Both normal and dystrophic cultures were affected similarly by these agents, but the dystrophic cultures showed more consistent if not more extensive improvements in the parameters examined here. Thus, it seems that ibuprofen and C-21-A may affect both normal and dystrophic muscle directly to maintain survival and even promote differentiation. 
20171577|Embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells provide an effective model system for studying growth factor production and regulation during mammalian embryogenesis. Our earlier data indicated that the mouse EC cell lines F9 and PC-13 and the human EC cell line NT2/D1 produce a factor with properties similar to those ascribed to members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family and that production of this FGF-related factor is suppressed when all three EC cell lines are induced to differentiate. Subsequent studies suggested that NT2/D1 EC cells express transcripts for basic FGF (bFGF). The current study confirms and extends these findings using a combination of reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). In this study, the expression of bFGF and other members of the FGF family have been examined in F9 and PC-13 cells in addition to NT2/D1 EC cells. In contrast to NT2/D1 EC cells, bFGF expression could not be detected in F9 and PC-13 EC cells. Additionally, expression of four other members of the FGF family (acidic FGF, int-2, FGF-5, and FGF-6) were not detected in NT2/D1, F9, or PC-13 EC cells. However, expression of another member of the FGF family, the k-FGF oncogene, was detected in NT2/D1, F9, and PC-13 EC cells. Moreover, the expression of this transcript is reduced dramatically when each of the three EC cell lines is induced to differentiate. Taken together, our findings argue that expression of the k-FGF oncogene is predominantly responsible for the FGF-related activity detected in EC cells and that differentiation of these EC cells results in suppression of this oncogene.
4295717|The effects of glucose and arginine on islet hormone biosynthesis were investigated using primary cell cultures prepared from islets of the anglerfish (Lophius americanus). After dispersion under sterile conditions, islet cells were maintained at
4296331|An explant culture procedure has been developed that makes it possible to measure the relative growth capacity of the epithelial and mesenchymal cells of the canine thymus gland. Standardized growth conditions were obtained by size-grading thymic fragments and counting to allow uniform fragment density during culture. After 6 d in culture, outgrowth from the fragments formed colonies that could be classified into epithelial, mixed, or spindle cell type. Uniform fragment size and number in each flask allowed calculation of the total plating efficiency, relative distribution of colony types, and mean colony diameters for thymic fragments collected from fetuses (50 d of gestation), neonates (0 d postpartum), and juveniles (70 d postpartum). Data show age-related changes in the proliferative capacity of the cells in all three colony types. The most significant difference was seen in the epithelium, which showed a 30% reduction in mean colony diameter over the 2 wk between fetal and neonatal ages and a 23% reduction over the postnatal period of 70 d. Significant reductions were seen in the other colony types as well. Because the severity of the effect of many injurious agents is proportional to the rate of growth of the target cells, these data suggest that the thymus gland of the fetus may be more sensitive to physical or chemical injury than is the neonate or adult.
4296622| Epidermal differentiation is accompanied by profound changes in the synthesis of a variety of intracellular proteins and intercellular lipids. In conventional, submerged culture keratinocytes have been shown to lose the ability to synthesize the protein markers of differentiation. They re-express them, however, when they are cultured in medium supplemented with delipidized [retinoic acid (RA)-depleted] serum or in air-exposed cultures using de-epidermized dermis (DED) as a substrate. Recent studies have revealed that acylceramides (AC) and lanosterol (LAN), which are present only in trace amounts in cultures of keratinocytes grown under submerged conditions on DED in medium supplemented with normal serum, become expressed in significant amounts when the culture is lifted to the air-liquid interface. Inasmuch as culture conditions may markedly affect the extent of keratinocyte differentiation, the present study aimed to investigate the effect of normal (RA-containing) or delipidized (RA-depleted) serum and of RA administration on lipid composition (especially of the AC and LAN contents) in cells cultured under submerged and air-exposed conditions. To test a possible effect of dermal substrate (used in the air-exposed model), the lipid composition of keratinocytes grown under submerged conditions on a plastic and on a dermal substrate (de-epidermized dermis, DED) has also been compared. The results revealed that under all culture conditions, RA deprivation of fetal bovine serum resulted in a marked increase of total ceramide content. Even under submerged conditions, the presence of both AC and LAN could be detected. In air-exposed culture, the content of these lipids was markedly increased. Addition of RA at 1M concentration to cultures grown in RA-depleted medium induced marked changes in lipid composition under all culture conditions tested. In cells grown under submerged conditions (both on plastic and on DED) AC and LAN were no longer present in detectable amounts. Also in air-exposed culture, a marked decrease in the content of these lipids was observed. These results suggest that liposoluble serum components, like RA, control the synthesis of lipids that are present in later stages of epidermal differentiation. 
4296975|The structure and function of vascular smooth muscle cells have been extensively investigated with the aid of in vitro culture techniques. The majority of studies have utilized aortic tissue as the source of cells. We present here a method for isolating and culturing smooth muscle cells of the rat superior mesenteric artery, an elasto-muscular vessel that is structurally and functionally different from the aorta. Cells were isolated from partially digested explants and characterized by immunochemical and biochemical techniques. Unlike cultured fibroblasts, the cultured cells stained positive for smooth muscle specific actin. The cells also produced laminin and type IV collagen in culture. This method provides a means for the isolation of large numbers of viable smooth muscle cells from the superior mesenteric artery which can be propagated in culture for in vitro study.
4296219| Two fibroblast-like cell lines were obtained from fins of adults of the medaka, Oryzias latipes, and serially cultured at 27 C. One cell line, which was derived from a fish of the orange-red variety, reached to population doubling level (PDL) 434 on Day 840 by 120 passages. The other, which was derived from a fish of the inbred strain HB32C, reached to PDL 294 on Day 551 by 80 passages. Any symptom of crisis was not detected. The cell lines were named OL-17 and OL-32, respectively. Population doubling time was 29 h for OL-17 cells, and 32 h for OL-32 cells. Density-dependent inhibition of growth was clear in OL-32 cells, but not so obvious in OL-17 cells. Modal chromosome number of OL-17 cells was 50, and that of OL-32 cells was 47 (2N = 48). Plating efficiency of OL-17 cells was about 10%, whereas that of OL-32 cells was about 5%. The use of conditioned medium (80% concentration) increased the plating efficiency of OL-32 cells to more than 25%. 
20171466|Protoplasts of young Pisum Sativum L. seedlings from 7 different genotypes were isolated and regenerated to the callus stage. Germinating embryos were cultivated with cotyledons removed, thus avoiding intracellular starch accumulation in donor tissue. The first lateral shoots provided a source of homogenous meristematic cells which gave rise to sustained protoplast division and resulted in callus formation within 4 weeks. Root formation occurred on hormone-free medium and shoots developed on medium containing kinetin, 2iP or zeatin in the third subculture, when subcultured in monthly intervals.
4296255|We examined the influence of various Millipore filter pretreatments on the amounts of androgen-binding protein (ABP) and transferrin (Trf) found in the outer (OC) and inner (IC) compartment of two-compartment Sertoli cell (Sc) cultures. When Sc were cultured on untreated Millipore filters, less than 10% of ABP was found in OC during 3 initial culture days compared to similar cultures on pretreated filters. Most of the glycoprotein was shown to be bound by the filter. Pretreatment of Millipore filters with 5% bovine serum albumin (BSA) or 2% fetal bovine serum (FBS) maximally saturated the nonspecific protein-binding sites resulting in OC:IC ratio of ABP similar to that found in cultures on polycarbonate membranes, which exhibit very low protein-binding capacity. In contrast to ABP, about 40% of Trf was bound by the Millipore filter on Day 1, with only trace amounts bound thereafter. These differences were due to much higher secretion rate of Trf than ABP, resulting in a relatively smaller fraction of Trf bound to the filter. Again, the nonspecific binding of Trf was greatly reduced by filter pretreatment with 5% BSA or 2% FBS. It is concluded that complete saturation of protein-binding sites of cellulose ester supports is necessary for reliable evaluation of vectorial protein secretion by Sc and other polarized epithelial cells maintained in this type of culture. The implications of partial saturation of protein-binding sites of culture support in interpreting experimental results are discussed.
4296375| The effects of the antibiotics methotrexate and chloramphenicol on somatic embryogenesis in Citrus were evaluated. Relatively low levels (0.1 to 1.0 g/ml) of these antibiotics did not inhibit embryo production from undeveloped ovules of 'Key' lime [C. aurantifolia) (Christm.) Swing.]. Surprisingly, both antibiotics induced the formation of embryogenic callus in these cultures. This is usually a rare event in cultures of undeveloped Citrus ovules, and 'Key' lime is especially recalcitrant. The effects of these antibiotics on embryogenic callus appeared to be limited to the induction stage, because there was no consistent effect, either stimulatory or inhibitory, on established lines of embryogenic callus. 
20171557| A monoclonal antibody was produced against Kunitz soybean trypsin inhibitor (KSBTI) and used in an inhibition enzyme immunoassay (EIA). The inhibition EIA was as sensitive as competetive EIAs and was easily modified for other protein-antibody interactions. The KSBTI assay described detected KSBTI in complex mixtures from 100 g/ml to 50 ng/ml and did not react with the Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitor. The assay was used to examine levels of KSBTI in Glycine max hypocotyl-derived callus tissue. The developing hypocotyls contained 0.21 g KSBTI per mg of fresh tissue. This level of KSBTI rapidly decreased when placed in culture and was undetectable 6 days later. The decrease in KSBTI correlated with the development of callus. 
20171490|Differentiation in keratinocytes can be experimentally modulated by changing the culture conditions. When cultured under conventional, submerged conditions, the extent of cellular differentiation is reduced in the presence of low calcium medium and is enhanced in medium containing physiologic calcium concentrations. Moreover, cultures grown at the air-medium interface or on a dermal substrate, or both, differentiate even further. Herein we report the effect of culture conditions on lipid composition in normal human keratinocytes and three squamous carcinoma cell (SCC) lines that vary in their capacity to differentiate as assessed by cornified envelope formation. Under submerged conditions, the total phospholipid content was lower, triglyceride content higher, and phospholipid:neutral lipid ratio lower in direct correlation to the degree of differentiation in these cultures. When grown at the air-medium interface on de-epidermized dermis, evidence of further morphologic differentiation was found only for well-differentiated SCC cells and normal keratinocytes. Similarly, the phospholipid content remained high in poorly differentiated SCC cells and it decreased modestly in well-differentiated SCC cells and markedly in normal keratinocytes. In all cell lines the triglyceride content was increased and cholesterol content decreased when compared to parallel submerged cultures, but these differences were most pronounced in well-differentiated cell lines. Acylceramides and acylglucosylceramides were found only in normal keratinocytes and only under the most differentiation-enhancing conditions. These studies demonstrate differentiation-related changes in the lipid content of both normal and neoplastic keratinocytes.
4296309|The sensitivity to calcium of the human squamous carcinoma cell line, SCC-13, was demonstrated and characterized. Cultures grown to confluence in the presence of 0.2 to 2 mM calcium had approximately 10-fold higher levels of particulate transglutaminase activity and envelope competence than those grown in low calcium (0.025 to 0.05 mM) medium. Raising the calcium from 0.025 to 1.8 mM induced expression of this enzyme and of competence over the course of a week. Conversely, for cultures grown to confluence in 1.8 mM calcium, subsequent reduction of calcium to 0.025 mM resulted in a substantial decline in transglutaminase over a similar time period. Immunoprecipitable transglutaminase was clearly identifiable in cultures grown in 1.8 mM calcium-containing medium but not in those grown in low calcium medium or in the presence of retinoic acid, suggestive of regulation at the level of mRNA accumulation or translation rather than posttranslational modification.
4295828|A chromosome preparation technique from which a colchicine treatment was omitted yielded longer and less-fragmented chromosomes from lepidopteran cells in culture than those previously depicted in the literature. Greater integrity in chromosome morphology was evident in all cultures prepared without colchicine although with 1075A cells a reduction in fixation time was necessary. Possible satellite chromosomes were evident in these preparations as well as thin, lightly stained regions along the length of some chromosomes. In addition, instances of possible somatic pairing were observed.
4296368| The effect of culture conditions on the ultrastructure and enzyme activities of cultured skin fibroblast cells relevant to the diagnosis of lysosomal storage disorders are reported. The parameters examined were: pH of the culture media, type of media, increasing cell passage, and day of harvest. Ultrastructural changes were defined in terms of the number of lysosome-like inclusion bodies per cell according to a method devised in our laboratory and proven reliable in the detection of affected individuals. Our biochemical results included determination of enzyme activities of -hexosaminidase, -mannosidase, -glucuronidase-lysosmal enzymes, arylsulfatase C, a microsomal marker, and 5' nucleotidase, a plasma membrane marker. Our results indicate that the cellular ultrastructure is more sensitive than enzyme activity to changes in culture conditions. The resulting ultrastructural "artifacts" observed under certain conditions were severe enough to result in a mistaken diagnosis. Due to certain difficulties we had previously encountered in heterozygote cultures (for lysosmal storage disorders) of amniotic cells, we decided to examine heterozygote cultures of skin fibroblasts. From these (preliminary) studies it seems that an elevation in the pH over the physiologic levels in the culture media may help to define between normal individuals and affected heterozygotes. On the basis of our results, we recommend that to minimize false positive ultrastructural results for the diagnosis of lysosomal storage disorders, cultures be grown in minimal essential medium, the pH of the medium carefully monitored to remain below 7.4, examining the cultures not later than cell Passage 8 and no later than Day 10 after subculture. 
4295937|Cultured glomerular epithelial cells form a continuous monolayer of polyhedral-shaped cells. PGE
4296254|This study examines the factors involved in the rapid glycolysis and glycogenolysis that occur during the first stages of hepatocyte culture: a) Shortly after seeding glycolysis, estimated as lactate released to culture medium, increased 10 times in comparison to that reported in vivo. By 8 to 9 h of culture, hepatocytes were nearly glycogen-depleted even in the presence of insulin. b) 6-Phosphofructo-2-kinase remained 100% active during this period. The proportion of the initial active phosphorylase (87%) decreased to 57% by 7 h of culture. c) Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate content was initially similar to that found in liver of fed animals, decreased after seeding and increased thereafter up to four times the initial concentration. In spite of changes in the concentration of this activator, the glycolytic rate remained high and constant. d) ADP and AMP increased sharply after cell plating, reaching values 1.7 and 3.5 times higher. The rise in AMP levels may be involved in the activation of glycolysis and glycogenolysis, because this metabolite is known to act as an allosteric activator of phosphofructokinase and glycogen phosphorylase. This metabolic situation resembles that of cells under hypoxia.
20171529| We have analyzed the ability of the physical substratum to modulate both the ultrastructural and protein synthetic characteristics of the Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) renal cell line. When MDCK cells were seeded on Millipore Millicell CM microporous membrane cell culture inserts they demonstrated a more columnar organization with an increase in cell density sixfold greater than the same cells seeded on conventional plastic substrata. After 1 wk postseeding on the microporous membrane a partial basal lamina was noted, with a contiguous basement membrane being apparent after 2 wk. One-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis was used to analyze detergent-solubilized proteins from MDCK cells maintained on plastic substrata vs. microporous membranes. When proteins were pulse-labeled with [S]methionine, a 55 kDa protein was evident in the cytosolic extract of cells grown on collagen, laminin, and nontreated plastic substrata; but this labeled protein was not evident in similar extracts from cells grown on collagen and laminin-coated microporous membranes. To test if the polarized, basement-membrane secreting phenotype of the MDCK cells could be generated on a microporous membrane without pretreatment with any extracellular matrix (ECM) components, cells were seeded on the Millipore Millicell HA (cellulosic) microporous membrane. This type of substrata does not need a coating of ECM components for cell attachment. A partial basement membrane was formed below cells where the basal surface of the cell was planar, but not in areas where the cell formed large cytoplasmic extensions into the filter. This led us to the conclusion that the microporous nature of the substrata can dictate both ultrastructural and protein synthetic activities of MDCK cells. Furthermore, we suggest that both the planar nature of the basal surface and the microporosity of the substrate are corequisites for the deposition of the basement membrane. 
20171590|Five continuous cell lines were initiated from embryonic tissue of the cotton boll weevil Anthonomus grandis Boheman in a commercially available, serum-free medium (Excell 401) and have undergone in excess of 60 passages. Isoenzyme analysis confirmed that the lines originated from boll weevil tissue. Four of the lines grew as single attached cells of either epithelioid or fibroblastoid morphology. The fifth line, BRL-AG-2, grew primarily as cell aggregates and was found to release ecdysteroids (primarily ecdysone) into the culture medium. Evidence was also obtained suggesting that line BRL-AG-2 synthesizes chitin. Three lines, BRL-AG-1, BRL-AG-3A, and BRL-AG-3C, could be induced to produce an antibacterial factor(s) which was released into the culture medium.
4295827|Embryonic chick cardiac cell cultures, plated on collagen-coated dishes, containing serum-free synthetic media proliferate actively. The basic medium contained Ham's F12 nutrient mixture, fetuin, ascorbic acid, and bovine serum albumin. This medium was supplemented with various combinations of factors: endothelial cell growth supplement (ECGS), epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin (I), transferrin (T), selenium (S), hydrocortisone, and thyroxine or supplemented alone. Basic medium supplemented with ECGS alone contributes to the highest final cell density among all other factors used in various combinations or alone. The final cell density of the control culture with 2% fetal bovine serum was higher than those of all experimental cultures and an additional control culture grown in the basic medium. Combinations of factors without ECGS do not promote significant cell proliferation. Thyroxine is required to induce optimal differentiation and contractility of cardiac myocytes in vitro. Fibronectin and laminin did not show any more influence than collagen did on the growth and maintenance of cardiac myocytes in serum-free media. The proportion of cardiac muscle cells in ECGS-containing media was higher than those in other experimental media and control media with the exception of ECGS and ITS-containing medium that showed lower proportion of cardiac myocytes than that of serum-containing medium on Days 3 and 5. The profiles of incorporation of [
4295774|A rapid method has been developed for measuring the cellular protein content of mono- and multilayered anchorage cultures. Fixed or air dried cultures are stained for 30 min with 0.2% Naphthol Yellow S (NYS) dissolved in 1% acetic acid. Unbound dye is removed by a series of four 2.5 min washes in 1% acetic acid, and protein-bound dye extracted with 10 mM unbuffered Tris base for spectrophotometric optical density determination at 433 nm. The NYS method exhibited a least-squares correlation coefficient of 0.99997 with the Oyama-Eagle Lowry method.
4296137| Hepatocytes were isolated from human fetal liver in order to analyze the direct effects of growth factors and hormones on human hepatocyte proliferation and function. Mechanical fragmentation and then dissociation of fetal liver tissue with a collagenase/dispase mixture resulted in high yield and viability of hepatocytes. Hepatocytes were selected in arginine-free, ornithine-supplemented medium and defined by morphology, albumin production and ornithine uptake into cellular protein. A screen of over twenty growth factors, hormones, mitogenic agents and crude organ and cell extracts for effect on the stimulation of hepatocyte growth revealed that EGF, insulin, dexamethasone, and factors concentrated in bovine neural extract and hepatoma cell-conditioned medium supported attachment, maintenance and growth of hepatocytes on a collagen-coated substratum. The population of cells selected and defined as differentiated hepatocytes had a proliferative potential of about 4 cumulative population doublings. EGF and insulin synergistically stimulated DNA synthesis in the absence of other hormones and growth factors. Although neural extracts enhanced hepatocyte number, no effect on DNA synthesis of neural extracts or purified heparin-binding growth factors from neural extracts could be demonstrated in the absence or presence of defined hormones, hepatoma-conditioned medium or serum. Hepatoma cell-conditioned medium had the largest impact on both hepatocyte cell number and DNA synthesis under all conditions. Dialyzed serum protein (1 mg/ml) at 10 times higher protein concentration had a similar effect to hepatoma cell-conditioned medium (100 g/ml). The results suggest that hepatoma cell conditioned medium may be a concentrated and less complicated source than serum for purification and characterization of additional normal hepatocyte growth factors. 
4296657| These authors attempted to test the effect of anticoagulants on lymphocytes viability by reproducing the procedure used for lymphocyte isolation for various immunologic tests in which blood specimens are allowed to stay at room temperature for 2 h before lymphocytes are isolated. Blood was obtained with three different anticoagulants i.e. heparin, citrate, and CPDA (citrate, phosphate, dextrose, and adenine). Plasma was lyophilized and extracted with ethanol. Dried ethanol extracts were suspended in medium (RPMI 1640 + 10% fetal bovine serum) and incubated with a lymphocyte cell line (MOLT-4). After 24 h of incubation the viability of cells was examined. The following death rates of the cells were observed: heparin - 63  4.6% (mean  SEM), citrate -27  6.7%, and CPDA 6.2  0.6% (P < 0.0005). A significant correlation was found between these results and changes in the concentrations of free fatty acids in the extracts. These results emphasize the importance of choosing the right anticoagulant when the viability of lymphocytes is obligatory. 
4296185|Subpopulations of normal bronchial epithelial cells were identified using a series of marine monoclonal antibodies. These antibodies were used to stain intact bronchial epithelial cells in culture by indirect immunofliiorescence. LAM 2 reacted with 80%, LAM 6 with 75%, LAM 7 with 60%, and LAM 8 with 5% of these cells. Sections of human bronchial epithelium were also stained with these antibodies by immunoperoxidase methods. LAM 2 was found to bind with 80%, LAM 6 with 65%, LAM 7 with 50%, and LAM 8 with less than 1% of bronchial epithelial cells. LAM 2 stained both columnar epithelial cells and basal cells; LAM 6 stained mainly basal cells and only a small proportion of columnar cells; LAM 7 showed specificity for basal cells; LAM 8 distinctly stained single cells in the basal cell layer. These antibodies were previously shown to react with the surface membrane of human lung carcinomas, ranging from the broad reactivity of LAM 2 with small cell and non-small cell lung cancers to the highly restricted reactivity of LAM 8 with small cell carcinomas of the lung. Thus, membrane antigens have been identified in bronchial epithelial cells by monoclonal antibodies which exhibit a similar range of cellular reactivity in vitro as in vivo. Inasmuch as these antibodies recognize subsets of cells which could not be easily distinguished by morphologic characteristics, these reagents may be useful in classifying bronchial epithelial cells.
4296535|Ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum are human hereditary diseases in which patients are cancer prone and demonstrate increased sensitivity to DNA damage by ionizing and ultraviolet radiation, respectively. In culture, both ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum skin fibroblasts show increased synthesis and secretion of the extracellular matrix proteins fibronectin and collagen. To determine whether these differences in protein production result from fundamental abnormalities in regulation of genes associated with cellular interactions, we compared the effects of trifluoperazine and 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate on expression of the extracellular matrix-degrading metalloproteinases, procollagenase and prostromelysin, by normal, ataxia-telangiectasia, and xeroderma pigmentosum fibroblasts. After trifluoperazine treatment the overall levels of these metalloproteinases were much greater in three ataxia-telangiectasia cell strains and in cells from xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups A and D than in normal cells. In contrast, cells from xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group C produced only slightly more procollagenase than normal cells. 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate also induced higher than normal levels of procollagenase in some ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum strains, but less than that induced by trifluoperazine. Because increased extracellular accumulation of matrix-degrading enzymes has long been implicated in metastatic progression, this altered expression of procollagenase and prostromelysin in ataxia-telangiectasia and xeroderma pigmentosum cells could play an important role in the pathogenesis of various tumors in individuals with these genetic diseases.
4296812|SK-HEP-1 is an immortal, human cell line derived from the ascitic fluid of a patient with adenocarcinoma of the liver. We have determined that these cells are of endothelial origin. Despite the location of the tumor from which SK HEP-1 was derived, the cell line does not have properties of hepatocytes. Northern blot analysis of total cellular RNA shows no messenger RNA for the hepatic-specific proteins albumin, alpha-fibrinogen, or gamma-fibrinogen. Endothelial characteristics are seen by transmission electron microscopy. These features include numerous pinocytotic vesicles, electron dense granules consistent with Weibel-Palade bodies, and abundant intermediate filaments, identified immunocytochemically as vimentin. Cultures grown on plastic dishes grow in bundles of polygonal to spindle-shaped cells. Proteins characteristic for endothelial cells are identified by immunocytochemistry. Addition of basement membrane material (Matrigel) or type I collagen to the cultures induces these cells to organize into a tubular network.
4295998|Explants ranging in size from 0.5 to
4296370|Two cell lines designated HBPC-1 and HBPC-2 have been established from hamster buccal pouch tumors induced by topical 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) and DMBA in conjunction with type 1 herpes simplex virus infection, respectively. The cells are epithelial in morphology, have a doubling time of approximately 18 h, and require bovine serum for optimal growth. The karyotype is aneuploid, with several marker chromosomes, and the cells produce squamous cell carcinomas when transplanted into normal hamster pouch tissues.
4296705|The embryonal carcinoma cell line P19 is derived from mouse teratocarcinomas. These pluripotent cells can be induced to differentiate into a variety of cell types by exposure to various drugs. We used retinoic acid to induce embryonal carcinoma cells to differentiate into neuronlike cells. In this study, we show that changes occur in mitochondria during differentiation of embryonal carcinoma cells to neuronlike cells. We found that various morphologic parameters such as mitochondrial fractional area and mitochondrial size decrease as embryonal carcinoma cells differentiate into neuronlike cells. Similar changes were also observed in mitochondrial DNA content. Stereologic analysis of cell preparations provided a measure of mitochondrial fractional area per cell and mtDNA content was assessed by radiolabeled mtDNA probe. This study establishes that mitochondria are regulated as cells differentiate.
4296428|Three new cell lines were established from tissues of the grass carp, Ctenopharyngodon idella. Derived from the fin, snout, and swim bladder of two apparently healthy diploid fry, these cell lines have been designated GCF, GCS-2, and GCSB, respectively. The cells grew at temperatures between 24 and 36 C with optimal growth at 32 C and have been subcultured more than 50 times since their initiation in August 1986. Two of the lines remained diploid or pseudodiploid after 38 passages. The cells were tested for microbial contamination, and plating efficiencies were determined. The three cell lines were sensitive to Rhabdovirus carpio (RVC), infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV), golden shiner virus (GSV), chum salmon virus (CSV), and infectious pancreatic necrosis virus serotype VR299 IPNV). They were refractory to channel catfish virus (CCV), channel catfish reovirus (CRV), chinook salmon paramyxovirus (CSP), and an Ab serotype of IPNV.
4296951|Endothelial cells of the NMRI mouse strain express a cell surface glycoprotein recognized by the lectin Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA). This study documents a marked organ-specific increase in DBA-specific lectin binding of myocardium-derived endothelial cells (MEC) of the NMRI/GSF mouse during in vitro cultivation. An up to 20-fold increase in DBA binding sites is observed in long-term culture, an increase not found in other NMRI-derived endothelial cell lines (e.g., brain, aorta). The increase appears restricted to DBA in that binding with other lectins (PNA, WGA) was unaltered. NMRI MEC cultures maintain typical endothelial cell attributes such as cobblestone morphology on confluence, expression of endothelial cell-specific surface markers, and production of angiotensin-converting enzyme. Cultures routinely become aneuploid within 4 passages, several passages before upregulation of the DBA binding site(s). Myocardial endothelial cells sorted to obtain
20171574|Conversion (plant production) was obtained from direct-planting alfalfa somatic embryos and encapsulated somatic embryos (artificial seeds) of alfalfa into a growth chamber and greenhouse. The embryos were planted in a commercial soil potting mix under nonsterile conditions in a manner similar to zygotic seed. Embryo maturation with abscisic acid (ABA), prior to planting, gave 48% conversion in soil under growth chamber conditions. Under greenhouse conditions, 64% conversion was obtained when humidified air was used to prevent soil surface drying. Previously, conversion in soil was between 0-6% without the ABA maturation treatment. The replacement of ABA with mannitol or combinations of mannitol and ABA during maturation resulted in lower conversion in the growth chamber than with ABA alone. ABA may be promoting the accumulation of embryo storage reserves such as proteins and carbohydrates for growth after planting in the soil environment.
4296709|One bovine mammary epithelial cell clone, designated PS-BME-C1, and two bovine mammary epithelial cell lines, designated PS-BME-L6 and PS-BME-L7, were derived from mammary tissue of a pregnant (270 day) Holstein cow. The cells exhibit the distinctive morphologic characteristics of mammary epithelial cells and express the milk fat globule membrane protein, PAS-III. They form domes when cultured on plastic substrata and acinilike aggregates when cultured on a collagen matrix. These cells are capable of synthesizing and secreting
4295990|Rat lymphocyte cultures were initiated in minimal essential medium containing 0, 0.01, 1.0, or 10 mg/l of folic acid to investigate the influence of folic acid on cell kinetics, chromosome aberration, and sister chromatid exchange (SCE) frequencies. No significant difference was observed between cultures with and without folic acid in mitotic index or cell cycle kinetics as judged by the numbers of average lymphocyte divisions. However, a sequential reduction in the number of chromatid gaps occurred as the concentration of folic acid increased. On the other hand, addition of folic acid did not significantly affect the SCE frequency. Although folic acid does not seem to alter SCE formation, its significant influence in the reduction of chromatid gaps suggests that caution should be exercised in selecting a medium regarding folic acid content especially because gaps alone are produced by certain dose levels of some chemical clastogens.
4296486|An adriamycin-resistant human breast tumor cell line <tex-math>$MDA-A1^R$</tex-math> was generated by step-wise selection in increasing concentrations of drug from the parent cell line MDA-MB-231. <tex-math>$MDA-A1^R$</tex-math> cells grow as loosely attached cell aggregates with a doubling time of 28-32 h; the MDA-MB-231 parent cell line grows as a standard monolayer culture with a 20-h doubling time. The <tex-math>$MDA-A1^R$</tex-math> cell line is highly resistant to adriamycin compared to the parent cell line, and is cross-resistant to velban and colchicine suggestive of a multidrug resistance (MDR) phenotype. <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> cells exhibit reduced net adriamycin content as compared to the parent cell line. The MDR-associated P-glycoprotein gene is amplified approximately 10- to 30-fold in <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> cells. P-glycoprotein sequences are overexpressed in the resistant cells and are stable for up to 13 wk after drug removal. Moreover, <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> cells show the presence of very high levels of P-glycoprotein. <tex-math>$MDA-Al^R$</tex-math> is thus an in vitro model system to study the mechanism of MDR in human breast cancer.
4296215|A simple, rapid method for estimating the viability of isolated islets of Langerhans with fluorescent dyes is described. Low concentrations of acridine orange and propidium iodide (AO/PI) were used to visualize living and dead islet cells simultaneously. AO/PI-stained islets can be divided into three distinct groups. Group A islets fluoresce green, contain insulin, and have normal ultrastructure; group C islets fluoresce primarily red, contain little or no insulin, and have cells with disrupted cellular membranes. Group B islets fluoresce red, green, and yellow. The yellow color is due to the addition of two primary colors from the superimposed red and green fluorescing cells. In this assay, the interpretation that red islet cells are dead and green islet cells are alive was confirmed by sequentially staining single islet cells with AO/PI and try pan blue. The observation that red islets are dead was confirmed by heat-killing, enzymatically damaging, treating with ethanol, or depriving islets of nutrients and observing the red fluorescence. This assay should be useful in studies where the assessment of islet viability is essential.
4296072|Different batches of commercially available bovine serum albumin (Cohn fraction V) were tested in a serum-free medium for their ability to stimulate thymidine incorporation in erythroid cells of fetal bovine liver. All preparations stimulated thymidine incorporation. Crystallized, charcoal-treated, or fatty acid-free albumin had substantially lower thymidine incorporation-stimulating activities than the crude preparations. The albumin preparations also had a synergistic effect with respect to erythropoietin on erythroid cells from rat liver, a typical property of erythrotropins. One gram of one of the batches of Cohn fraction V was fractionated by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The fraction with thymidine incorporation-stimulating activity had a similar elution position as erythrotropin isolated from fetal bovine serum. Further purification using reversed-phase HPLC in the presence of trifluoroacetic acid and heptafluorobutyric acid and gel permeation HPLC resulted in the isolation of a factor that is very similar to fetal bovine serum erythrotropin. It has practically the same specific activity as the purified fetal peptide in the rat liver bioassay. These results suggest that many of the beneficial effects of the albumin preparations added as supplement of serum-free tissue culture media may be due to the presence of erythrotropin-like factors.
20171578| Both retinoic acid and 17-estradiol formed covalent bonds with proteins of the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7. Two-dimensional gel patterns of the labeled proteins were unique for each ligand. There were four major retinoylated proteins in MCF-7 consisting of two doublets with molecular masses of 37 kDa and 20 kDa. These proteins were designated 37a, 37b, 20c, and 20d. The extent of retinoylation was very low in a 55 kDa protein that we previously identified in the human myeloid leukemia cell line HL60 [Takahashi, N. and Breitman, T. R. (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 5159-5163]. These results indicated that the protein substrates for retinoylation may vary among cell-types. About 10 proteins were labeled from 17-estradiol. Two of these proteins had mobilities that were identical to the retinoylated proteins 37a and 20c. These results indicate that in MCF-7 cells there are two proteins that can be retinoylated and labeled from estradiol. The demonstration that some ligands of the steroid/thyroid receptor family are covalently linked to cellular proteins suggests new mechanisms for the many effects of these agents on cells. 
4295742|Zwitterion buffers are often used to modulate the pH of cell culture medium but their effect on cultured cells is controversial. We found that addition of 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES) caused superoxide dismutase (SOD) inhibitable increases in nitroblue tetrazolium dye reduction and SOD and catalase inhibitable decreases in the growth of cultured bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cells. The findings suggest that HEPES stimulates endothelial cells to make toxic oxygen metabolites that contribute to decreased cell growth.
4296732|Microvascular endothelial cells from the adult rat brain were cultured on Matrigel and found to express many differentiated properties including secretion of prostacyclin (PGI
20171388|The upper thermal limit for maintenance of eleven mosquito cell lines was studied. Although most cell lines could be grown at 32 C to 34 C, Anopheles stephensi cell line could be maintained at 37 C. At higher temperatures initial growth rate was higher, but yield of cells after about a week of incubation was lower than at the standard temperature (28 C). Replication of several flaviviruses in Aedes albopictus cell cultures adapted to 34.5 C was faster, and viral titers were higher than at 28 C.
4296518|Cultivation of a Spodoptera exigua cloned cell line (SE-UCR-1A) for 8 to 9 mo. in a medium containing increasing amounts of bromodeoxyuridine (BUdr) resulted in the selection of a BUdr-resistant subline unable to grow in TNMFH medium supplemented with HAT (hypoxanthine, 10
20171377| The insulin-producing cell line RINm5F, has been used in short-term experiments to evaluate insulin secretion. We sought to maintain the responsiveness of these cells to stimuli for up to 2 days. We examined the course of new insulin synthesis over this period by measuring at intervals immunoreactive insulin (IRI) in two parts: IRI in the medium (M) and IRI extracted from the cells (C). Control cells were incubated in RPMI 1640/2.8 mM glucose/10% fetal bovine serum/200 g/ml bacitracin (to prevent insulin degradation). The addition of dibutyryl cAMP 10 mM to the experimental dishes significantly increased total (M+C) IRI at 48 hr to 37% above the insulin content of the control dishes (p&lt;0.01). Theophylline 10 mM increased total (M+C) IRI by 24% over control (p&lt;0.05) after 24 hrs. Glucose, glyceraldehyde, leucine, arginine, glucagon and tolbutamide, other stimulants of insulin production, had no effect. Under the experimental conditions reported here, including the use of bacitracin, IRI synthesis can be studied for up to 48 hr. 
4296376|Previous studies have demonstrated that mouse embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells produce at least two growth factors: one related to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and another related to basic fibroblast growth factor (FGFb). Since human EC cell lines are being used with increased frequency, the current study examined whether human EC cells produce growth factors, in particular those produced by mouse EC cells. In this study, it was determined that the human EC cell line NT2/D1 produces a heat-labile heparin-binding growth factor that behaves like FGF in a bioassay. Three additional criteria suggest that this factor is closely related or identical to FGFb. The factor from NT2/D1 EC cells, bovine FGFb and FGFb produced by the human hepatoma cell line SK-HEP-1 elute from heparin at similar salt concentrations. The factor produced by NT2/D1 EC cells exhibits a thermal stability curve that is nearly identical to those for bovine FGFb and FGFb from SK-HEP-1 cells. Lastly, NT2/D1 and SK-HEP-1 cells express transcripts of the same size that hybridize with a cDNA probe for human FGFb. In the course of these studies it was determined that NT2/D1 EC cells also express several transcripts that hybridize with a cDNA probe for the human PDGF A-chain. Thus, our findings suggest that the pattern of growth factor production by human and mouse EC cells is evolutionarily conserved.
4296843| We have developed a serum-free system to culture postembryonic growth plate chondrocytes while maintaining some important phenotypic characteristics of their tissue of origin. This serum-free medium was as effective as medium containing 10% newborn bovine serum (NBS) for recovering the cells from enzymatic isolation. Surface secretory activity of chondrocytes cultured in monolayer, assessed through scanning electron microscopy, was also comparable to cells grown in medium containing serum. The effects of growth hormone (GH) and insulinlike growth factor-I (IGF-I) were also studied using the serum-free medium. GH had no effect on cell density and morphology of the cells compared to the control without the hormone. In contrast, chondrocytes grown in medium containing IGF-I had a marked increase in cell density after 3 days and presented similar morphologic characteristics to cells grown in the presence of NBS. The growth factors required for proliferation of chondrocytes cultured in the serum-free medium are IGF-I and fibroblast growth factor (100 ng/ml, respectively). Addition of ascorbic acid to the serum-free medium (0 to 50 g/ml) produced a dose-dependant decrease in cell proliferation. This medium should provide a useful tool for studying the effects of different growth factors/hormones in the regulation of longitudinal bone growth and their interactions. 
4296119|The distribution and organization of the extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins laminin, fibronectin, entactin, and type IV collagen were investigated in primary colonies and secondary cultures of bovine lens epithelial cells using species-specific antisera and indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. Primary cell colonies fixed in formaldehyde and permeabilized with Triton X-100 displayed diffuse intracellular patterns for type IV collagen and entactin, observed to a similar degree throughout the colonies. In contrast, thick bundles of laminin and fibronectin were located on the basal cell surfaces and in between cells in the densely packed center of the colonies, and as "adhesive plaques" and fine extracellular matrix cords in the sparsely populated (migratory) outer edge of the colonies. The distribution of ECM proteins observed in secondary lens epithelial cell cultures was similar to that observed at the periphery of the primary colony. Extraction of the secondary cell cultures with sodium deoxycholate confirmed that laminin and fibronectin were deposited on the basal cell surface. Indeed, the patterns of laminin and fibronectin deposition suggested that these proteins codistribute. These results establish that lens epithelial cells in culture can be used as a model system to study the synthesis and extracellular deposition of the basement membrane proteins, laminin and fibronectin.
4296469|Positively charged liposomes have been shown to inhibit the proliferation of lymphocytes induced by various polyclonal activators. We demonstrated that this inhibition is essentially restricted to early phases of activation. B cell proliferation, induction of suppressor cells, and cytotoxic activities are all profoundly inhibited, whereas T4+ cells response to mitogenic stimulation is only moderately affected. The results are discussed in terms of membrane perturbations potentially induced by liposome-lymphocyte interactions.
4296422|Seven cell lines established from a diethylnitrosamine (DEN(-induced forestomach carcinoma (<tex-math>$DEN_3$</tex-math>) of a BALB/c mouse and its six pulmonary metastatic foci were used to study the biological and functional diversity of tumor cells. <tex-math>$DEN_3$</tex-math> is a highly tumorigenic line capable of forming lung metastases readily. Six metastatic nodules were isolated from the lungs of syngeneic mice and six cell lines were established. The cell lines differed in characteristics such as tumorigenicity, metastatic capability, and in vivo and in vitro growth properties. Radiation sensitivity of these cell lines was examined by exposure, at near confluency stage of in vitro growth, to doses of 2.5 to 50 Gray (Gy) X-rays (1 Gy = 100 rads). Shortly after exposure (approximately 5 min), the cells were harvested and 10<sup>5</sup> cells were cultured or inoculated into syngeneic mice, or both. Growth of three of the six cell lines tested was prohibited by 5 Gy. However, some populations from the other cell lines were able to survive 5 or 10 Gy. Progenies of the cells that survived primary radiation exposure after several in vitro passages were able to withstand another exposure of the same magnitude but not a higher dose. The X-rayed survivor cells also maintained their tumorigenic potential.
4295953|A monolayer culture system has recently been developed for the extended growth and serial passage of normal rat mammary epithelial (RME) cells. In this system the cells undergo greater than 20 population doublings when grown on type I collagen-coated tissue culture dishes in Ham's F12 medium supplemented with insulin, hydrocortisone, epidermal growth factor, prolactin, progesterone, cholera toxin, and 5% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The purpose of the present studies was to define additional growth factors that would allow equivalent RME cell proliferation in serum-free medium. Ethanolamine (EA) was effective at reducing the FBS requirements for RME cell proliferation and at its optimum concentration did so by greater than 20-fold. Even with optimum levels of EA there was essentially no cell proliferation in the absence of FBS. However, addition of bovine serum albumin (BSA) to the hormone, growth factor, and EA-supplemented medium resulted in substantial proliferation in the absence of serum, and the further addition of transferrin (T) potentiated this effect. Thus, in this culture system, replacement of FBS with EA, BSA, and T resulted in RME cell proliferation in primary culture which was equivalent to that obtained in the 5% FBS-containing medium.
4296000| The potent fungal metabolite cytochalasin D (CD) and cationized ferritin (CF) are used in combination to test for negative charge distribution on blebs (knobs). Two established human epithelial cell lines, WISH and HeLa, that display blebs in various phases of the cell cycle or under certain culture conditions (37,46) are investigated. CD alone, applied at a low concentration (1.0 g/ml) and for a short time period (3 min), causes blebs to appear as the prevalent surface feature. These are filled mainly with free ribosomes. Additionally, feltlike mats, presumed to be disorganized, compacted microfilaments, are formed directly beneath the cell membrane. These are especially evident in the cortical cytoplasm below the blebs or bleb clusters. CF (0.345 mg/ml), applied for a 5-min period after CD administration (1.0 g/ml) for 3 min, appears along the surface of microvilli, at the base of blebs, and in vesicles beneath the bleb clusters. In some cases, microfilaments (6 nm in diameter) are closely related to the vesicles. CF does not preferentially bind to the apical cell membrane of blebs. Above areas of the subplasmalemmal microfilaments, CF membrane binding is apparent, even under circumstances where the filaments are disorganized by cytochalasin treatment. These results seem to show the following: (a) bleb membranes are different from the remainder of the cell and do exhibit a loss of negative charge and (b) surface charge may be dependent on the presence or structural integrity of membrane-related 6-nm microfilaments. 
4296389|The adhesion and proliferation of mammalian fibroblasts (Flow 7000) on the surface of hydrophilic (copolymer of N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone and methyl methacrylate) and hydrophobic [polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) stereocomplex] hydrogels with a wide range in water content were studied morphologically and quantitatively. It was demonstrated that cell proliferation on hydrogels by a static culture method decreased as the water content of the gels increased. However, it is remarkable that the cell proliferation on PMMA hydrogels with a high water content is equivalent to that on glass Petri dishes. The results obtained in the proliferation of cells on the surface of these hydrogels closely correspond to the state of cell adhesion. When fresh medium or air was perfused from the opposite side of the PMMA hydrogel membrane on which the cells were proliferating (perfusion method), the cells continued to grow into a higher density than with the conventional static culture method. In the case of fresh medium perfusion, the amount of proliferated cell was dependent on both the permeability of the membrane and the density of the membrane "scaffolding." Virus multiplication in the cultured cells increased in proportion to the cell density, whereas the cell function was similar in both culture methods.
4296057|A new cell line designated NAS 2BL has been established from a rat nasal tumor induced by inhalation of the direct-acting carcinogen methylmethane sulfonate. The cells are epithelial in morphology, have a generation time of 34 h, require 10% fetal bovine serum for optimal growth, and exhibit keratinization at confluence. The karyotype is aneuploid, with several marker chromosomes, and the cells are transformed by the criterion of nude mouse turmorigenicity.
4295978|The transforming protein coded for by the Ki-ras oncogene, v-p21, localizes at the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane. A method is presented whereby the appearance of v-p21 in Kirsten murine sarcoma virus-transformed cells can be detected by flow cytometry, using a monoclonal anitbody to v-p21 and methods modified from immunofluorescence microscopy. The method is sufficiently sensitive to differentiate between cellular and viral p21 levels, to detect small subpopulations of virus-transformed cells, and to monitor changes in p21 expression in response to physiologic variables. The method provides a rapid, quantitative means to investigate the expression of an intracellular transforming protein in heterogeneous cell populations.
20171359|In this report we describe a new apparatus which has been developed for the automated selective dissociation of multicellular spheroids into fractions of viable cells from different locations in the spheroid. This device is based on the exposure of spheroids to a 0.25% solution of trypsin under carefully controlled conditions, such that the cells are released from the outer spheroid surface in successive layers. Study of the spheroid size, number of cells per spheroid, and sections through the spheroid with increasing exposure to trypsin demonstrate the effectiveness of this technique. The technique has been successfully used on spheroids from five different cell lines over a wide range of spheroid diameters. We also present data detailing the effect of varying the dissociation temperature, the mixing speed, the trypsin concentration, and the number of spheroids being dissociated. The new apparatus has several advantages over previous selective dissociation methods and other techniques for isolating cells from different regions in spheroids, including: a) precise control over dissociation conditions, improving reproducibility; b) short time to recover cell fractions; c) ability to isolate large numbers of cells from many different spheroid locations; d) use of common, inexpensive laboratory equipment; and e) easy adaptability to new cell lines or various spheroid sizes. Applications of this method are demonstrated, including the measurement of nutrient consumption rates, regrowth kinetics, and radiation survivals of cells from different spheroid regions.
20171586|Sodium butyrate (NaB), a 4-carbon fatty acid, has been reported to activate the metallothionein (MT) gene in certain carcinoma cell lines. Because the effects of NaB are dependent on the cell type investigated, this study was conducted to determine if NaB and its homologues induce MT in rat primary hepatocyte cultures. Hepatocytes were grown on monolayer for 12 h and subsequently treated with formate, acetate, propionate (NaP), NaB, and valeric acid for 10 to 58 h. To examine their interaction with known MT inducers, cadmium (Cd), zinc (Zn), or dexamethasone (Dex) were added to some cultures. MT protein in the cells was quantitated by the Cd-hemoglobin assay; MT-1 mRNA was analyzed by Northern blot hybridizations with oligonucleotide probes, and quantitated by slot-blot analysis. Among the 1 to 5 carbon carboxylic acids, only NaP (3 carbon) and NaB (4 carbon) induced MT. NaP and NaB alone produced a moderate increase in MT two- to fourfold over control), but when combined with Cd or Dex, an additive increase was observed. However, when combined with Zn, a synergistic increase was detected. NaB and Zn synergistically increased MT protein, but produced only an additive increase in MT mRNA, suggesting the involvement of some posttranscriptional event(s) in the NaB-Zn induction of MT. In conclusion, NaP and NaB induced MT in normal cultured rat hepatocytes, producing an additive increase in MT protein with Cd and Dex, and a synergistic increase in MT protein with Zn.
20171407|Androgenesis occurred from chile pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) anthers incubated in a continuous warm environment (29 C) with continuous light. Forty plantlets and embryoids were retrieved from anther cultures and analyzed for isozyme markers. Of these, 35 exhibited a single allele for markers suggesting microscope origin, while 5 were heterozygous indicating somatic tissue origin. Chromosome numbers were confirmed for 21 plantlets, of which 16 were haploid and 5 were diploid. However, two plants exhibited a single allele for an isozyme marker but possessed the diploid chromosome number, suggesting spontaneous doubling. Anther cultures also produced callus. Nearly 92% of the slow-growing calli sampled were heterozygous for the isozyme marker, suggesting somatic tissue origin. More than 46% of the fast-growing calli exhibited only one allele for the marker, indicating microspore origin. Callus did not regenerate plantlets. The occurrence of both heterozygous and homozygous diploid plantlets from pepper anther cultures has important implications for applied breeding programs.
4296806| A method of culturing human breast epithelium is described in which viable explants can be maintained in protein-free medium while retaining the capacity of responding to added hormones and growth factors for at least 7 days. Culture parameters were chosen to provide maximum sensitivity of detection of proliferative responses by autoradiography. Under basal conditions, the mean thymidine labeling index of the explants was 0.08%. After stimulation with insulin, hydrocortisone, and cholera toxin (I,H,CT), a combination known to stimulate proliferation in human breast epithelium in vitro, the mean labeling index was 15.7%. Stimulation of explants with epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)- resulted in mean labeling indices of 6.6 and 10.8%, respectively. Autoradiography at the ultrastructural level demonstrated that in I,H,CT-stimulated explants the majority of the labeled cells were luminal, with only 1.5% being basal cells. In contrast, after EGF and TGF- basal cells accounted for 11.5 and 18.5% of the labeled population. These results indicate that this system provides an in vitro assay of proliferative activity in the normal human breast that enables comparisons to be made between both the luminal and the basal cells in the explants and their counterparts in monolayer culture prepared from flow sorted cells. Thus, growth responses dependent on cell-to-cell interactions or stromal modulation can be identified. 
4296407|A method is described for the preservation and subsequent recovery of hepatocytes obtained by collagenase perfusion of cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) livers. The fresh cells are suspended in fetal bovine serum containing 10% dimethylsulfoxide and, using a microprocessor-controlled, liquid nitrogen freezing chamber and a specific cooling protocol, processed in such a way that they can be stored in liquid nitrogen for several months and still restored to active culture. When the cryopreserved cells were established in culture, they were found to actively synthesize and secrete both albumin and apolipoprotein A-I. That, taken together with morphologic evidence, was viewed as indication that the cells recovered in culture were in fact hepatocytes and not some other cell type from the monkey liver. The availability of this procedure for storing hepatocytes should contribute significantly to the efficient use of nonhuman primates as models with which to study hepatic metabolism.
4296669|The lens of the eye is one of the rare organs in which tumors do not occur spontaneously. It therefore appeared to us that lens cells would not present the background of spontaneous transformation toward malignancy found with many other cell cultures. We have cultured C3H/HeA mouse lens explant (MLE) cells for 70 wk and analyzed changes in malignancy-related phenotypes in function of the number of passages. In vitro, we studied morphology, colony forming efficiency on tissue culture plastic substrate (CFEtc) and in soft agar, population doubling time, saturation density, and invasiveness into precultured chick heart fragments. In vivo, tumorigenicity, invasion, and metastasis were analyzed after injection of cell suspensions subcutaneously and intraperitoneally, after implantation of cells aggregated to collagen sponges under the renal capsule and after implantation of cell aggregates subcutaneously into the tail and into the pinna. The CFEtc, population doubling time, and saturation density increased as the number of passages of culture in vitro increased, but colony formation in soft agar was never observed. MLE cells till passage 16 were not invasive in vitro, but hereafter consistently were found to be invasive. After about 17 passages, corresponding to 25 wk of culture, MLE cells acquired the capacity to form tumors in syngeneic mice. These tumors were invasive but metastases were not observed. We concluded that MLE cells acquired in an apparently spontaneous way a number of malignancy-related phenotypes, without, however, reaching the stage of metastasis.
4295901|We examined cellular protein content in four temperature-sensitive (ts) mutants of rat 3Y1 fibroblasts (3YltsD123, 3Y1tsF121, 3Y1tsG125, and 3Y1tsH203) under various conditions of culture that affect cell proliferation. When proliferation of the ts mutants was inhibited at a nonpermissive temperature (
4296936|The successful establishment of a postcrisis SV-40 T antigen transformed epithelial cell line, 1HAEo-, which retains tight junctions and vectorial ion transport, is described. Immunocytochemical analysis of 1HAEo-cells shows a defined pattern of cytokeratin staining and a characteristic pericellular localization of the adhesion molecule cellCAM 120/80, indicating the presence of junctional complexes. The presence of both tight junctions and desmosomes has been confirmed by electron microscopy. Cell monolayers have good transepithelial resistance measured in Ussing chambers. Cells increase chloride ion transport in response to addition of agents that raise either intracellular cAMP or calcium, measured either by
4296445|This paper describes a method for the preparation of co-cultures of rat heart cells and bovine adrenal chromaffin para neurons. The most suitable condition for heart cell isolation was when a combination of trypsin-DNAse I in Locke's solution was used for digestion. The best co-culture conditions were obtained when
4296566| When embryonic retina is dissociated into a single cell suspension and maintained in stationary culture, a population of flat cells is found on the culture dish. We have carried out a morphologic and immunologic study of the emergence of this population in vitro. Ten- and fourteen-day-old chick embryo retinas were dissociated with trypsin, seeded on glass cover slips for various times, and prepared for scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and immunofluorescence (IF) for Vimentin, an intermediate filament protein. SEM indicates that the characteristic flat cell morphology is initiated in some cells in as little as 30 min after the start of the culture. Not all of the cells that attach flatten. As incubation proceeds, small clusters of cells that had formed in suspension attach to the substrate, and flat cells emerge from them. The flattened cells are positive for Vimentin by IF within 10 min of attachment. The percent of fluorescent cells found on the substrate is constant during the time in culture. This suggests that flat cells do not attach first, followed by neural cells, but that the neural cells and flat cells attach to the dish at the same rate. When aggregates that had formed in suspension attach to the substrate, they are anchored by flat cells that migrate out of the aggregate. Since Vimentin appears in the cultured cells within 10 min, it is unlikely that it has been newly synthesized. Thus, the same cells that contained Vimentin in the retina now express it as flat cells. This supports the hypothesis that flat cells derive from the same cells in the retina that give rise to Mller cells. We have also observed the emergence of a population of cells with short (0.5 m) microvilli that appear within 8 h of culture. They seem to be a distinct subpopulation of the cells on the upper portion of attached clusters. 
4296500| In vitro, human dermal fibroblasts (HDF) differentiate through morphologically and biochemically identified compartments. In the course of this spontaneous differentiation through mitotic and postmitotic states, a tremendous increase in cellular and nuclear size occurs. Induction of postmitotic states can be accelerated by chemical (e.g., mitomycin C) or physical (e.g., x-ray) treatments. Such experimentally induced postmitotic HDF cells support very efficiently the growth of cutaneous epithelial cells, i.e. interfollicular keratinocytes and follicular outer root sheath cells, especially in primary cultures starting from very low cell seeding densities. The HDF feeder system provides more fundamental and also practical advantages, i.e. use of initially diploid human fibroblasts from known anatomic locations, easy handling and excellent reproducibility, and the possibility of long-term storage by incubation at 37 C. Conditions for the cryogenic storage of postmitotic HDF cells in liquid nitrogen are presented and related to the feeder capacity for epithelial cell growth. Because postmitotic HDF cells preserve intact feeder properties after long-term storage, the immediate availability of feeder cells and the possibility to repeat experiments with identical materials further substantiate the usefulness of this feeder system. 
4295726|This laboratory recently reported that normal human mesothelial cells require epidermal growth factor (EGF) and hydrocortisone (HC), in addition to fetal calf serum and a complex defined medium component, in order to grow optimally in surface culture (9). We report here that this normal cell type also forms large colonies at high efficiency in semi-solid medium, but exhibits more stringent serum and EGF requirements for anchorage-independent than for surface growth. Mesothelial cells are unable to divide at all in semi-solid medium without added EGF or with less than 2% serum, whereas they grow slowly but progressively in surface culture under such conditions. In semi-solid medium containing 20% serum and HC, mesothelial cells are stimulated to divide by the addition of as little as 30 pg/ml purified EGF. Human urine or male mouse plasma could substitute for purified EGF, yielding growth commensurate with the levels of EGF in these biological fluids previously measured by others using radioreceptor and radioimmune assays. Thus growth of mesothelial cells in semi-solid medium can serve as a highly sensitive assay of EGF biological activity which is unaffected by the presence of serum proteins. In addition, our results demonstrate that fetal calf serum does not provide mitogenic levels of EGF to cultured cells, raising the question of the identity of plasma and serum mitogens.
20171408| The proto-oncogene c-myc, whose gene product has a role in replication, is overexpressed in the human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cell line. Treatment of HL-60 cells with an antisense oligo-deoxyribonucleotide complementary to the start codon and the next four codons of c-myc mRNA has previously been observed to inhibit c-myc protein expression and cell proliferation in a sequence-specific, dose-dependent manner. Comparable effects are seen upon treatment of HL-60 cells with dimethylsulfoxide (MeSO), which is also known to induce granulocytic differentiation of HL-60 cells. Hence, the effects of antisense oligomers on cellular differentiation were examined and compared with MeSO. Differentiation of HL-60 cells into forms with granulocytic characteristics was found to be enhanced in a sequence-specific manner by the anti-myc oligomer. No synergism was observed between the anti-myc oligomer and MeSO in stimulating cellular differentiation. In contrast, synergism did appear in the inhibition of cell proliferation. Finally, the anti-c-myc oligomer uniformly inhibited colony formation in semisolid medium. It is possible that further reduction in the level of c-myc expression by antisene oligomer inhibition may be sufficient to allow terminal granulocytic differentiation and reverse transformation. 
20171386| The analysis of lipoprotein synthesis and secretion in primary hepatocytes has been restricted by the short-term viability and low proliferative response of hepatocytes in vitro. During this investigation a serum-free medium formulation was developed that supports long-term maintenance (&gt; 70 d) and active proliferation of primary baboon hepatocytes. Examination of proliferating cells by electron microscopy revealed a distinctive hepatocyte ultrastructure including intercellular bile canaliculi and numerous surface microvilli. High levels of secreted apolipoproteins A-I and E were detected in the tissue culture medium by gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis. Immunoprecipitation of proteins from [S]-methionine labeled tissue culture medium revealed the synthesis and secretion of numerous plasma proteins. Metabolic labeling of cells with [S]-methionine followed by single-spin density gradient flotation of the media demonstrated that apolipoproteins were being secreted in the form of lipoprotein particles with buoyant densities corresponding to the very low density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein range, and to the high density lipoprotein range. The labeled apolipoproteins included
4296544| A human macrophagelike cell line which grows in serum-free medium was established from a histiocytic lymphoma cell line, U-937. U-937 cells failed to differentiate into macrophagelike cells in serum-free medium plus 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (TPA). Fibronectin and albumin in serum were necessary for differentiation of U-937 cells into macrophagelike cells in enriched RDF medium supplemented with insulin, transferrin, ethanolamine, selenite, egg yolk lipoprotein (eRDF-ITESL medium). The established cell line exhibited several characteristic properties of macrophage such as nitroblue tetrazolium reduction, phagocytic and -naphthylbutyrate-esterase activities, and tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1 production. At present the cells have been continuously maintained in eRDF-ITESL medium through over 150 passages. 
4296584|Fibronectin and heparin-binding growth factors (HBGF) are essential for growth of cultured endothelial cells. The stimulation of endothelial cell growth by HBGF type one (HBGF-1) in particular requires heparin or a similar glycosaminoglycan. The requirement for fibronectin and heparin for HBGF-1-stimulated endothelial cell growth may be related. HBGF-1 absorbed to the natural subcellular matrix of endothelial cells supports cell growth.
4296301|Somatic embryos of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] are induced on immature cotyledons explanted onto a medium containing moderately high levels of auxin. Germinability of embryos is related to morphologic normality, and both are reduced by excessive exposure to auxin during the induction process. Shoot meristem development was improved by reducing exposure of cotyledonary explants from 30 to 10 to 14 d on 10 mg/liter -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). A 3-d exposure was sufficient to induce embryos, and embryo frequency was not significantly increased by exposures to NAA for more than 1 wk. Embryo frequency was enhanced, however, by transfer after 9 d to fresh medium containing 10 mg/liter NAA. Germination of morphologically normal embryos was achieved without growth regulators, after maturation for 1 mo. on hormone-free medium and desiccation for 1 wk in a sealed, dry container.
4296392|High yields of human hepatocytes (up to
4296076|Studies were carried out to analyze the mechanism by which extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules and soluble growth factors interplay to control capillary endothelial cell growth. Bovine adrenal capillary endothelial cells attached to purified matrix components but spread poorly and exhibited low levels of DNA synthesis in the absence of exogenous growth factors or serum. Addition of cationic, heparin-binding growth factor purified from either human hepatoma cells or normal bovine pituitary (fibroblast growth factor) induced extensive cell spreading and up to eight fold increases in DNA synthetic rates relative to levels observed in cells on similar substrata in the absence of mitogen. However, the extent of this response differed depending upon the type of ECM molecule used for cell attachment (fold increase on type III collagen > gelatin > type IV collagen > fibronectin > type V collagen >>> laminin). Computerized morphometry demonstrated that endothelial cell DNA synthetic rates increased in an exponential fashion in direct relation to linear increases in cell and nuclear size (projected areas). Similarly sized cells always displayed the same level of DNA synthesis independent of the type of ECM molecule used for cell attachment or the presence of saturating amounts of growth factor. In all cases, DNA metabolism appeared to be coupled to physical expansion of the cell and nucleus rather than to a specific cell morphology (e.g. polygonal versus bipolar). These findings suggest that ECM may act locally as a "solid state" regulator of angiogenesis through its ability to selectively support or prohibit cell and nuclear extension in response to stimulation by soluble mitogens.
4296701|Human adult endothelial cells (ECs) were cultured on liquid-liquid interface formed when aqueous culture medium is overlaid onto a fluorocarbon solvent. When ECs were seeded on untreated interfaces, some cells seemed to attach but they did not spread or grow. In contrast, when ECs were seeded on interfaces pretreated with such proteins as collagen type IV (COL), laminin (LN), fibronectin (FN), and fibrinogen (FG) the cells spread and proliferated until they formed confluent monolayers. Proteins such as bovine serum albumin (BSA) or gelatin (GN) were not as effective in providing surfaces for vigorous growth. Cells grown on fluorocarbon interfaces expressed specialized characteristics exhibited by endothelial cells grown under the usual culture conditions; they grew in a cobblestone monolayer, stained positively for Factor VIII-related antigen, and produced angiotensin-converting enzyme. The growth rate of ECs was the same whether they were cultured on treated fluorocarbon interfaces or on the usual tissue culture plastic surfaces. Using this culture system, the interactions of ECs with various adhesive proteins used as substrata was examined. ECs were observed to attach readily to the interfaces coated with GN, COL, LN, FN, and FG, but poorly to those coated with BSA. All the substrates tested, with the exception of BSA, promoted EC growth on fluorocarbon interfaces; ECs tended to grow more rapidly on COL- or FG-coated interfaces than on LN-, FN-, or GN-coated interfaces.
4296357| The replication of simian virus 40 DNA and protein synthesis in BSC-1 cells was analyzed in vitro after treatment with 5,6-dihydro-5-azacytidine (DH-5-AzaCR) or 5-azacytidine (5-AzaCR). Results demonstrated that after a 3-h treatment period with 100 g/ml, DH-5-AzaCR exhibited a 77% inhibition of viral DNA synthesis, whereas 5-AzaCR resulted in a 50% inhibition. Stimulation of DNA synthesis occurred when infected cultures were treated with low doses (0.1 to 0.5 g/ml) of 5-AzaCR for 3 h and after 1 and 2 h of treatment with 100 g/ml of 5-AzaCR; however, stimulation did not occur with DH-5-AzaCR. DNA synthesized in the presence of either drug demonstrated altered conformations when analyzed on agarose gels; however this alteration was negligible after DH-5-AzaCR treatment, but more pronounced in the presence of 5-AzaCR. Restriction enzyme analysis suggests that DH-5-AzaCR may not be a hypomethylating agent as is 5-AzaCR. Inhibition of total protein synthesis (cellular and viral) was essentially complete 6 h after treatment with DH-5-AzaCR, whereas 5-AzaCR completely inhibited protein synthesis after 3 h. These data indicate that 5-AzaCR does not exhibit a direct dose relationship to the inhibition of DNA synthesis whereas DH-5-AzaCR may show some dose relationship, and that DH-5-AzaCR is a more potent inhibitor of DNA synthesis as compared to 5-AzaCR. 
20171461| In previous work we have shown that perifused GH cells exhibit spontaneously accelerating growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (PRL) secretory rates. This behavior contrasts with GH and PRL secretion rates that are decreasing or stable over the same 3-d period in static cell culture. We now report that GH cells maintained in serum-supplemented medium produce an autocrine-paracrine factor(s) which inhibits GH secretion in plate culture; PRL release is frequently reduced as well. The inhibitory effect of conditioned medium on GH secretion was concentration dependent, whereas PRL release was stimulated at low and inhibited at high concentrations over the same range. Extensive dialysis of conditioned medium using membranes with a molecular weight cut-off of 12 000-14 000 did not remove GH inhibition but produced a retentate that stimulated PRL secretion. Heat-inactivation of conditioned medium did not abolish inhibition of GH release but did remove the PRL-stimulatory effect. IGF-I added to fresh culture medium did not reproduce the GH-inhibitory effects of conditioned medium. We conclude that GH cell secretory behavior in perifusion and plate culture systems may be partially explained by the production of an autocrine-paracrine factor: its accumulation in plate culture inhibits GH and PRL secretion whereas its removal, by perifusing medium, allows GH and PRL secretion to accelerate. 
4296795| Procedures for the serum-free culture of a density fractionated population of bovine bronchial epithelial cells have been established. Epithelial cells dispersed by protease digestion were fractionated by density equilibrium centrifugation, followed by plating of the small basal-like population on type I collagen-coated culture dishes. Two or three passages of 1:4 split enriched for a population of actively dividing cells, which could be stored in liquid nitrogen for subsequent use. Clonal growth assays revealed optimum proliferation using a 1:1 mixture of medium RPMI 1640 and LHC-9, a medium employed for human bronchial epithelial cells. Cellular growth rate, which was 0.6 to 1.3 doublings per day depending on the cell preparation, was conveniently decreased by supplementing LHC-9 medium with less than 50% RPMI. In contrast to airway epithelial cell cultures from other species, serum stimulated the growth of bovine bronchial epithelial cells in this system. Transforming growth factor 1, however, inhibited growth and induced differentiation into a squamous phenotype. Also in contrast with other systems, the bovine cells were resistant to growth inhibition by 100 nM tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate or 1 M calcium ionophore A23187. Combination of phorbol ester with ionophore decreased mitotic activity, although induction of squamous morphology was not observed. Therefore, growth inhibition and squamous differentiation were not tightly coupled in this system. Finally, biologically synthesized matrix deposited by these cells stimulated growth rate. This culture system will therefore be useful in assessing the activities of both soluble and matrix-associated factors in the absence of serum. 
4296336|Human peripheral blood monocytes, upon activation, have the capacity to oxidize low density lipoprotein (LDL) and render the LDL toxic to cultured cells. Previous studies by our laboratory indicate that this process is mediated by free radicals in that it can be prevented by addition of free radical scavengers and antioxidants during the incubation of monocytes with LDL. Here we report that optimal modification of LDL by monocytes was influenced by media composition. In the absence of added metal ions, oxidation was distinctly dependent on the concentration of monocytes as well as LDL concentration. Exposure of monocytes to lipopolysaccharide or stimulation of phagocytosis by opsonized zymosan resulted in marked enhancement of LDL oxidation compared to other activating agents. After exposure to activated monocytes, lipid oxidation products in the supernatant were found both in a high molecular weight fraction containing LDL (>30 000 Daltons) and in a lipoprotein-free, low molecular weight fraction (<30 000 Daltons), yet only the high molecular weight, LDL-containing fraction was toxic to target cells. In addition, human myelomonocytic cell lines U937 and HL60 were shown to mediate oxidation of LDL. As with monocytes, exposing these cells to opsonized zymosan caused the level of LDL oxidation to be significantly enhanced. These findings offer further insight into the mechanisms of monocyte-mediated oxidation of lipoproteins and will facilitate studies investigating the role of monocyte-modified LDL in tissue injury.
4296718|Fetal rat distal lung epithelial cells, in contrast to adult type II pneumocytes, will divide readily in culture in the presence of 10% (vol:vol) fetal bovine serum. The presence of serum makes purification of uncontaminated cell-derived growth factors difficult and modifies cellular responses to oxidant injury. We report the development of a defined serum-free medium that will support growth of fetal distal lung epithelial cells in primary culture. Initial studies used a low-serum (2%; vol:vol) to determine the effect of basal media, substrata, and various additives. Subsequent studies demonstrated growth on a poly-D-lysine substratum under serum-free culture conditions in Dulbecco's modified minimal essential medium with insulin (
4296456| Inflorescence stalks from greenhouse-grown Gladiolus plants of the cultivars 'Blue Isle' and 'Hunting Song' cultured on a Murashige and Skoog basal salts medium supplemented with 53.6 M l-napthaleneacetic acid formed a compact, not friable type of callus that regenerated plantlets. Cormel slices and intact plantlets of three cultivars ('Peter Pears/'Rosa Supreme,' 'Jenny Lee') propagated through tissue culture formed a friable type of callus when cultured on Murashige and Skoog basal salts medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. This friable callus readily formed a cell suspension when the callus was placed in a liquid medium. Plants were regenerated from two-month-old suspension cell cultures of the commercial cultivar 'Peter Pears' after the suspension cells had been cultured on solid medium. 
4296223|We studied the interaction of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) with umbilical vein endothelial cells infected with herpes simpflex virus (HSV) type 1. PMNs labeled with
4296315|Colonies of HeLa cells cultured in media supplemented with human or bovine serum or both can be morphologically described as three types: diffuse, intermediate, and compact, with their modal distribution depending on the serum or sera added to the growth medium. We have observed that for a particular medium or serum system, the percentage of compact colonies remains fairly constant under normal culture conditions, 0.2%, whereas the diffuse and intermediate colonies vary over a much wider range. The presence of certain substances as trypsin, heparin and Darvan in the medium favor the increase of compact colonies at the expense of other types. Furthermore, we have discovered that colonial morphology is influenced by cocultivation of the HeLa cells with human fibroblastlike cells, the compact colonies increasing as the density of the fibroblast element introduced into the mixed cultures is increased. Subsequent investigation revealed that conditioned medium from confluent fibroblast and HeLa cell cultures contained a factor(s), that significantly increased the percentage of compact colonies. The factor is nondialyzable, heat-stable and can be neutralized by serum. Recorded in this presentation are preliminary observations on the kinetics of colony formation and the interaction among the three HeLa cell colony types, the diffuse, the intermediate, and the compact. The factor's effect on HeLa cell colonial morphology is time dependent and rapidly reversed if the factor(s) is removed and fresh medium added.
20171547|Primary cultures of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) were obtained by a two-step enzymatic digestion of guinea pig prostatic stroma. Ultrastructural morphology and growth characteristics of these cells conformed to those reported for SMCs isolated from vascular and visceral tissue sources. Electron microscopic examination indicated that the cells assumed modified myofibroblastoid features in culture. Microfilaments with associated dense bodies were markedly depleted in cultured smooth muscle cells, in comparison with those of the parent tissue. Cultured cells also possessed increased content of rough endoplasmic reticulum indicating the increased secretory or protein-synthetic capacity of the cells. Immunoperoxidase staining for cytoskeletal markers using monoclonal antibodies to desmin and vimentin supported the ultrastructural observations, suggesting a decline in desmin-staining intermediate filaments during "modulation" to the myofibroblastoid form. Despite this depletion of smooth muscle-specific differentiation markers and reversion to more general mesenchymal properties, the cells retained the ability to contract on challenge with norepinephrine, and grew in the characteristic "hill and valley" pattern on attaining confluence. Inasmuch as the estrogen and androgen receptor expression of the parent stromal tissue is also retained, these primary cell cultures should provide a useful model to study regulation of prostatic development.
4296796|A new low shear stress microcarrier culture system has been developed at NASA's Johnson Space Center that permits three-dimensional tissue culture. Two established human colon adenocarcinoma cell lines, HT-29, an undifferentiated, and HT-29KM, a stable, moderately differentiated subline of HT-29, were grown in new tissue culture bioreactors called Rotating-Wall Vessels (RWVs). RWVs are used in conjunction with multicellular cocultivation to develop a unique in vitro tissue modeling system. Cells were cultivated on Cytodex-3 microcarrier beads, with and without mixed normal human colonic fibroblasts, which served as the mesenchymal layer. Culture of the tumor lines in the absence of fibroblasts produced spheroidlike growth and minimal differentiation. In contrast, when tumor lines were co-cultivated with normal colonic fibroblasts, initial growth was confined to the fibroblast population until the microcarriers were covered. The tumor cells then commenced proliferation at an accelerated rate, organizing themselves into three-dimensional tissue masses that achieved 1.0- to 1.5-cm diameters. The masses displayed glandular structures, apical and internal glandular microvilli, tight intercellular junctions, desmosomes, cellular polarity, sinusoid development, internalized mucin, and structural organization akin to normal colon crypt development. Differentiated samples were subjected to transmission and scanning electron microscopy and histologie analysis, revealing embryoniclike mesenchymal cells lining the areas around the growth matrices. Necrosis was minimal throughout the tissue masses. These data suggest that the RWV affords a new model for investigation and isolation of growth, regulatory, and structural processes within neoplastic and normal tissue.
4296453|This paper describes the microscopic evidence supporting a cesium-induced delay in the fusion of chick embryo myoblast membranes during in vitro myogenic differentiation. We have recently demonstrated that the sharp decrease in the conductivity and permittivity of the membranes of these myogenic cells at the time of fusion is delayed 30 h by the addition of cesium to the culture medium (Santini et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta 945:56-64; 1988). We report here that this delay in fusion is substantiated by direct microscopic observation and that cesium also induces ultrastructural changes in the myoblast cells themselves. Possible mechanisms by which cesium may cause both the delay in fusion as well as the ultrastructural changes observed are discussed.
4296563|We have developed new co-cultures of continuous cell lines 3T3 (clone A31) and C3H/10T1/2 (clone 8) with hepatocytes as an alternative to co-cultures with noncontinuous epithelial cells. In this biological system we studied in detail the expression of the hepatic biotransformation system. After 7 d in culture, total cytochrome P-450 content and the monooxygenase activities aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 7-ethoxycoumarin o-deethylase still maintained about 30% of their initial value, whereas in pure cultured hepatocytes these activities were undetectable. A significant response to induction by methylcholanthrene and phenobarbital of monooxygenase activities was observed in co-cultures for 7 d. NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activity remained unchanged for at least 7 d in co-cultured hepatocytes, whereas in pure cultures this activity was reduced to about 75% of the initial value after only 24 h. Finally, the activity of the conjugating enzymes UDP-Gt and GSH-t was maintained at nearly the initial levels during the complete period of study. The easy handling of continuous cell lines and the maintenance of the biotransformation system of hepatocytes in co-culture make this approach simpler and easier to standardize.
4295919|Studies were performed to compare three methods to detect mycoplasmal infection of cell cultures. The methods included microbiological assay by inoculation into broth and onto agar with anaerobic incubation, fluorescent DNA staining by Hoechst 33258, and mycoplasmal mediated cytotoxicity by 6 methylpurine deoxyriboside (6MPDR). Fluorescent DNA staining and 6MPDR assays were performed in an indicator cell culture system. A total of 2589 cell cultures were assayed. Mycoplasmas were detected in 174, an incidence of 6.7%. Species isolated were: Acholeplasma laidlawii, Mycoplasma orale, M. arginini, M. hyorhinis, M. fermentans, M. pirum, and M. pneumoniae. In separate studies, 6MPDR also detected infection with Spiroplasma mirum when this organism was deliberately inoculated into cell cultures. The efficiencies of microbiological testing, fluorescent DNA assays, and 6MPDR were 43.1, 98.8, and 97.1%, respectively.
4296867|A human yolk sac tumor cell line, TG1, which was established from a testicular yolk sac tumor, was found to replicate continuously in a chemically defined medium supplemented with
4296354|Membrane-coating granules (MCG) are poorly understood lamellate organelles unique to keratinized epithelia. This study provides data on a skin model for future in vitro investigations of MCG. Porcine ear epidermal organ cultures were used under standard cell culture conditions. This system was selected because it is easily established and, following a degenerative period in which MCG are lost, regenerates to form a highly differentiated epidermis. The epidermis appeared healthy during the first 2 d in vitro and contained MCG but lost keratohyalin granules (KHG). Overt degenerative changes were evident in the upper epidermis on Day 3, and MCG were now bloated. By Day 4 only one to three layers of viable undifferentiated cells remained. In the overlying necrotic epidermis MCG were rare, presumably due to the bursting of bloated MCG. Epidermal regeneration began around Day 5 and by Day 7 there were 8 to 13 layers, including a rudimentary parakeratotic stratum corneum (up to 4 layers). The stratum granulosum (two to three layers) now contained immature KHG and poorly lamellate MCG, but only amorphous material extracellularly. By Day 11 there were three to four layers of granular cells as in vivo, and an orthokeratotic stratum corneum (two to four layers). Improved cornification coincided with an increased number of mature KHG and cross-banded MCG, and lamellate MCG contents extracellularly. This model of epidermal regeneration will facilitate studies into the role played by MCG in keratinization because the epithelium initially lacked MCG but later expressed all the major morphologic features of epidermis. Furthermore the mechanisms by which MCG translocation and extrusion are effected may be probed by the inclusion of such agents as antimicrotubular drugs and calcium ionophores.
4296197|The cell line UFL-AG-286 was established from the embryos of Anticarsia gemmatalis (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). The cell line was characterized by isozyme analysis and from molecular weight determination of the restriction endonuclease bands of the mitochondrial DNA. Cells seeded in 24-cluster wells had a doubling time of 5.9 d when seeded at 2  10
4296022|The epithelial morphology of the hamster trachea in serum-free organ culture was compared with that of age-matched in vivo control tissues by collecting and statistically analyzing several quantifiable parameters. By this technique it was possible to detect both subtle and dramatic epithelial alterations. Midtracheal tissues from 6-wk-old male Syrian golden hamsters were used as the explants. Explants were placed on Gelfoam sponges and cultured for 1, 2, and 3 wk in CMRL 1066 alone and in CMRL 1066 to which seven factors were added: insulin and transferrin (
4295834|Recent electrophysiological and pharmacological studies have confirmed previous clinical evidence that the gene defect in cystic fibrosis is strongly expressed in the sweat gland. This has provided a major impetus to efforts to culture the cells of this tissue in order to provide a source of experimental material for molecular studies. Toward this end, eccrine sweat glands were isolated from collagenase treated skin specimens and the secretory coil and the reabsorptive duct separated. Segments of each portion of the gland were transferred to a plastic or collagen substrate and covered with serum-containing or serum-free defined growth media. Epithelial cell outgrowth took place in both media but fibroblast overgrowth occurred in the presence of serum at concentrations as low as 1%. In serum-free medium both secretory and reabsorptive cells formed tightly joined epithelial sheets, first as monolayers and later as multilayers consisting of at least six cell layers. Growth continued for approximately fifteen generations each of about two and a hahf days. Remarkably large domes or hemicysts with diameters as great as two cm were formed, apparently attesting to the retention of the capacity of the cells to actively transport ions and water. Ultrastructurally, cells which grew out from the secretory coil ressembled the fluid secreting clear cells; neither dark cells nor myoepithelial cells were propagated.
4296704|Bicarbonate in the culture medium is essential for DNA synthesis of primary cultured rat hepatocytes stimulated by epidermal growth factor (EGF). When primary cultured hepatocytes in supplemented Leibovitz L15 medium were placed in a 100% air incubator, no increase in DNA synthesis was observed even after stimulation by EGF. However, when these cells were cultured with NaHCO
4296467|The ganglioside composition of calf aortic smooth muscle cells, cultured in the presence and absence of ascorbate, was analyzed. Previous work has shown that ascorbate supplementation leads to the formation of an extracellular matrix consisting primarily of collagen and that this matrix influences the biosynthetic capabilities of the cell. Cell cultures were supplemented with ascorbate for 3 wk and labeled with
4296200|Epithelial cells were isolated from fetal bovine trachea by exposing and stripping the mucosal epithelium from the adjacent connective tissue. The tissue was minced and enzymically dissociated in Ca-Mg-free medium containing dispase and dithiothreitol. The stripping procedure and selective trypsinization produced epithelial cell cultures free of fibroblasts. Seeded on plastic, the plating efficiency was 21.5% with a doubling time of 24 h. Dome formation, evidence of occluding junctions and active ion transport characteristic of epithelial cells, was common. Growth of the cells on glass, collagen, and Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm (EHS) substrate demonstrated a striking difference in morphology. Cells grown on EHS presented a more distinctly three-dimensional growth pattern and many more microvilli when compared to cells grown on glass or collagen. The cells retained their epithelioid characteristics through more than 30 passages as shown by the presence of distinct apical and basolateral membranes, tight junctions, and positive keratin staining.
4296465|We previously documented both the spontaneous acceleration of growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (PRL) production by
4295845|Studies on the tumorigenicity of Vero kidney cells of Cercopithecus aethiops monkey origin were extended to various passage levels of BSC-1 aneuploid cells and to low passage CV-1 diploid cells (derived also from C. aethiops monkey kidney). It was found that BSC-1 cells - like Vero cells - showed increased tumorigenicity with increasing passage level in antithymocyte globulin (ATG) treated newborn rats and in nude mice. Cells passaged over 250 times in cultures formed invasive adenocarcinomas in newborn rats. Their malignant tumor growth was further demonstrated around the 500 passage level when tumor metastases were detected in the lungs of four of the 14 inoculated rats. Vero cells induced such lung metastases in rats already at passage 227. CV-1 diploid cells at low passage level produced small nodules of epithelioid cells in newborn rats at 6th day after inoculation that had disappeared by the 21st day, and caused no local invasion nor lung metastasis. In vitro tumorigenicity tests on BSC-1 and CV-1 cells, using chick embryo skin, human muscle and colony formation in agarose, confirmed the animal test results. The results of this study indicate that BSC-1 and Vero cell lines at low and high passage levels may prove to be useful tools to study the molecular basis of malignancy.
4296216|We have studied the responses of three human retinoblastoma cell lines (GM1232, Y79, and WERI-Rb1) to substratum-bound laminin (LN), fibronectin (FN), or collagen (CN) in serum-containing medium. About 95% of the cells attached to poly-D-lysine (PN)-pretreated plastic surfaces either unbound or protein-bound within 1 h after plating. With PN-bound LN, GM1232 cells showed an outgrowth of processes and cell spread within 1 d, but very little was seen on PN-bound FN, CN, or unbound PN even by Day 4. Both the percentage of cells with processes and the number of processes/cell were dependent on the amount of LN bound to the surfaces at Day 4. On LN surfaces without PN pretreatment, by Day 2 most cells had formed floating aggregates and were not attached to the surfaces. By Day 4 only a part of the peripheral cells of attached aggregates displayed process outgrowth and cell spreading. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) maintained these effects of PN-bound LN, and promoted process branching, cell spreading, and elongation with concomitant inhibition of cell growth. The percentage of cells with processes was 83%. Y79 and WERI-Rbl cells, passed for several years, showed little and weak response to PN-bound LN either in the absence or presence of dbcAMP. These results indicate that the morphologic differentiation of GM1232 cells is elicited specifically by PN-bound LN, and that dbcAMP maintains and promotes this differentiated status.
20171565|Atrial and ventricular cardiac muscle cells isolated from 14- to 18-wk old fetal human hearts were grown in culture and characterized. Once established in culture the flattened cells contracted spontaneously and possessed differentiated ultrastructural characteristics including organized sarcomeres, intercalated discs, and transverse tubules with couplings. Atrial granules were present in the cultured atrial cells. Some cultured ventricular myocytes also contained electron-dense granules associated with Golgi cisternae, which were similar in size and appearance to atrial granules. The cultured ventricular myocytes divided and expressed the genes for thymidine kinase, histone H4, myosin heavy chain, muscle-specific creatine kinase, atrial natriuretic factor, and insulin-like growth factor II. These results establish that differentiated fetal human heart muscle cells can be cultured in sufficient quantities for biochemical, molecular, and morphological analyses.
4296497|The human leukemic cells HL-60, U937, KG-1 and THP-1 incubated with transforming growth
4296904|The factors involved in
20171424| Cross-linked poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) microspheres were subjected to alkaline hydrolysis to obtain hydrophilic microspheres having carboxyl residues distributed throughout the matrix. These microspheres were found to support the growth of human skin fibroblasts and human heart and lung cells. Further, fibroblasts grown on them were found to be comparable with those grown on the commercial tissue culture plate with respect to [C]amino acid uptake and incorporation into proteins. The hydrolyzed PMMA microspheres may find application as a microcarrier for cell culture. 
4296589|We compared the growth and morphology of normal, dysplastic and malignant human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) in medium containing 5% human serum, a serum-free medium (32) and serum-free medium with a low Ca
4296490|A novel relaxin sensitive cell line of apparent smooth muscle origin has been established from a newborn rhesus monkey uterus (NRMU). NRMU cells respond to relaxin, in the presence of 1  M forskolin, by producing intracellular adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP). The increase in cAMP levels is dose, time and cell density dependent, reaching peak levels at 10 min when cells are seeded at 1  10<sup>5</sup> cells/well. Specificity was demonstrated by neutralization of the relaxin activity with anti-relaxin monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, degradation of cAMP in the presence of phosphodiesterase, and confirmation of the absence of cGMP. Three synthetic analogs of human relaxin generated a dose-related cAMP response as did synthetic native human relaxin. Natural relaxin purified from human corpora lutea tissue also generated a response similar to synthetic human relaxin. Porcine and rat relaxing also increased levels of cAMP. Insulin, but not IGF I or IGF II, was capable of increasing cAMP levels in NRMU cells, however, 200 ng/mL were required to achieve cAMP levels comparable to 6.25 ng/ml relaxin. Combinations of relaxin with insulin, IGF I or IGF II did not increase cAMP levels above levels obtained with relaxin alone. The effect on NRMU cells of other hormones, growth factors and drugs potentially present in cell culture systems or serum samples was evaluated. In combination with relaxin, oxytocin significantly decreased the cAMP production below the levels induced by relaxin alone, whereas progesterone and prostaglandin E<sub>2</sub> resulted in additive increases in cAMP. These data suggest that the NRMU cell line is an appropriate target tissue for studying relaxin-mediated biological responses in vitro as well as functioning as the primary component of a relaxin in vitro bioassay.
20171360|A technique for the short-term culture of pure populations of rabbit corneal endothelial and epithelial cells has been developed. Rabbit corneas were placed on concave agarose surfaces, treated briefly with a solution of trypsin and ethylenediamine tetracetic acid, and transferred, either epithelial cell surface or endothelial cell surface down, to microscope slide culture chambers. Within 6 to 12 h the epithelial cells or endothelial cells attached to the slide chamber surface and the cornea was removed, leaving behind a pure population of cells which spread out and grew to fill the surface of the slide chamber. This technique provides a simple and economic means for the reproducible initiation of primary cultures of rabbit corneal epithelial and endothelial cells for us in a variety of experiments.
4295809| We have used cDNA clones for the B1 and B2 subunits of laminin to find restriction fragment length DNA polymorphisms for the genes encoding these polypeptides in the mouse. Three alleles were found for LamB2 and two for LamB1 among the inbred mouse strains. The segregation of these polymorphisms among recombinant inbred strains showed that these genes are tightly linked in the central region of mouse Chromosome 1 between Sas-1 and Ly-m22, 7.4  3.2 cM distal to the Pep-3 locus. There is no evidence in the mouse for pseudogenes for these proteins. 
4296425|GH cells are a widely used cell strain for the investigation of mechanisms regulating hormone release and synthesis. This report identifies two inducible phenotypes of the <tex-math>$GH_4$</tex-math> clone (epithelioid and motile) which may extend studies of this well-characterized cell line to different stages of pituitary cell development. <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math> cells treated in suspension with epidermal growth factor plus tetradecanoylphorbol acetate aggregate to form large epithelioid colonies with extensive cell-to-cell and cell-to-substratum adhesion. These cells cease replicating within 48 h, increase 50% in cell volume, and synthesize 40-fold more prolactin. A <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math> variant with enhanced substratum adhesion and little or no cell-to-cell adhesion (<tex-math>$GH_{4}S_1$</tex-math>), responds differently to this treatment. These cells cease replicating immediately, show increased cell separation, develop leading lamellae, and display locomotory activity. Each phenotype coexists in mixed cultures of <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$GH_{4}S_1$</tex-math> cells. This indicates that the different inducible response of the variant does not result from autocrine secretion. A molecular basis for cell-to-cell adhesion in <tex-math>$GH_4 $</tex-math>cells was investigated. <tex-math>$GH_{4}C_1$</tex-math>, but not the variant cells, express a 180 kDa immunoreactive protein indistinguishable from an isoform of the neural cell adhesion molecule. Therefore the absence of cell-to-cell adhesion and inability to develop extensive cell-to-cell adhesion characteristic of the epithelioid phenotype may result from altered expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule. These findings are important because they have defined an in vitro approach to investigate genetic and cellular changes associated with the development and progression of pituitary cell phenotype.
4296147| The isolation and culture of cell lines from mouse brain capillary endothelium (MBE) is described. Cells migrating from collagenase-treated capillary fragments proliferated rapidly in the 1st wk of culture forming large epithelioid cobblestonelike colonies. The cells showed only marginal proliferation after 2 to 3 wk in culture, until peripheral cells migrated away from the colony which exhibited a marked degree of proliferation. These cells were trypsinized and subcultured to confluence. The cells can be maintained for well over 40 passages and seem to retain their endothelial morphology. The endothelial origin of these cells was demonstrated by positive immunoperoxidase reactivity with Factor VIII-related antigen, specific binding of Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin and -glutamyl transpeptidase activity. Electron microscopic examination of the MBE cells showed junctional complexes including intermediate junctions, but no tight junctions. The overall ultrastructure indicates that a degree of dedifferentiation has occurred, the cells ultrastructurally resembling immature endothelium. An earlier investigation of cultured mouse brain endothelial cells reported a cell line that had lost many functional and structural characteristics. Our study demonstrates, as the previous one, that a certain degree of dedifferentiation needs to occur if MBE cells are to be maintained for long-term culture. However, the degree of dedifferentiation seems to be variable, depending in part on the culture conditions employed. 
4295716| Rat pancreatic acinar cells were isolated and cultured in Ham's F12 medium with 15% bovine calf serum. Caerulein, insulin, somatostatin, and dexamethasone (DEX) had no effect on intracellular or secreted amylase in these cultured cells. A serum-free medium, using Waymouth's MB 752/1 supplemented with albumin, epidermal growth factor (EGF), DEX, and HEPES, was then developed to avoid serum factors that might mask hormonal effects. In this SF medium, pancreatic acinar cells maintained the morphological and ultrastructural characteristics of freshly isolated cells and secreted amylase in response to the secretagogue, carbamyl choline. Insulin, at a concentration of 1 g/ml, significantly increased intracellular and secreted amylase activity after 3 d. This model cell system can be used to study the regulation of the synthesis of amylase and other pancreatic enzymes in vitro. 
20171439|We investigated the effects of conditioned media derived from mouse mammary fat pads on the proliferation of CL-S1 cells, an epithelial cell line originally isolated from a preneoplastic mammary outgrowth line. Cell proliferation in vitro in serum-free defined medium was compared to that in this medium conditioned using intact mammary fat pad pieces or isolated fat pad adipocytes. Culture medium was conditioned by incubating the conditioning material in defined culture medium for 24 h at 37 C. Conditioned medium induced CL-S1 proliferation as much as 10- to 20-fold above the minimal levels of growth in control cultures after 13 d of culture. The growth-stimulatory factor(s) had an apparent molecular weight of greater than 10 kDa. This growth-stimulatory activity was both heat and trypsin stable. Because the role of adipose tissue is to store and release lipids, we next tested whether lipids are released during medium conditioning. The lipid composition of the fat pad conditioned medium was characterized using both thin layer and gas liquid chromatography. These lipid analyses indicated that the fat pad pieces released significant amounts of fatty acids and phospholipids into the medium during the conditioning period. The free fatty acid composition included both saturated and unsaturated molecules, and about 80% of the total fatty acids consisted of palmitate, stearate, oleate, and linoleate. These same fatty acids were a structural component of the majority of phospholipid found in the medium. The addition of palmitate or stearate to defined medium had no effect or was inhibitory for CL-S1 proliferation, depending on the concentration used. Defined medium supplemented with oleate, arachidonate, or linoleate induced CL-S1 proliferation, and the inhibitory effects of palmitate and stearate were overcome by addition of oleate and linoleate. These data indicate that both unsaturated and saturated fatty acids are released from intact adipose cells of the mouse mammary fat pad and that fatty acids can influence the growth of preneoplastic mouse mammary epithelium. Thus, unsaturated fatty acids, perhaps in conjunction with other substances released simultaneously, are candidate molecules for the substances that mediate the effect of adipose tissue on growth of epithelium.
4296075| Nodal cuttings from micropropagated potato plantlets give rise to microtubers when placed on Murashige and Skoog medium containing 6% sucrose and 2.5 mg/liter kinetin and incubated in the dark at 19 C. Microtubers produced from the cultivar Superior were shown to contain the same characteristic group of proteins as field-grown tubers. As with field-grown tubers, the 40 000-dalton major tuber glycoprotein, patatin, accumulated to high levels in microtubers, reaching 3.7  0.2 mg/g fresh weight after 90 d. Also in agreement with field-grown plants, stems and leaves of micropropagated plantlets did not contain detectable levels of patatin, but small amounts of an electrophoretically distinct form accumulated transiently in roots. Patatin mRNA is readily detectable in developing microtubers 15 d after transfer of the cuttings to inductive medium. Patatin mRNA was also present in roots, but as with field-grown plants, was 50- to 100-fold less abundant and could be distinguished from that in tubers by primer extension. Microtuber development and patatin accumulation were inhibited by gibberellic acid. 
4295822|The adipogenic cell line 1246, which grows and differentiates in defined medium, stringently requires insulin for both processes. From this cell line, insulin-independent variants were isolated and characterized. Unlike 1246 cells, the variant cell lines proliferate without insulin, have lost their differentiation ability, produce factor(s) able to replace insulin to stimulate 1246 cell growth but not differentiation and are tumorigenic. Because of these properties, this system is appropriate to examine the correlation (if any) between the loss of response to an extra-cellular factor and of ability to differentiate, and between the production of endogenous growth factor and the acquisition of tumorigenic properties.
4296181|Confluent monolayers of normal human hepatocytes obtained by collagenase perfusion of liver fragments were incubated in a serum-free medium. Intracellular apolipoproteins apo AI, apo C, apo B, and apo E were detected between Day 1 and Day 6 of the culture by immunoenzymatic staining using polyclonal antibodies directed against these apoproteins and monoclonal antibodies directed against both forms of apo B (B100 and B48). Translation of mRNA isolated from these hepatocytes in an acellular system revealed that apo AI and apo E were synthesized as the precusor forms of mature plasma apo AI and apo E. Three lipoprotein fractions corresponding to the density of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL), and high density lipoprotein (HDL) were isolated from the medium at Day 5 of culture and examined by electron microscopy after negative staining. VLDL and LDL particles are similar in size and shape to plasma lipoproteins; spherical HDL are larger than normal plasma particles isolated at the same density. Their protein represented 44, 19.5, and 36.5% respectively, of the total lipoprotein protein. The secretion rate of VLDL protein corresponded to that measured in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes. After incorporation of
4296148|Mature seeds of plains Old World bluestem [Bothriochloa ischaemum (L.) Keng.] were used to initiate suspension cultures. The medium contained the major and minor minerals of Murashige and Skoog, Gamborg's B-5 vitamins, 30 g/liter sucrose, and 3 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid with or without 12 mM proline at pH 5.5. Cultures contained both embryogenic and nonembryogenic (NE) cells. Suspensions that had been filtered through a 40-mesh sieve were plated out on medium with 6 g/liter agar. Two-to-three weeks later, clumps that formed in suspension cultures that had been filtered previously were removed by filtration through a 40-mesh sieve and plated out on agar medium. Colonies were rated on the basis of surface area. Of the total area of colonies formed from plated suspensions 70.9% were embryogenic, 19.8% were NE, and 9.3% were mixed colonies. Of the total area from plated clumps, 57.1% were E, 12.9% were NE, and 30% were mixed colonies. Embryoid maturation and germination was accomplished by transferring E or mixed colonies to MS medium with 1 mg/liter zeatin (mixted isomers). Rooting was completed on half-strength basal MS medium. Over 90% of plantlets survived transfer to the greenhouse and 95% of them survived transfer to the field.
4296302|Development of somatic embryos of soybean Glycine max (L.) Merr. has been studied using cultivars J103 and McCall and five auxin-sucrose treatments: naphthalene acetic acid at 10 mg/liter with 1.5% sucrose (N10); 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) at 0.25, 0.5 or 1.0 mg/liter with 1.5% sucrose (D.25, D.5, D1); and 2,4-D at 25 mg/liter with 3% sucrose (D25). Cotyledons were excised aseptically from immature embryos 3 to 5 mm in length, and placed on the media with either the adaxial or abaxial side down (adaxial or abaxial orientiation, respectively). After 30 d, numbers of normal or total somatic embryos, or both, were counted. For J103 explants on D25 or N10 media, the greatest number of embryos was produced from the central region of abaxially oriented explants on D25, but only 5% of these embryos were normal. The greatest number of normal embryos was produced from the marginal region of adaxially oriented explants on D25. For McCall explants on D.25, D.5, Dl, or N10 media, the greatest numbers of normal embryos were produced from the marginal regions of abaxially oriented explants on D1 or N10. Embryo induction was examined histologically for the N10, D25, and D.5 treatments, using serial sections of paraffin-embedded cotyledons stained with hematoxylin and safranin. On N10 medium, embryos were produced unicellularly, or more frequently, multicellularly, from homogeneous embryogenie tissue arising from epidermal and subepidermal cells at the distal periphery of the cotyledon. On D25 medium, embryos were produced multicellularly from a heterogeneous embryogenic tissue formed in the central region of the cotyledon, and consisting of embryogenic cells interspersed with large, vacuolate cells. The D.5 treatment showed an intermediate response. Embryo initiation in this soybean system is predominantly multicellular.
20171358|On September 14 through 16, 1988, a meeting on the use of human fetal tissue in transplantation was held at the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda Maryland, USA. The meeting sponsored by NIH for the Human Fetal Tissue Transplantation Research Panel, a consultant group to the Advisory Committee to the Director. The consultant group was convened to deal with the scientific, judicial and moral questions associated with research involving transplantation of human fetal tissue obtained after induced abortions. The first day of the meeting was devoted to presentations addressing scientific issues. Included among the speakers was Dr. Lars Olson, Professor of Neurobiology, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, who described the use of transplanted human fetal tissue in the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease and Dr. Eugene Redmond, Professor of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, who showed results of work with transplantation of tissue to correct induced Parkinson-like disease in monkeys. Other speakers addressed the present, past or potential use of fetal tissue in the treatment of diabetes, immune disorders, and other diseases, as well as the use of fetal cells in the production of biologicals. At the conclusion of the meeting the panel did not recommend that research be halted on fetal tissue within the context discussed, although the recommendation of the committee is not binding, and an additional assembly of the panel will probably occur before the final recommendation to an NIH advisory committee is made in November. Other meetings on this subject include a meeting on the use of fetal tissue sponsored by the American Association of Tissue Banks, March 6-7, 1989, in Washington D. C. (Crystal City) and a meeting June 10, 1989, the day before the annual meeting of the Tissue Culture Association, USA, in Orlando, Florida, on fetal cells and ownership of cultured cells and products derived from clinical specimens. Following are statements to the Human Fetal Tissue Transplantation Research Panel presented September 14, 1988, by Dr. David Barnes, Associate Professor of Biochemistry and Biophysics in the Environmental Health Sciences Center at Oregon State University, USA, who was asked to address for the panel recent advances in cell culture related to fetal tissue, and Dr. Robert E. Stevenson, Director of the American Type Culture Collection, President of the Tissue Culture Association, USA, and Chairman of the Committee on Cells and Tumors of the American Association of Tissue Banks.
4295983|Sarcoma 180 monolayers spontaneously shed single cells and small multicellular aggregates into the surrounding medium to produce a dual population of floating and substratum-attached cells. Shedding was a motility-associated event that occurred when cells attempted to migrate over one another. It resulted from a combination of cell shape change and active motility, which increased sensitivity to fluid shear dislodgement by reducing a cell's surface area of adhesive contact and increasing strain tension at its adhesive contact points. Shedding occurred at all phases of the cell cycle. Extracellular matrix but not conditioned medium enhanced the floating subpopulation by slowing the kinetics of reattachment to plastic and cellular substrata. Although sarcoma 180 cells are anchorage independent in the sense that they grow readily in single cell suspension, they nevertheless exhibited anchorage modulation of their cell cycle. Short periods in suspension produced a mild G
4296081|Several dermal fibroblast lines have been established from explants taken from adult rats. The cells have been cultured for 2 yr and possess stable and well-defined growth characteristics through subculture 18. The cells are readily stored in liquid nitrogen with good viability after thawing. Collagenase activity secreted into the culture medium of the cells at different periods of growth has been examined. There is an 88% drop in total enzyme activity present in the medium between 4 and 14 d of culture, when the cells were plated to reach confluence at Day 8 to 10. A more pronounced fall is noted at earlier times when the cells are plated at a higher density. The correlation between DNA content of the cell monolayer and enzyme activity was -0.895, indicating a possible relationship between the growth of cells and collagenase release.
4296280|Primary cultures of murine renal epithelial cells were established from a preparation of proximal tubule fragments. Confluent cultures exhibited multiple dome formation, indicating the presence of tight junctions and an intact transcellular transport process. Ultrastructural analysis revealed a monolayer of polarized cells, with a sparse but clearly defined microvillar surface facing the growth medium and a basolateral surface attached to the substratum. Cultures grown on collagen gels did not show domes. The epithelial monolayer exhibited several differentiated functions of the proximal tubule: a) parathyroid hormone (PTH(-stimulated cAMP synthesis; b) production of 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D
4296403|Select medium and substratum conditions were investigated for their effects on semiconservative DNA synthesis in essentially pure primary cultures of bile ductular epithelial cells that were initially isolated from cholestatic rat livers at 6 to 10 wk after bile duct ligation. DNA synthesis in these cultured cells was serum-dependent, being at its highest level when the concentration of fetal bovine serum present in the medium was maintained at 10%. This serum-dependent DNA synthesis was completely inhibited when 10 mM hydroxyurea was also included in the medium, and bile ductular cells cultured in the continued presence of 1.0% fetal bovine serum showed only marginal DNA synthesis during 8 to 10 d of primary culture when compared with no-serum controls. Maximum rates of serum-dependent DNA synthesis were obtained when the bile ductular cells were cultured for 7 to 14 d on tissue culture plastic coated with either fibronectin from bovine plasma or type I rat-tail collagen. Cells cultured on plastic coated with basement membrane Matrigel exhibited the lowest levels of DNA synthesis, whereas those on plastic alone had intermediate amounts. Furthermore, the addition of epidermal growth factor (
20171492| Normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) from different individual reduction mammoplasty specimens were all growth inhibited, and showed a flattened, elongated morphology in response to human recombinant transforming growth factor 1 (TGF). The degree of growth inhibition varied among specimens, but none of the normal HMEC maintained growth in the continued presence of TGF. The degree of growth inhibition also varied with cell age in vitro, cell closer to senescence being more sensitive. TGF sensitivity was additionally assayed in two established cell lines derived from one of the reduction mammoplasty specimens after exposure to benzo(a)pyrene. Although varying degrees of growth inhibition and morphologic changes were observed in the cell lines, both lines contained populations that maintained active growth in the presence of TGF. Subclones of these lines demonstrated a great plasticity in their growth response to TGF, with individual clones ranging from strongly growth inhibited to nearly unaffected. These results suggest that multiple factors influence the extent of TGF-induced growth effects on both normal and transformed mammary epithelial cells, and that some of these factors may act through epigenetic mechanisms. 
4296094|Adenosine triphosphate is the primary energy unit for cells, and levels of this compound offer a potential marker for cell viability and growth. The availability of a bioluminescence assay allows for a rapid, sensitive, and reproducible measurement of ATP. A method is described for the quantification of intracellular ATP levels in human cancer cells. ATP levels were linearly related to the number of viable cells and increased with time in human cancer cell line cultures correlating with growth kinetics. The effect of 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, methotrexate, cytosine arabinoside, nitrogen mustard, melphalan, vinblastine, and cisplatin on the growth of human cancer cell lines was studied utilizing ATP levels. ATP levels and colony formation in agar of drug-exposed cells were compared. Overall there was a significant correlation between drug effects on colony formation and ATP levels. The ATP assay is rapid, simple, reproducible, and a relatively inexpensive method of quantifying drug effects on malignant cells. This makes it a potentially useful method for screening new anticancer drugs in human cancer cell lines.
20171589| An attempt was made to culture neural crest cells of the turtle embryo in vitro. Trunk neural tubes from the St. 9/10 embryos were explanted in culture dishes. The developmental potency of the turtle neural crest cells in vitro was shown to be essentially similar to that of avian neural crest cells, although they seem to be more sensitive to melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) stimulation. We describe conditions under which explanted neural tube gives rise to neural crest cells that differentiate into neuronal cells and melanocytes. The potency of melanocyte differentiation was found to vary according to the concentration of fetal bovine serum (FBS, from 5 to 20%). Melanization of neural crest cells cultured in the medium containing FBS and -MSH was more extensive than those cultured with FBS alone, combinations of FBS and chick embryo extract, or turtle embryo extract. These culture conditions seem to be useful for the study of the developmental potency of the neural crest cells as well as for investigating local environmental factors. 
4295767|The ability of a normal rat liver epithelial cell line with phenotypic characteristics of "oval" cells to grow in calcium-poor medium has been investigated. The growth of these cells could be arrested in medium containing
4296603|Primary cultures of human reabsorptive sweat duct cells were grown in MCDB 170 medium buffered with either HEPES, bicarbonate, or a mixture of HEPES and bicarbonate buffers. Cultures grown in MCDB media containing bicarbonate seemed to differentiate into a multilayered, keratinized epithelium and began senescing after 1 wk in culture. In contrast, cultures grown in media containing HEPES as the only buffer seemed to undergo a selection process, resulting in the outgrowth of cells that did not multilayer or keratinize extensively for up to 3 or 4 wk in culture. Despite marked differences in growth, cells grown in both bicarbonate and HEPES-buffered media retained electrophysiologic characteristics appropriate to the progenitor. Mean resting potentials
4296674|Renal cortical thick ascending limbs of Henle's loop (CAL) and distal convoluted tubules (DCT) represent sites at which much of the final regulation of urinary ionic composition, particularly that of calcium, is accomplished in both humans and in rodents. We sought in the present work to develop an efficient means for isolating parathyroid hormone (PTH)-sensitive cells from these nephron segments and to grow them in primary culture. [CAL+DCT] cells were isolated from mouse kidney using an antiserum against the Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein which, in the renal cortex, is produced exclusively by these cells. A second antibody conjugated to coated ferrous particles permitted magnetic separation of [CAL+DCT] cells from Tamm-Horsfall negative renal cortical cells. Approximately 3  10
4296689|The regulation of growth and development of insects is under endocrine control and involves both juvenile hormones and ecdysteroids. Neuropeptides are master regulators which control the secretion of these hormones. Most experiments in insect endocrinology have been conducted in vivo, but tissue culture methodology is playing an increasing role due to the great interest in simpler model systems for the study of complex processes that occur in vivo. The availability of appropriate media has allowed the culture of a variety of insect organs and cell lines of defined origin which have kept certain properties of the parent tissues. Tissue culture approaches have been useful for studying hormonal control of morphogenetic processes. Cell lines are particularly suited to the study of hormonally regulated mechanisms of macromolecular biosynthesis and gene expression. Thus, the value of in vitro analysis in studies of regulation of hormone production is now recognized. Results obtained from tissue culture allow more precise definition of the hormonal requirements of insect cells and tissues for growth and differentiation and might make possible the discovery of new growth regulators.
4295833|Human Namalwa cells were screened in serum-free medium and in 6-thioguanine, then fused with human lymphocytes from lymph nodes of lung adenocarcinoma cancer patients. Extensive testing using 14 lung cancer cell lines, 11 other cancer cell lines and 4 normal fibroblast lines identified monoclonal antibodies produced by 4 hybridoma clones that reacted specifically with lung adenocarcinoma cells. These monoclonal antibodies also reacted with lung adenocarcinoma tissues and not normal tissues or erythrocytes of any blood type. These hybridoma clones grew and stably secreted the antibodies in serum-free medium as well as in serum-containing medium.
4295800|Isolated adult rat pancreatic islets were dispersed into single cells and cultured free-floating for 3 to 4 d, during which time islet cells reaggregated spontaneously into spherical clusters or pseudoislets. The gross morphology of these tissues resembled nondissociated islets. Electron microscopy revealed well-preserved cell ultrastructure and intercellular membrane connections. Immunofluorescent localization of islet cell types showed that A cells tended to be peripherally distributed around a B cell core, with D cells scattered throughtout the aggregate mass. The dynamics of insulin release from pseudoislets were evaluated in vitro by perifusion techniques. Pseudoislets exhibited clear biphasic dose-dependent insulin responses to 30 min glucose stimulation over the range 5.5 to 30 mM. Repeated 2-min pulses with 22 mM glucose elicited brief monophasic spikes of insulin release of consistent magnitude. L-Arginine (5 to 20 mM) evoked biphasic insulin release but these responses were not dose-dependent. These data indicate that islet cells reaggregate into structures with close morphologic similarities to intact islets, and that pseudoislet B cells continue to secrete insulin in response to nutrient secretagogues, comparable to that seen with islets in vitro and in situ.
4295769|The addition of certain proteases to cultures of Friend virus-infected mouse erythroleukemia cells can induce up to 90% of the cells in culture to become hemoglobin-containing, as assessed by positive staining for benzidine (B
4295720|An atmosphere containing 10% CO
4296560|The validity of limiting dilution assays can be compromised or negated by the use of statistical methodology which does not consider all issues surrounding the biological process. This study critically evaluates statistical methods for estimating the mean frequency of responding cells in multiple sample limiting dilution assays. We show that methods that pool limiting dilution assay data, or samples, are unable to estimate the variance appropriately. In addition, we use Monte Carlo simulations to evaluate an unweighted mean of the maximum likelihood estimator, an unweighted mean based on the jackknife estimator, and a log transform of the maximum likelihood estimator. For small culture replicate size, the log transform outperforms both unweighted mean procedures. For moderate culture replicate size, the unweighted mean based on the jackknife produces the most acceptable results. This study also addresses the important issue of experimental design in multiple sample limiting dilution assays. In particular, we demonstrate that optimization of multiple sample limiting dilution assays is achieved by increasing the number of biological samples at the expense of repeat cultures.
4296371|A human tumor cell line designated SU.86 has been established from a moderate-to-poorly differentiated pancreatic carcinoma of ductal origin specifically for adoptive immunotherapy studies. This line was characterized as to its ability to be lysed in vitro by autologous and allogeneic lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) and natural killer cells and to grow in nude mice. SU.86 has been growing continuously in cell culture for more than 100 passages since 22 September 1986. Transplantation orthotopically and heterotopically into athymic Swiss nude mice showed that tumor take was 100% in the orthotopic position when young (4 to 6 wk old) mice were used and 0% when adult (8 wk old) mice were used (P = 0.004). In the heterotopic position (subcutaneous), tumor take was 100% in neonate (2 to 3 wk old) and young mice and 50% in adults. The rate of tumor growth was inversely correlated with age (P < 0.001). The histologic pattern is similar to that observed in most human pancreatic carcinomas with pseudoglandular structures and frequent mitotic figures. SU.86 has a doubling time of 77 h in vitro and produces carcinoembryonic antigen,
4296608|Heparin-binding growth factor 1 (HBGF-1), also known as acidic fibroblast growth factor, is a potent mitogen and angiogenic factor found in tissues such as brain, kidney and heart. The genomic and cDNA sequences indicate that HBGF-1 does not have a typical signal peptide sequence. HBGF-1 was shown to be localized to the extracellular matrix of cardiac myocytes, but the mechanism of secretion is not presently known. We have cloned the HBGF-1 cDNA which allowed us to directly test the biological activity, mechanism of secretion and transforming potential of the recombinant protein. A previous report showed that the truncated HBGF-1 confers partial transformed phenotype to the recipient fibroblasts. However, expression of full-length HBGF-1 has not been reported. The HBGF-1 coding sequence was cloned into the retroviral expression vector, SVX, and transfected into NIH/3T3 cells. Transfectants expressing full-length HBGF-1 protein at high levels form foci and grow to a higher cell density than the parental NIH/3T3 cells. Western blotting analysis showed that the recombinant HBGF-1 is a unique band of approximately 20 kDa and can be detected in the cell homogenate but not in the conditioned medium. NIH/3T3 cells were conferred anchorage independence when HBGF-1 was provided exogenously. We showed the transformed cells are capable of growing on soft agar even in the absence of exogenously-provided HBGF-1. Transfected cells expressing HBGF-1 also induced tumor formation when injected into nude mice. Thus, NIH/3T3 cells acquired a full spectrum of transformed phenotype when full length HBGF-1 was expressed at high levels.
4296286|A nutrient mist was used for in vitro culture of plant tissue in a novel bioreactor, wherein the tissues were grown on a biologically inert screen within a sterile chamber which allows excess media to drain away from the tissue. Plants tested included Daucus, Lycopersicon, Ficus, Cinchona, and Brassica. The latter 4 genera were fully regenerated within the bioreactor. Tissue inocula included callus, anthers, and shoot meristems. All plants grew at least as well in nutrient mists as in agar and always produced a greater quantity of shoots of a higher quality and often faster than agar cultures. Cost analysis estimates showed up to a 65% savings in production costs (labor and materials) could be realized using nutrient mist culture. Nutrient mist culture offers significant improvements in the micropropagation of plants.
4296941|We established basic conditions for transient gene expression and selection of antibiotics in the cultured cell line of silkworm, Bombyx mon, by use of the promoter of the heat shock protein (hsp70) gene of Drosophila melanogaster. The control promoter (hsp70) promoted the expression of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene ligated at the downstream, dependent on the orientation of the promoter in the silkworm cell. The cell line is able to be supplied for the promoter assay of the silkworm genes. The concentration for the drug selection was determined as 0.75 mg/ml on neomycin analog, G418 (geneticin).
4296496|Thymic epithelial cells were grown in defined medium without unknown serum factors and without concurrent growth of other cell types. Thymic tissue was obtained from 1- to 4-wk-old mice, disaggregated, and incubated in a mixture of collagenase-dispase-DNAse. The resulting organoids were seeded on collagen-coated flasks. The culture medium consisted of DME-F12 with low or high concentration of Ca
4296955| Because the metabolic environment can alter gene expression in cultured cells, we examined the effects of change of medium on the levels of several cytochrome P450 mRNAs in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes maintained on Matrigel. The amounts of P450 1A2, 2B1/2, or 3A1 mRNA were unaffected by changing the medium. In contrast, P450 1A1 mRNA levels were increased 1 to 2 h after media change, reached maximum levels by 6 h, and declined to baseline by 24 h. Supplementing day-old media with components of the medium revealed that only addition of amino acids resulted in 1A1 mRNA induction. From the results of direct additions and omissions, we showed that tryptophan, but not histidine, was largely responsible for the 1A1 mRNA induction. Moreover, mild photoactivation of the tryptophan resulted in a substantially increased magnitude of 1A1 mRNA induction. The time course for 1A1 mRNA induction by treatment with photoactivated tryptophan was identical to that observed after medium change. Treatment of hepatocyte cultures with -naphthoflavone, which is metabolized by 1A1, also resulted in a transient 1A1 mRNA induction time-course profile over a 24-h period, whereas treatment with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, which is relatively stable to metabolic transformation, produced sustained elevations of 1A1 mRNA, suggesting that the transient response to tryptophan also may involve metabolism of the inducer. Our results extend previous data showing that oxidized products of tryptophan induce 1A1, and suggest that the transient nature of the induction may be due to elimination of the activated tryptophan molecule. 
4295818|FRTL-5 cells, a diploid line of differentiated rat thyroid epithelial cells, have been grown as multicellular spheroids in spinner culture. Spheroids were initiated by seeding FRTL-5 cells either into Lab-Tek dishes or culture flasks with a 0.5% agar base. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH, >1.0 mU/ml) was required for initial cell aggregation and spheroid growth. After 1 wk cellular aggregates were transferred to suspension culture in spinner flasks. As with FRTL-5 monolayer cultures, continued spheroid growth required the addition of TSH to the culture medium. The most unique characteristic of the FRTL-5 spheroids was the development of central lumina similar to thyroid follicles in vivo. Follicular structures were absent from spheroids not stimulated with TSH. In the presence of TSH epithelial cells seem metabolically active with morphological evidence of biosynthesis of thyroglobulin-like material and basal laminar-like components. In contrast, all evidence of cellular metabolic activity is absent from cells in spheroids maintained in the absence of TSH. Thus, nontransformed FRTL-5 cells grown as three-dimensional multicellular spheroids responded to hormonal manipulation in a manner comparable to follicular epithelial cells in vivo. This spheroid model might therefore prove to be a very effective tool for investigating aspects of thyroid physiology and pathology in vitro.
4296778|Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are currently used in the treatment of mental depression and nocturnal enuresis. Clinically, these drugs are useful; however, cardiotoxicity can occur even with therapeutic dosages. For example, TCAs are known to alter myocardial function, induce arrhythmias, and produce heart block in individuals with a normal cardiovascular history. The present study was undertaken to establish a culture system of spontaneously contracting adult primary myocardial cells for toxicologic testing and to examine their contractility, morphology, and lactate dehydrogenase release (LDH) after treatment with one of the most cardiotoxic TCAs, amitriptyline. Primary myocardial cell cultures were obtained from approximately 60- to 90-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats. After the cells had been grown in culture for 11 days, they were treated with amitriptyline (1  10
4296476|Many epithelial tissues are characterized by the presence of basal cells which serve the dual roles of self-renewal and of progression through terminal differentiation, to a functional state. Such tissues, when grown in vitro as primary explants, exhibit a characteristic pattern of outgrowth and development which includes both renewal and efforts toward normal differentiation. The degree of differentiation achieved depends upon conditions of culture and may be modulated in a variety of ways. The human prostate constitutes such a system and offers numerous possibilities for investigating basic control mechanisms in growth and development. Information on a variety of epithelial tissues is reviewed and experimental results using human prostate tissue are presented.
4296688|Culture medium supplementation with vertebrate serum results in the selection of fibroblastoid insect cell lines and a general decline during continuous subculturing of both morphologic and functional differentiation of the surviving cells. Essential lipid mixtures can substitute for vertebrate serum in the culture of insect and some vertebrate cells, tissues, parasites, and pathogens. The provision of sterols and essential (with nonessential) polyunsaturated fatty acids as phospholipids in oxidation-protected peptoliposomes or proteoliposomes allows cells in culture to duplicate in vivo specific membranes more accurately. Such lipid-corrected membranes allow cultured cells to communicate with neighboring cells through the extracellular matrix, effectively transmit hormonal signals directly and via receptor control, and respond with various tissue-specific functions and differentiation states as directed.
4296263|Primary cell cultures from twitcher (galactocerebrosidase deficient) mice were made by enzymatic dispersion and explantation of skin obtained from 3-d-old littermates of a twi+/twi x twi+/twi mating. Galactocerebrosidase activity remained deficient for two twitcher cell lines, TM-1 and TM-2, and both lines demonstrated an initial period of growth decline, followed by accelerated growth. The TM-2 line has been subcultured for more than 3.5 yr, has a modal chromosome number of 63, a doubling time of approximately 16 h, and has remained galactocerebrosidase deficient throughout its life span. These data indicate this to be an established twitcher cell line that can be continuously maintained in culture as a transformed galactocerebrosidase-deficient mouse cell line. This established line was rendered 6-thioguanine resistant so that the cells could be fused with control human fibroblasts and selected for hybrid lines in hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine medium. Also, the established twitcher cells were crossed with neomycin-resistant control human fibroblasts and selected in G418 medium. Several of the hybrid lines from both crosses had higher than deficient levels of galactocerebrosidase activity initially, followed by a decrease to twitcher levels during subculture, whereas other lines retained high levels of activity. These results indicate that twitcher-human somatic cell hybrids will express galactocerebrosidase activity and thus may be useful for determining the human chromosome or chromosomes associated with this expression.
4296793| Using the polymorphic DNA probes, ChdTC-15, ChdTC-114, pYNH24, and TM-18, a DNA profiling system was developed that verified identities of individual cultured cell lines collected in the Japanese cell banks, JCRB, RCB, and IFO. These highly polymorphic DNA probes include both VNTR (Variable Number of Tandem Repeats) sequences and substantial lengths of unique regions. In the mixed probe system, several distinct bands from four to eight can be used for cell line identification. These bands were widely spread in a range of molecular sizes, and were stable and reproducible under stringent conditions of Southern blot hybridization. Because the DNA profile was specific for each individual human cell line, it is useful not only to authenticate many existing cultured cell lines but also to monitor their identity during propagation in a laboratory, and to confirm newly established lines as unique. 
4295875|Proliferation of adult human prostatic epithelial cells in serum-free medium occurs upon the addition of cholera toxin, epidermal growth factor, pituitary extract, and hydrocortisone to basal medium PFMR-4A. Insulin and selenium enhance proliferation and permit growth at lower cell densities. Reducing the level of calcium in the medium dramatically alters morphology and also seems to increase proliferation. Mortal strains of cells derived from normal central or peripheral zone, benign hyperplasia, or cancer respond similarly to growth factors and calcium, but two populations of cancer cells which have been long-lived and may be immortal lines behave differently. GKC-CA cells require serum proteins or high levels of pituitary extract for optimal growth, and neither GKC-CA cells or cells of another cancer line, WB-CA, proliferate well in medium containing reduced levels of calcium. These observations may, however, be a reflection of attachment phenomena rather than of growth responses per se. Growth of cells in serum-free medium has allowed definitive studies of the effects of androgens, and regardless of cell type no response to androgens of prostate epithelial cells under any experimental conditions has been seen.
4296402|Large numbers of kidney epithelial cells were cultured successfully from isolated dog proximal tubule segments. Cells in primary culture and in first passage retained the cystine-dibasic amino acid co-transporter system which is found in vivo and in freshly isolated proximal tubule segments. In contrast to other cultured cells, the cystine-glutamate anti-porter was absent in primary cultures. However, this anti-porter system seemed to be developing in cells in first passage. The intracellular ratio of cysteine:reduced glutathione (CSH:GSH) was maintained at 1:36 in both primary cultures and in low passage cells. Incubation of cells in primary culture for 5 min at
4296176|Shoot tip cultures from 2- to 3-d-old seedlings of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench cv. IS3620C develop highly embryogenic callus from which plants can be regenerated when transferred to plant growth regulator-free medium. Isolated shoot tips were cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 2.5 mg/liter 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid and 0.05 mg/liter kinetin. Purple pigmentation characteristic of sorghum cultures on growth regulator-free medium is virtually eliminated with the shoot tip culture. Embryogenic callus is white and hard with an undulating appearance but can be separated into multiple bipolar structures by application of gentle pressure. The well-developed embryos have a cup-shaped scutellum. These germinate like zygotic embryos and develop root-shoot axis. Lack of vascular connections to the parent tissue and the synchronous development of the plumule and radicle suggest that these embryos may be of unicellular origin. In contrast, when the entire seedling serves as the explant, all meristematic centers in the shoot, including the coleoptile sheath close to the apical meristem respond to plant growth regulators in the medium by callus formation. Upon subsequent reculture onto growth regulator-free medium several modes of development occur. The differential response of these tissues to identical culture conditions indicate the presence of different population of cells that respond differently to exogenous plant growth regulators.
4296860|The development of pulmonary hypertension in a wide variety of human disease states and experimental animal models characterized by chronic alveolar hypoxia is mediated by two pathologic vascular processes, a) vasoconstriction and b) vasoconstruction (structural remodeling). The anatomic changes seen within the pulmonary circulation include a) increased deposition of collagen and elastin in the adventitial layer and b) aberrant pulmonary vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and maturation in the medial segments. Despite the demonstrated ability of pharmacologic manipulation in the experimental animal to ameliorate both the structural and hemodynamic changes, the actual etiologic mechanisms are only beginning to be explored. Using the cell culture technique of co-cultivation, we have investigated the potential role of bovine pulmonary arterial endothelial cell-derived factors in mediating abnormal bovine smooth muscle cell growth under conditions of reduced oxygen tension. We have demonstrated that these cultured endothelial cells exposed in vitro to reduced levels of atmospheric oxygen concentrations of 5.0% and 2.5% O
4296143|The objective of this study was to establish a method by which trophectodermal cells originating from individual preimplantation bovine embryos could be perpetuated in monolayer culture. A single, Day-11 bovine embryo collected nonsurgically from a mixed-breed beef cow was cultured in Ham's F10 medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum, sodium pyruvate, insulin, and epidermal growth factor. After 13 d in culture the embryo had adhered to the surface of the plastic culture vessel and a monolayer covering
4296304|We have developed a serum-free medium for clonal growth of normal human muscle satellite cells (HMSC). It consists of an optimized nutrient medium, MCDB 120, plus a serum-free supplement, designated SF, that contains epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin, dexamethasone, bovine serum albumin, and fetuin. Fibroblast growth factor was needed with dialyzed fetal bovine serum (dFBS) as the only other supplement, but in media containing SF, it was only slightly beneficial, and was omitted from the final medium without significant loss. Clonal growth of HMSC in MCDB 120 plus SF is as good as with 15% serum and 0.5% chicken embryo or bovine pituitary extract. However, growth is further improved by use of a doubly-supplemented (DS) medium containing both SF and 5% dFBS. Clonal growth of HMSC in the DS medium far exceeds that in previous media with any amount of serum, and monolayer growth is at least equal to that in conventional media with higher levels of serum. Cells grown in these media exhibit little differentiation, even when grown to high densities. However, they retain the capacity for extensive fusion and synthesis of increased creatine kinase when transferred to a serum-free differentiation-promoting medium, such as Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium plus insulin. All experiments were done with clonal cultures of HMSC to insure that observed growth responses were always those of muscle cells.
4295865|Rabbit aortic smooth muscle cells were prepared by enzymatic digestion of the aortic smooth muscle layer. The cells were subcultured up to Passage 22 starting from a cryogenically preserved stock (approximately
4296933|The growth and differentiation of normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC) were studied after propagation of serial cultures from breast tissue biopsies from 42 mammoplasty patients. Cells were grown for up to 7 mo. in low calcium medium. HMEC cultures displayed heterogeneous growth patterns, according to the average doubling time of
4296909|A method for the cultivation of organ explants from abdominal mammary glands of virgin mice has been established. In a serum-free medium containing aldosterone, prolactin, insulin, and cortisol (APIH medium) mammary gland development was documented by lobuloalveolar morphogenesis. The hormonal requirements for in vitro expression of beta-casein and of the mammary-derived growth inhibitor (MDGI) were tested. To this end, a full length cDNA coding for mouse MDGI was prepared displaying strong homologies to a mouse heart fatty acid binding protein, which is also expressed in the mammary gland. MDGI and beta-casein transcripts were found to be absent in the mammary tissue from primed virgin mice, and were induced upon culture of mammary explants in the APIH medium. An immunohistochemical analysis with specific antibodies against MDGI and casein revealed a different pattern of expression for the two proteins. In the APIH medium, MDGI was expressed mainly in differentiating alveolar cells of the lobuloalveolar structures, whereas beta-casein was present in both ductules and alveoli. The relationship between functional differentiation and MDGI expression was further studied in explants from glands of late-pregnant mice. At this stage of development, MDGI is found both in ducts and in alveoli. If explants were cultured with epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin, the lobuloalveolar structure was still present, whereas MDGI disappeared. Reinduction of MDGI expression was achieved by subsequent PIH treatment. Independent on developmental stage, EGF strongly inhibits MDGI mRNA expression. It is concluded that MDGI-expression is associated with functional differentiation in the normal gland.
4296414|Thecal cells isolated from bovine ovarian follicles were cultured with a serum-free basal medium or a serum-free complete medium in the presence or absence of collagen gel matrix, and their cellular proliferation and steroidogenesis were compared with those of cells cultured with a serum-containing medium. The cells cultured with the serum-free basal medium produced larger amounts of progesterone, androstenedione, and estradiol than the cells cultured with the serum-containing medium, but no appreciable cell proliferation was observed in the serum-free medium. Response of thecal cells to 8 bromo-cAMP, a steroidogenic agent, varied according to the type of steroid production examined and the type of culture medium used. In a cultivation period of 4 d, progesterone production was stimulated about five-fold by 8 bromo-cAMP in the serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix and in the serum-free basal medium without collagen matrix, whereas androstenedione production was stimulated about three- to fourfold in the serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix and in the serum-free basal medium with or without collagen matrix. Estradiol production, however, was significantly suppressed by 8 bromo-cAMP in the serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix and also in the serum-containing medium. Thus, among the conditions examined, the most suitable primary culture media for steroidogenesis of thecal cells were the serum-free media, especially serum-free complete medium on collagen gel matrix.
4296086|Tissue culture methods were developed for reproducible induction and maintenance of embryogenic (E) callus established from developmentally mature embryo explants of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) and grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Embryogenic callus was obtained by culturing seeds and mature embryos of wheat on Linsmaier and Skoog's (LS) medium containing 5 or 2 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), respectively, and for sorghum mature embryos on LS medium containing 2 mg/1 2,4-D plus 0.5 mg/liter kinetin. Plant regeneration from E callus was achieved for several months and quantified on a fresh-weight basis of E callus. Phenotypically normal plants were regenerated from E callus cultured on LS medium supplemented with 0.1 mg/liter IAA plus 0.5 mg/liter benzyladenine (BA) for wheat and 1.0 mg/liter IAA plus 0.5 mg/1 BA for sorghum.
20171563|Medial sesamoid bones from the metacarpophalangeal joints of calves were used for prolonged culture of anatomically intact articular cartilage on its natural bone support. The cartilage remained viable during culture, without signs of degeneration. After 1 wk of culture the cartilage showed an increased proteoglycan synthesis, and some minor changes in the composition of newly synthesized proteoglycans were observed. In the next 7 wk all studied parameters remained constant, except for the rate of proteoglycan synthesis, which declined between 4 and 8 wk to values just below those measured at the start of culture. Despite the fact that newly synthesized proteoglycans showed some altered biochemical properties, the composition of the total pool of proteoglycans did not change during 8 wk of culture. The significance of this phenomenon is discussed. This new in vitro model of intact articular cartilage offers a promising alternative to in vivo studies because in contrast to other in vitro models no surgical injury of the cartilage is introduced.
4296630|An effect of the hormone,
4295838|A completely defined medium (EHM-1), which reflects the amino acid composition of fetal rat serum and contains albumin as the sole proteinaceous compound, allows the accumulation of carbamoylphosphate synthetase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the presence of dexamethasone, dibutyryl cyclic AMP, and triiodothyronine to approximately twice the level attained in a standard culture medium (RPMI 1640) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (and hormones). Using the EHM-1 medium we could show that the capacity of hepatocytes to synthesize phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the presence of hormones is manifest as soon as the cells differentiate from the embryonic foregut (embryonic Day 11). Furthermore we could show that embryonic hepatocytes can become binuclear or polyploid when cultured in the presence of thyroid hormone.
20171505| A primary rabbit kidney epithelial cell culture system has been developed which retains differentiated functions of the renal proximal tubule. In addition, the cells have a distinctive metabolism and spectrum of hormone responses. The primary cells were observed to retain in vitro a Na-dependent sugar transport system (distinctive of the proximal segment of the nephron) and a Na-dependent phosphate transport system. Both of these transport processes are localized on the apical membrane of proximal tubule cells in vivo. In addition, probenicid-sensitive p-aminohippurate (PAH) uptake was observed in basolateral membranes of the primary tubule cells, and the PAH uptake by these vesicles occurred at a rate that was very similar to that observed with membranes derived from the original tissue. Several other characteristics of the primary cells were examined, including hormone-sensitive cyclic AMP production and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) activity. Like the cells in vivo, the primary proximal tubule cells were observed to produce significant cyclic AMP in response to parathyroid hormone, but not in response to arginine vasopressin or salmon calcitonin. Significant PEPCK activity was observed in the particulate fraction derived from a homogenate of primary rabbit kidney proximal tubule cells. 
20171393| The human hepatoblastoma line Hep G2 modulates gene expression in vitro in response to increasing culture density. Two stages of growth can be defined. At low density (&lt;200,000 cells/cm) the cultures have a doubling time of 24 h and exhibit several characteristics of fetal liver cells, including increased synthesis of alphafetoprotein, reduced synthesis of albumin, a predominance of the fetal isoenzymes of both aldolase and pyruvate kinase and a reduced level of the cell surface receptor for asialoglycoproteins. Confluent, high density cultures of Hep G2 (&gt;1 10 cells/cm) have a doubling time of 193 h, a four fold higher level of albumin production, increased levels of the adult isoenzymes of aldolase and pyruvate kinase and increased asialoglycoprotein receptor. The alteration in albumin and alphafetoprotein synthesis was reflected by changes in the messenger RNA levels and the relative transcription of these two genes. Hep G2 provides a cell culture model for the modulation of the liver phenotype which occurs during fetal/adult development or during liver regeneration. 
4295926|Trout liver was disaggregated by perfusion with collagenase. Highly purified populations of parenchymal cells were obtained, yielding up to
4295878|Stem cells of the embryonal carcinoma cell line called H6 can be induced to differentiate to endoderm-like cells by retinoic acid (
4296950|Tracheal epithelial cells were grown on Nuclepore filters coated with human placental collagen. When grown immersed in medium containing fetal bovine serum, cells displayed an undifferentiated ultrastructure (no cilia and a cell height of
4296912|We have reported the establishment of two interleukin (IL)-2-dependent human leukemic cell lines (TALL-103/2
4296311|Vascular endothelial cells modulate their structure and functions in response to changes in hemodynamic forces such as fluid shear stress. We have studied how endothelial cells perceive the shearing force generated by blood flow and the substance(s) that may mediate such a response. We identify cytoplasmic-free calcium ion (Ca
4296581|Methods for the isolation and in vitro culture of larval and adult Xenopus laevis epidermal cells have been developed. Epidermal cells of stage 52-54 tadpoles and adult epidermal cells were enzymatically dissociated and purified (98%) by Percoll-density centrifugation and unit-gravity sedimentation. Both cell types attached on fibronectin-coated dishes and proliferated for 1 wk when the proper medium was used. There were four significant differences between larval and adult cells: a) Adult cells had a greater buoyant density than larval cells. b) Keratin synthesis patterns were markedly different. c) A combination of medium F12 and Eagle's minimum essential medium was optimal for growth of larval cells whereas MCDB151 medium was optimal for adult cells. d) Adult cells needed fetal bovine serum (>5%) whereas larval cells grew without fetal bovine serum. In contrast to these differences, larval and adult cells had two similar properties: a) Insulin had a potent effect on the growth of both cells, and b) The optimal Ca
20171425|Supplementation of Ham's F12 culture medium with essential amino acids (EAA) up to the rat plasma levels increased the rates of synthesis of albumin and transferrin by cultured rat hepatocytes by 1.3 and 1.7, respectively. Fifty percent of this increase could be attributed to three of the EAA: the branched-chain amino acids (BCAA: Leu Ile and Val). Non-branched-chain essential amino acids (non-BC-EAA) stimulated only 25% of the increase produced by the whole EAA mixture. When each EAA was tested individually, none of them caused an appreciable increase in albumin and transferrin in culture medium. When the concentrations of all EAA were raised to rat postprandial portal levels, albumin and transferrin synthesis rates reached a maximum, increasing by 3.2 and 3.5, respectively. Supplementation with BCAA at postprandial portal concentrations increased albumin and transferrin synthesis rates by 2.2 and 2.0, respectively, and had no noteworthy effect on the synthesis of cellular proteins. Non-BC-EAA at their postprandial portal concentrations increased albumin and transferrin synthesis rates by 1.7 and 1.9, respectively. Supplementation with alanine to reach a nitrogen content equal to that of the modified EAA-enriched medium had no stimulatory effect. Our results show that EAA have a specific effect on the synthesis of plasma proteins by cultured hepatocytes, and that BCAA at physiologic concentrations account for the major part of this stimulatory effect. Consequently, EAA and particularly BCAA concentration should be elevated in serum-free nutrient media to sustain maximum plasma protein synthesis.
4296820|Hepatocytes isolated from rats bearing line A of Walker 256 carcinoma (WA) were used to study the turnover of total liver protein and the synthesis of albumin in comparison with ad libitum (AL) and pair-fed (PF) healthy controls. The rates of total protein synthesis by hepatocytes of WA animals were 40 and 90% higher than in AL and PF controls, respectively. The degradation of fast-turnover proteins was not affected by nutrition or by the tumor, whereas the degradation of slow-turnover proteins was slightly but significantly increased-about 24% higher in hepatocytes from WA rats than in PF controls. The combination of the two processes, synthesis and degradation, was in favor of an increased synthesis which explains the increase in liver protein content observed in vivo in WA rats. Dietary restriction did not affect the synthesis and secretion of albumin, whereas the tumor significantly reduced its synthesis by about 30%. The plasma concentration of albumin in WA rats dropped by about the same percentage compared with AL and PF animals.
4296025|Microvascular cells are most vulnerable to direct oxygen damage. Using an in vitro model system we have investigated the effect of elevated oxygen on the proliferation, morphology, and integrity of microvascular endothelial cells (EC) and pericytes. Cultivation of these cells at oxygen concentrations of 40% for 1 wk resulted in the inhibition of EC proliferation but had no effect on the growth of the pericytes. Similarly, hyperoxia induced a dramatic change in the shape of the EC, increasing their spread area by close to six-fold. Under the same conditions, the spread area of the pericytes was unaffected. To understand the effect of the hyperoxic treatment on the cells, the integrity of various membrane systems was assessed.
20171398| A mitogenic factor which promotes quail myoblast proliferation has been purified some 10-fold from chick embryo extract by a combination of cation-exchange chromatography and heparin-affinity chromatography. The factor is eluted from heparin-Sepharose with 2 M NaCl and is a single-chain polypeptide with an apparent molecular weight of 15 000 to 17 000. It is active at subnanogram level in triggering the proliferation and thereby delaying temporarily fusion of myoblasts. It also stimulates the proliferation of quail fibroblasts in a similar effective concentration range. For both myoblasts and fibroblasts the dose-response to the factor is quantitatively and qualitatively comparable with that of bovine pituitary fibroblast growth factor. These observations strongly suggest that the factor very probably corresponds to chicken fibroblast growth factor or to a closely related molecule(s) and that it is possibly involved in the regulation of myogenesis. 
4296455| Embryogenic callus induced from mature caryopses of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) were placed in liquid half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium and supplemented with 6.0 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D), 3 g/l (w/v) casein hydrolysate (CH), and B5 vitamins, to initiate fast-growing highly embryogenic cell suspension cultures. Newly initiated suspension cultures contained a high level of large non-embryogenic cells (NE) with relatively few embryogenic (E) cells. Cell types were separated by discontinuous Percoll gradients or by filtering the newly initiated cultures through 31-m nylon mesh. The growth conditions of the E cells were optimized by testing various media components including 2,4-D and sucrose, and subculture dilution ratio. Optimal shoot formation occurred after pretreatment of the embryogenic cells on solidified callus maintenance medium supplemented with 60 mg/l cefotaxime for 4 weeks prior to transfer to regeneration medium. Regeneration media consisted of half-strength MS basal medium supplemented with B5 vitamins, 0.5 mg/l fluridone, and 0.5 mg/l BA. Most plants regenerated were albino with only a few green plants. 
20171458|A human cholangiocellular carcinoma cell line, HuCC-T1, was established in vitro from the malignant cells of ascites of a 56-yr-old patient. Histologic findings of the primary liver tumor revealed a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Tumor cells from the ascites have been cultured with RPMI 1640 medium containing 0.2% lactalbumin hydrolysate and the cultured cells grew as monolayers with a population doubling time of 74 h during exponential growth at Passage 25. They had an epithelial-like morphology and were positive for mucine staining. Ultrastructural studies revealed the presence of microvilli on the cell surface and poorly developed organelles in the cytoplasm. The HuCC-T1 cell was tumorigenic in nude mice. The number of chromosomes in HuCC-T1 ranged from 61 to 80. These human cholangiocellular carcinoma cells in serum-free medium secreted several tumor markers, including carbohydrate antigen 19/9, carbohydrate antigen 125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and tissue polypeptide antigen. The carbohydrate antigen 19/9 secretion level of HuCC-T1 cells cultured in RPMI 1640 medium with 1% fetal bovine serum was sixfold higher than that with 0.2% lactalbumin hydrolysate. These findings suggest that HuCC-T1 will provide useful information to clarify the mechanism of tumor marker secretion and tumor cell growth in the human cholangiocellular carcinoma.
4296978| The human carcinoma line RPMI 2650 produces autocrine factors; they are detected by the ability of RPMI 2650 conditioned medium (CM) to stimulate growth in soft agar of RPMI 2650 cells plated at low density. The autocrine activity in crude CM can be fractionated by ultrafiltration into a lower molecular weight (MW) fraction (R1-30), which concentrates molecules in the 1000-30000 Da range; and a higher MW fraction (R30) with molecules greater than 30000 Da in a more concentrated form. R1-30 is labile to acid, base, and heat treatment, whereas R30 is stable to (and sometimes activated by) these treatments. Boiling of R30, however, renders it labile to acid, base, and trypsin treatments. CM can be separated into a weakly heparin-binding fraction (with stability properties similar, but not identical, to R1-30), and a non-heparin binding fraction (with stability properties similar to R30). RPMI 2650 cells secrete transforming growth factor (TGF)- and TGF-like molecules, but the R1-30 fraction can be distinguished from these TGFs, and from most other known growth factors, by its unusual combination of acid lability and weak affinity for heparin. Since the R30/non-heparin binding fraction is rendered labile by boiling or acid treatment, it may represent a bound or conformationally stable form of a growth factor. 
4296123|Human colonic adenocarcinoma cells have been successfully grown on polystyrene microcarriers by modifying the culture conditions used in monolayer culture. The method can be divided into two culture phases: a) a phase of spreading, wherein cells were seeded in presence of serum-supplemented medium; b) a phase of active growth wherein spread cells on the beads were allowed to grow in a serum-free medium. Under these conditions, optimal spreading and growth of HT 29 and HRT 18 cells on the microcarriers were obtained. A differential propagation was observed between HT 29-D4 and HT 29-D9 cells (both clonal populations derived from HT 29 cells) on the microcarriers that is tentatively related to the discrepancy observed in the spreading efficiency of these clonal cells on serum-coated culture flasks. An index of spreading efficiency (IS index) has been defined to quantify the efficiency of spreading of each cell line on microcarriers. These data gave the opportunity to develop serum-free, scale-up methods to culture cells like HT 29 which release potentially useful products.
20171440|During methotrexate-induced differentiation of cultured human choriocarcinoma (BeWo) cells, proliferation is inhibited, morphologic and biochemical changes occur, and giant, often multinucleated, cells form. We have used the increase in cell volume as a marker of the mature syncytiotrophoblastlike phenotype. Uninduced and differentiated BeWo cells are not spherical, and theoretical considerations suggested that deviations in shape could result in significant errors in Coulter volume. To determine if the values obtained by electrical pulse sizing reflected the actual mass of BeWo cells, we have evaluated the relationship between Coulter volumes and intracellular water volumes obtained using a shape-independent estimate for eight cell types. A close correlation (r = 0.97) was found, indicating that cell volume changes in populations of irregularly shaped cells can be accurately measured using a Coulter instrument.
4296562|To better understand possible autocrine or paracrine mechanisms involved in adipose tissue development, we have studied the biosynthesis of insulinlike growth factor I (IGF-I) and prostaglandin
4295961|The characteristics of hormone-dependent rat mammary tumors in response to serum and hormones were determined in collagen gel matrix culture. Epithelial cells from 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary adenocarcinomas were embedded in collagen gel and the effect of estrogen, progesterone, prolactin, insulin, and serum was tested. The total cell number and [
4296720|Culture medium conditioned with concanavalin A-stimulated mononuclear leukocytes was tested for its ability to stimulate in vitro proliferation of bovine placental cells. The crude preparation of cytokines caused a dose-dependent increase in [
4296149|A cotton cell suspension culture has been developed that provides unique opportunities for plant biologists to investigate early developmental events regulating cotton fiber properties, plant cell elongation, and cell wall biogenesis. The suspension culture was derived from cells of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) ovule callus. These cells undergo the stages of fiber development previously described for in vivo fiber development. Fibers range in length up to 11 mm and have secondary walls.
4296172|The cell growth and monoclonal antibody production characteristics of two rat x mouse heterohybridoma cell lines, designated 187.1 and M1/9.3, were investigated using a biocompatible microencapsulation technology. Both cell lines, derived from the fusion of immunized rat spleen cells with either the NS1 or X63Ag8.653 myeloma cell lines, were found to reach a maximum intracapsular cell density of 1.3 to
20171561|Cell motility (i.e., movement) is an essential component of normal development, inflammation, tissue repair, angiogenesis, and tumor invasion. Various molecules can affect the motility and positioning of mammalian cells, including peptide growth factors, (e.g., EGF, PDGF, TGF-beta), substrate-adhesion molecules (e.g., fibronectin, laminin), cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), and metalloproteinases. Recent studies have demonstrated a group of motility-stimulating proteins which do not appear to fit into any of the above categories. Examples include: 1) scatter factor (SF), a mesenchymal cell-derived protein which causes contiguous sheets of epithelium to separate into individual cells and stimulates the migration of epithelial as well as vascular endothelial cells; 2) autocrine motility factor (AMF), a tumor cell-derived protein which stimulates migration of the producer cells; and 3) migration-stimulating factor (MSF), a protein produced by fetal and cancer patient fibroblasts which stimulates penetration of three-dimensional collagen gels by non-producing adult fibroblasts. SF, AMF, and MSF are soluble and heat labile proteins with Mr of 77, 55, and 70 kd by SDS-PAGE, respectively, and may be members of a new class of cell-specific regulators of motility. Their physiologic functions have not been established, but available data suggest that they may be involved in fetal development and/or tissue repair.
4296010| Somatic embryos of orchardgrass became quiescent when desiccated to 13% water. Twelve percent germinated after 21 d of desiccated storage at 23 C and 4% developed into green plants. During desiccation, embryos decreased in size, became yellowish and brittle, and their outer walls collapsed. Within 15 min after imbibition, they rapidly enlarged and were indistinguishable from nondesiccated embryos. These results suggest that somatic embryos may be engineered to function as synthetic seeds for mass propagation. 
4295863|A method is described for culturing human mammary epithelial cells in primary culture and allowing more than 50 generations and a 1000-fold increase from starting inocula without need of enzymatic transfers. Organoids dissociated from breast tissue are plated in medium containing
4296459| An epithelial cell line (RC-4B/C) was established from a pituitary adenoma obtained from a 3-yr-old (ACI/fMai x F344/fMai)Fl male rat. Before Year 5 in vitro, RC-4B/C cells could not be viably recovered from cryogenic storage. Recovery of viable cells from cryogenic storage in Year 5 was associated with a more transformed phenotype, including the appearance of endogenous G-type rat retroviral particles. The ultra structural appearance of the cells was similar to that of differentiated anterior pituitary cells; the cultured cells contained numerous, electron dense, secretory granules, Golgi complexes, and extended arrays of rough endoplasmic reticulum. Immunocytochemical study showed that all cell types present in the rat anterior pituitary gland were present in the cell line. The percentage of luteinizing hormone beta (LH) cells in the cell line was higher (19.9%) and that of growth hormone cells was lower (12.2%) than in normal male rat pituitary, whereas the cell line contained a comparable percentage of follicle stimulating hormone beta (FSH), prolactin (PRL), ACTH, and thyrotropin beta cells. Radioimmunoassay data demonstrated the PRL content of the cells was comparable to that of normal male rat pituitary gland, whereas the content of LH and FSH was 70- and 800-fold lower, respectively. Assay of specific receptor sites for gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) using Scatchard plots of the data established the RC-4B/C cells contained GnRH receptor sites of the same affinity as in the pituitary gland, but of twofold lower capacity. These data suggest the RC-4B/C cell line warrants further study as a model for the induction and maintenance of the gonadotropic function of the pituitary gland. 
4296001|Epithelial cells from the normal mouse thymus were successfully cultivated on tissue culture plastic when plated with lethally irradiated support cells of the LA7 rat mammary tumor line. As the irradiated LA7 cells slowly decreased in number the thymus cells proliferated concomitantly to form a confluent monolayer. The cells now in culture have been subcultured 8 times, have doubled in number at least 30 times, and are still proliferating vigorously. The culture technique also supported clonal growth from a single cell, and nine clones have been isolated. The colony-forming efficiency of thymic cells plated at low concentrations was about 8%. These cultures were never overgrown by fibroblasts. The thymus cells were characterized as epithelial by the presence of cytoplasmic keratin and numerous desmosomes and tonofilaments. They were shown to be mouse cells by immunocytochemistry with species specific antibodies, by isoenzyme analysis, and by karyology. The cells stained when reacted with antibodies to tubulin, vimentin, and actin, but not with antibodies to Thy-1.2, Lyt-1, Lyt-2, Ia, or H-2 proteins. More than 85% of the cells had a normal mouse diploid chromosome number of 40. This culture technique opens the way for future studies of T-cell education with homogeneous thymic epithelial cell populations both in vitro and after reimplantation into genetically defined strains of mice.
4296905|Scleral fibroblasts, perichondrial cells of the scierai layer of the 12-day chick embryo, always manifest a fibroblastic morphology in monolayer culture. In soft-agar culture, these cells produce two types of colonies. One type of colony, F-type, consists of adherent fibroblastic cells, and the other, C-type, is composed of scattered round chondrocytic cells. Cells of the C-type colony are surrounded by a halo of extracellular matrix, positive with Alcian blue and with an antibody to cartilage-specific proteoglycan. When a single fibroblast clone in monolayer, derived from a single scierai fibroblast, is subcultured into soft agar, the cells give rise to both C-type and F-type colonies. Further, it was found that cells constituting F-type colonies eventually separate and become spherical, and the F-type colony converts to a C-type colony (C-type conversion). In regard to the C-type convertibility, the primary fibroblast clones were divided into four categories, early time differentiating, middle-time differentiating, late-time differentiating and nondifferentiating. This suggests that the scierai perichondrial layer of the 12-day chick embryo is composed of a variety of cells with different chondrogenic potentialities maintained in each individual cell.
4296395|The use of somatic embryos from cell culture systems in the clonal propagation of plants would be greatly facilitated if the somatic embryos could be dried and stored in a dormant state similar to true seeds. A cell culture system was developed for alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) line RL34 which gave high yields of somatic embryos in an approximately synchronized pattern. These somatic embryos were treated with abscisic acid (ABA) at the cotyledonary stage of development to induce desiccation tolerance. With no visual preselection, approximately 60% of the dried embryos converted into plants upon reimbibition. When high quality embryos were selected prior to drying, 90 to 100% conversion rates were observed. The timing of the application of ABA in terms of embryo development was critical with an optimum being at cotyledonary stage spanning approximately 4 days; thus, synchronized embryo development is required for optimal expression in bulk samples. The vigor of the seedlings from dried somatic embryos was greater than those from embryos which had not been dried, but remained substantially lower than those from true seeds.
4296545|We describe a simple technique for maintaining highly contractile long-term chicken myogenic cultures on Matrigel, a gel composed of basement membrane components extracted from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm mouse tumor. Cultures grown on Matrigel consist of three-dimensional multilayers of cylindrical, contracting myotubes which endure for at least 60 d without myotube detachment. A Matrigel substrate increases the initial plating efficiency but does not effect cell proliferation. Large-scale differentiation in cultures maintained on Matrigel is delayed by 1 to 2 d, compared to cultures grown on gelatin-coated dishes. Long-term maintenance on Matrigel also results in increased expression of the neonatal and adult fast myosin heavy chain isoforms. Culturing of cells on a Matrigel substrate could thus facilitate the study of later events of in vitro myogenesis.
4296350|Pituitary tumoral tissue from 20 acromegalic patients was cultured for up to 120 d in a medium containing 5 nM cortisol. In all cultures, growth hormone (GH) release decreased. At the beginning of the culture, prolactin (PRL) was detected in 18 adenomas, varying from 0.5 to 1000 ng per flask per day. Thereafter, in 10 cases PRL secretion increased from 3 to 50 times the basal level, most frequently after a lapse of 9 to 30 d. PRL secretion remained low in three cases, undetectable in one case only. When added at 350 nM, cortisol increased GH secretion up to 20-fold and simultaneously decreased PRL secretion by as much as 10% of the basal level. Withdrawing cortisol reversed the situation. Immunocytochemical studies of the tumor at surgery showed, besides GH immunoreactive (IR) cells, PRL-IR cells (from rare cells to 10% of total cells) in 15 adenomas, correlating with the first days of culture PRL levels. In cultured explants, mitoses were never found. In 5 nM cortisol medium, the number of GH-IR cells decreased and PRL-IR cells increased or appeared. With 350 nM cortisol, the number of GH-IR cells increased, and PRL-IR cells were scarce or absent. Immunoreactivities for GH and PRL were found in different cells. Care was taken to exclude cultures containing normal pituitary tissue, and because no mitoses were found, these results suggest that most somatotropic adenomas can reversibly shift their secretion from GH to PRL in culture. This capacity to secrete PRL, hidden or low in vivo, is revealed by the favorable low cortisol conditions present in vitro.
4296738|Crosslinking of
4296224|Twelve insect cell lines were tested for their ability to synthesize chitin. Three of the 7 lepidopteran lines tested (UMN-PIE, IAL-PID2, MRRL-CH) produced a hyamine-resistant material that was digested by chitinase. The material did not withstand a more rigorous base digestion, and 20-hydroxyecdysone and diflubenzuron had no consistent effect on the production of the material. One of the 5 cockroach cell lines (UMBGE-4), which is an ecdysone-producing vesicle line, produced a material resistant to a strong base which was degraded to chitobiose and N-acetylglucosamine by chitinase. Production of this material by the cells is increased by 20-hydroxyecdysone and inhibited by diflubenzuron. The UMBGE-4 vesicles are covered with microvilli which bear membrane plaques and produce extra cellular material that resembles insect cuticle.
4296509|Plants develop from meristems where cells proliferate and are partitioned into layers that eventually differentiate to form the various tissues and organs of the plant. A phenomenon unique to certain plant tissues is the ability to induce de nova a range of developmental patterns, including embryogenesis. The temporal and spacial distribution of these developmental competencies suggests that regulatory proteins, rather than a lack of signals or signal receptors, shield specific developmental genes from signals that otherwise would confuse development. Studies involving embryogenic cells demonstrate that they are not strongly shielded from developmental signals, thus they are not determined. Furthermore, the normal development of zygotic and somatic embryos is readily perturbed by abnormal physicochemical environments. This suggests that embryogeny remains developmentally plastic until differentiation is largely completed. The ability to induce somatic embryogenesis from specific tissues by specific signals is providing opportunities to further the molecular characterization of the menagerie of genetic regulation involved in development.
20171463|The human uterine cervix consists of an endocervical canal lined with a single layer of columnar mucus-secreting cells and an outer ectocervix covered by a stratified squamous epithelium. We report here the culture of human endocervical epithelial cells (HEnE) and human ectocervical epithelial cells (HEcE) in serum-free medium (KGM). Both HEnE and HEcE cultures were composed of keratinocytelike cells which formed desmosomal contacts and stratified in the presence of high concentrations of calcium ions. Cells with a pleomorphic epithelial morphology were observed in HEnE cultures, but not in HEcE cultures. Keratin 18, which is characteristic of endocervix in vivo, was detected by indirect immunofluorescent staining in all HEnE cells but was never detected in cultured HEcE. HEcE expressed keratin 13 which is characteristic of ectocervix in vivo. Although keratin 13 was never detected in primary HEnE cultures, it was expressed in passaged HEnE cultures grown in medium with high concentrations of calcium and in late passage HEnE cultures. HEnE underwent an average of 15.1 population doublings during serial culture. Mean colony-forming efficiency during Passages 2 to 3 was 14.7% and mean population doubling time was 17.8 h. HEcE cultures underwent significantly more population doublings (29.0) than HEnE cultures, whereas colony-forming efficiencies and doubling times were similar to those determined for HEnE. HEnE and HEcE cells may be useful in developing in vitro models of cervical squamous metaplasia and for exploring the interactions between target cell differentiation, carcinogens, and papillomaviruses in the development of cervical neoplasia.
4296204|Callus cultures of Picea engelmannii (Parry, Engelmann spruce) were initiated and established from mature embryos cultured on von Arnold and Eriksson's medium (AE) supplemented with
4295770|This study demonstrated the importance of the methods used in determining the lymphoma cell colony stimulating activity of factors derived from lymphoma cells. The in vitro colony formation in a semisolid matrix of the AKR mouse lymphoma cell line, SL 12, and three cloned derivatives, SL 12.1, SL 12.3, and SL 12.4, was studied. We show that the use of soft agar or methylcellulose as a semisolid matrix results in colony formation by the lymphoma cells only in the presence of serum. The addition of conditioned medium (CM) from lymphoma cells growing in serum-free medium does not stimulate colony growth. However, when purified agarose is used, colonies grow in a dose-dependent manner in the absence of serum and in the presence of CM. These results indicate that the type of semisolid matrix used can influence results in studies of this nature. Purified agarose provides the best environment when colony formation by lymphoma cells is used to measure the presence of growth factors in test-conditioned media.
4296638|Coculture of two different cell lines in monolayer or spheroids was used to investigate the spontaneous transfer of dominant genes determining drug resistance. MGH-U1 human bladder cancer cells (ouabain-sensitive, mitomycin C-resistant) were cocultured with UV-20 cells (a subline of Chinese hamster ovary cells which is ouabain-resistant and mitomycin C-sensitive). We investigated the possible transfer of mitomycin-C resistance from human to rodent cells by selection in both ouabain and mitomycin C. Regardless of coculture conditions, the frequency of surviving cells was at a similar level to that expected from studies of cell survival when cells were cultured alone. We found no evidence of spontaneous transfer of drug resistance between the two cell lines.
4295862|Callus cultures derived from roots of summer squash (Cucurbita pepo L. c.v. Early Prolific Straightneck) grown in the dark at
4295802|We report here on the establishment of a Cydia pomonella (Cp) hybrid cell line IZD-Cp 4/13. As there have been no reports on somatic cell fusion involving lepidopteran cell lines so far, we had to develop an appropriate fusion procedure. We first tried-but without much success-to obtain HAT (hypoxanthine, aminopterin and thymidine)- or TAM (thymidine, adenine, and methotrexate)-selectable strains of the three Cydia pomonella cell lines IZD-Cp 2202, IZD-Cp 0508 and Cp 169. We then tried and succeeded in developing a fusion procedure based on the use of biochemically blocked permanent cells as one partner in the fusion. Biochemically inhibited IZD-Cp 2202 cells and embryonic Cp cells were hybridized by polyethyleneglycol treatment. The cells of the hybrid cell line IZD-Cp 4/13 differ from the permanent parental cells (cell line IZD-Cp 2202) with respect to morphology, DNA content, isoenzyme patterns, and response to challenge with the Choristoneura murinana nuclear polyhedrosis virus.
4296169|A new renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell line (KRC/Y) has been established from a surgical specimen of a 41-yr-old Japanese female patient with RCC composed of both clear cells and granular cells. This cell line has been maintained for more than 15 mo. through 45 passages with a stable growth. KRC/Y cells have clear or eosinophilic polygonal cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei with one or two nucleoli, and proliferate in a pavementlike cell arrangement with a lack of contact inhibition. By electron microscopy, these cells contain abundant fat droplets and glycogen granules or well-developed organelles or both, which were also observed in the original tumor. The doubling time of these cells at the 15th passage was 73 h. The chromosome number was from 37 to 45 with a hypodiploid modal number of 42. Tumorigenicity was identified by tumor formation after subcutaneous injections of KRC/Y cells in nude mice, which showed close resemblance to the original tumor by light and electron microscope observations.
20171459|Human arterial smooth muscle cells (hASMC) from explants of the inner media of uterine arteries were studied in secondary culture. We had previously found that these cells depend on exogenous plantelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) for proliferation in vitro. Deprivation of the serum mitogen(s) by culture in plasma-derived serum or bovine serum albumin (BSA) caused a true growth arrest that was reversible upon reexposure to the mitogen(s). When added to serum-containing medium, heparin caused a reversible growth arrest which could be competed for by incrasing concentratioins of serum. In the current study we used a set of sommth muscle-specific actin and myosin antibodies to study the expression of contractile proteins in stress fibers under indirect immunofluorescence on hASMC in culture. Even in sparse culture, growth-arrested hASMC expressed stress fibers containing these actinand myosin epitopes. This was true irrespective of whether growth arrest was achieved by culture in media containing only BSA or a combination of heparin and whole blood serum. hASMC proliferating in whole blood serum in sparse culture did not express such stress fibers, as judged by immunofluorescent staining. This was true also for cells that were restimulated to proliferate in serum after a growth arrest. Utilizing a monoclonal antibody against a nuclear antigen expressed in proliferating human cells, we were able to demonstrate an inverse relationship between the expression of this antigen and the SMC-specific contractile proteins, respectively. Under these culture conditions, the reversible transition between dedifferentiated and differentiated hASMC was almost complete and terminated about 1 wk after the change in culture condition. We conclude that hASMC in vitro respond to expgenous PDGF by proliferation and dedifferentiation as a single population of cells. We also conclude that this modulation is reversible, because the cells become uniformly quiescent and didfferentiated when the mitogenic stimulus is blocked or removed.
4295984|A human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell line (KYN-1) has been established from a resected HCC of a 58-yr-old Japanese, male patient with HCC. Original resected HCC was moderately differentiated and proliferated in a solid pattern with vague trabecular structure in part. This cell line has been maintained for 10 mo. through 50 passages. Morphological features of KYN-1 cells demonstrated one or more large, round-to-oval nuceli with prominent nucleoli and eosinophilic polygonal-to-spindle abundant cytoplasm. In addition, some of these cells contained mucicarmin-positive materials in the cytoplasm. The cells exhibited a typical epithelial feature with pavementlike cell arrangement, and lacked contact inhibition. The doubling times of the cells grown in a serum-containing and a serum-free medium were about 31 h and 10 to 11 d, respectively. Functionally, KYN-1 cells produced albumin,
4295784| The commercial source of fetal bovine serum used to supplement the growth medium of human skin fibroblasts alters the activity of the lysosomal enzyme dipeptidyl aminopeptidase-1 (DAP-1). Cells grown with one serum were found to have a threefold higher level of DAP-1 than those grown with serum from another source (P <0.001). The effect on DAP-1 activity was specific inasmuch as no differences were found in the activities of a variety of other lysosomal and nonlysosomal hydrolases: DAP-II, DAP-III, DAP-IV, -glucosidase, -glucuronidase, and iV-acetyl--galactosaminidase. The effect is reversible and is observed over a wide range of cell population doublings. Cell growth kinetics were not significantly different with the different sera. 
4296100|A major obstacle to applying the techniques of molecular biology to the genetics and cell biology of pigmentation has been our inability to grow normal murine melanocytes in culture. We report here the establishment and characterization of continuously proliferating cultures of cutaneous pigment cells from seven strains of mice. Melanocytes were grown from the dermis of newborn mice in medium containing 12-0-tetradecanoyl-13-phorbol-acetate; a substance, such as melanotropin, that raises intracellular levels of cyclic AMP; and an extract made from human placenta.
4296807| Gap junctional communication was examined in rat myometrial smooth muscle cells cultured under a variety of conditions. As a functional measure of gap junctional communication, donor cells were microinjected with the fluorescent dye, Lucifer yellow, and the transfer of dye from donor cells to primary neighbor cells was monitored by fluorescence microscopy. In a myometrial smooth muscle cell line established from midgestation (Day 10) rats, high levels of dye transfer, in excess of 90%, were observed in primary cultures and at Passages 1 and 10. A slight decrease in dye transfer to 75% was observed at Passage 5. Similarly, high levels of dye transfer were observed in a smooth muscle cell line established from the myometrium of a late-gestation (Day 19) rat under subconfluent as well as confluent culture conditions. Myometrial smooth muscle cell cultures established from sexually immature 19-day-old rats also exhibited high levels of dye transfer in primary cultures and at Passage 10. Treatment of primary myometrial smooth muscle cell cultures derived from immature 19-day-old rats with 17-estradiol (50 ng/ml) and 4-pregnen-3,20-dione (150 ng/ml) for 48 h in vitro had no significant effect on the high levels of dye transfer. Thus, extensive dye transfer was observed in the rat myometrial smooth muscle cells under all culture conditions examined, regardless of sexual maturity or gestational stage of the animal, in vitro hormone treatment, or cell density. 
4295791|Smooth muscle cell cultures were prepared from stomach explants obtained surgically from 10 patients with duodenal ulcer. The cultured cells grew in either overlapping layers in "hills and valleys" or in parallel arrays. The ultrastructure studies showed plasmalemmal vesicles, bundles of myofilaments associated with dense bodies, and gap junctions. The synthesis of contractile proteins illustrated the preponderance of actin on myosin and tropomyosin. The synthesis of contractile proteins in stomach smooth muscle cell cultures is significantly higher than in skin fibroblast cultures, i.e. 20 x higher for myosin, 10 x higher for actin, and 30 x higher for tropomyosin.
4296683|We have developed a tissue culture system using an extract of basement membrane (extracellular matrix) which promotes the in vitro growth and development of uterine luminal epithelium from the 5-day-old rat. Uterine luminal epithelium, free of stroma, was obtained as short tubes by trypsinization of uterine segments followed by mechanical separation. Epithelial segments were grown in a serum-free medium on culture dishes coated with an extracellular matrix. After 2 days, rapid cell growth resulted in monolayer cultures, which subsequently formed organoid structures similar to differentiated uterine glands present in uterine tissue taken from older rats. Electron microscopy of cultures revealed columnar cells with basally located nuclei, apical microvilli, lateral membranes with interdigitations, desmosomes, and secretory Golgi complexes, all features found in functioning uterine epithelium in vivo. This model will allow the in vitro investigation of the development of uterine epithelium-specific functions free of the influence of stromal cell factors.
4295805|16,16-Dimethyl PGE
4295874|Cell density is a factor that affects the capacity of Cloudman S91 melanoma cells to respond to melanotropins in monolayer culture. Continuous exposure of melanoma cells to
4296009|Phosphorylation of a light chain subunit of myosin by
4295795|The artificial sweetener saccharin inhibits binding of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to cultured rat pituitary tumor cells (
4295975|A serum-free medium for postembryonic chicken epiphyseal growth plate chondrocytes has been developed from 104 MCDB medium. To enable these fastidious cells to survive, grow, and express normal phenotype, a substantial increase over MCDB 104 in the level of many of the amino acids was required, as well as a change in the buffer system and the addition of SerXtend, a defined, serum-free product containing various growth factors, including fibroblast growth factor. Also required was the provision of cell attachment factors, either by coating culture surfaces with type II collagen, or better, by allowing the freshly released cells to recover for several hours in a medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum before plating. Ths new serum-free medium, which we call USC-HC1, supports growth and replication, the retention of normal polygonal morphology, the expression of significant levels of cellular alkaline phosphatase activity, the production of sulfated proteoglycans, type II collagen, and the formation of alkaline phosphatase-rich matrix vesicles by the chondrocytes. The major advantage of USC-HC1, however, is that it will provide for the first time an opportunity to examine the effects of various defined growth and hormonal factors on the phenotypic expression and differentiation of growth plate chondrocytes, in the absence of the variable (stimulatory and inhibitory) factors present in fetal bovine serum.
4295730|Distribution and organization of the extracellular glycoproteins, fibronectin and laminin, in clonal cultures of chick retinal pigmented epithelial cells have been investigated using indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. Fibronectin is located on the apical and basal cell surfaces and between the cells in the undifferentiated regions of the colony (outer edge and stratified region). It seems to run parallel to intracellular microfilament bundles and to be associated with them across the cell membrane. In the differentiated region of the colony (center), it is located exclusively on the basal cell surface and seems to be primarily associated with the collagen bundles of the basement membrane. The locations suggest that it may be necessary to permit rapid division and movement of the undifferentiated cells in the outer region of the colony, while stabilizing the sheet of differentiated cells in the colony center. In all regions except the outer edge of the colony, laminin is associated with the basal cell surfaces where it forms a meshwork of short, fine strands. The laminin has a totally different staining pattern from the fibronectin and does not seem to be associated with collagen bundles. The location suggests that laminin may be present in the basal lamina and may be involved in adhesion of the cells to the substratum.
4296953| The mitral valve has atrial and ventricular sides, each lined by endocardial cells. The valve stroma contains  smooth muscle actin positive interstitial cells, collagen, glycosaminoglycans, and elastic tissue. To eliminate the effect of endocardium on wound repair in bovine mitral valve organ culture, the endocardium was removed from both sides of the valve. At 6 days, organ cultures of these preparations revealed surface cells on the ventricular side but not on the atrial side. Ventricular surface cells were negative for Factor VIII-related antigen, and positive for  smooth muscle actin. Immuno-peroxidase staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen/cyclin, a marker for cell proliferation, revealed a positive labeling index of (mean  standard deviation) 0.08  0.16% for interstitial cells from the atrial side and 0.14  0.19% for ventricular side interstitial cells in uncultured preparations (not significant), and 0.44  0.69% for atrial side interstitial cells and 2.25  1.64% for ventricular side interstitial cells in the cultured preparations (significant, P < 0.0006). The results suggest that in organ culture, interstitial cells from the ventricular side of the mitral valve respond to a denuding endocardial injury by proliferating and migrating onto the adjacent surface whereas interstitial cells from the atrial side do not. This difference in the response to injury of interstitial cells from the atrial and ventricular sides of the valve may reflect differences in phenotype or may be due to effects of extracellular matrix on interstitial cell behavior. The latter is possible because of differences in the extracellular matrix of the atrial and ventricular sides of the valve. 
4296141|The murine uterine cervix cancer (MUCC) cell line was derived from a chemically induced Kunming mouse uterine cervix cancer (U27) and maintained in culture on solid substrates for over 100 passages. Cultures were morphotypically heterogeneous and heteroploid, with a modal number of chromosomes = 80. Each cell showed at least two abnormal chromosomes. Immunogold-silver staining was positive for keratin, vimentin, and laminin but not for desmin. The population doubling time was 27.8 h with a saturation density of
4296021|Myometrial cells were obtained following a three-step enzymatic digestion of uterine horns from Day 1 pseudopregnant rabbits. Isolated cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), whole or steroid depleted (FBS-DC) at a plating density of
4295991|Embryogenic callus was initiated from radicles of mature embryos removed from imbibed seeds (24 h). Embryogenic and other nonembryogenic types of callus proliferated on a modified half-strength Murashige-Skoog medium (MS) basal medium (BM) supplemented with myo-inositol, casein hydrolysate (CH), L-glutamine (gln) and growth regulators kinetin (KN),
4296053|The impact of an improved culture medium (
4296276|Populations of quail and chicken cells were treated with ethidium bromide, an inhibitor of mitochondrial DNA replication. After long-term exposure to the drug, the cell populations were transferred to ethidium bromide (EtdBr)-free medium, and cloned. Clones HCF7 (quail) and DUS-3 (chicken) were propagated for more than a year, and then characterized. Analysis of total cellular DNA extracted from these cells revealed no characteristic mitochondrial DNA molecule by Southern blot hybridization of HindIII- or Aval-digested total cellular DNA probed with cloned mitochondrial DNA fragments. Reconstruction experiments, where a small number of parental cells was mixed with HCF7 cells and DUS-3 cells before extraction of total cellular DNA, further strengthen the notion that the drug-treated cells are devoid of mitochondrial DNA molecules. The cell populations were found to proliferate at a moderately reduced growth rate as compared to their respective parents, to be auxotrophic for uridine, and to be stably resistant to the growth inhibitory effect of EtdBr and chloramphenicol. At the ultrastructural level, mitochondria were considerably enlarged and there was a severe reduction in the number of cristae within the organelles and loss of cristae orientation. Morphometric analysis revealed a fourfold increase of the mitochondrial profile area along with a twofold decrease of the numerical mitochondrial profiles. Analysis of biochemical parameters indicated that the cells grew with mitochondria devoid of a functional respiratory chain. The activity of the mitochondrial enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase was decreased by 95% and presumably accounted for uridine auxotrophy.
4295829|The most commonly used procedure to harvest cultured cells from petri dishes is to scrape the cells off the plates with a rubber or Teflon policeman. However, the results reported herein demonstrate that this technique, with its associated mechanical trauma, significantly perturbed cell membranes in neuronal-enriched cultures derived from the ventral half of fetal murine spinal cords. This is evidenced by liberation of free fatty acids and diglycerides, partial inhibition of
4295906|Differences between forest trees and other organisms include higher DNA levels, higher levels of heterozygosity per individual, a greater proportion of polymorphic loci, a higher average number of alleles per loci, and generally lower levels of population structuring. Forest management practices are generally less intensive than those commonly applied to domesticated crop plants. Because of this and the long generation time and infrequent harvest schedule, the elements of risk are greater than for other domesticated plant species. Appropriate strategies for implementing in vitro techniques that take these differences into account are discussed.
4296064|A human erythroleukemia cell line, K-562 T1, was adapted to a protein-free chemically defined medium (1); that is, the medium does not contain any proteins such as exogenous hormones, growth factors, serum and serum albumin. The K-562 T1 cells which can proliferate in a protein-free medium are one of the model systems suitably supporting the autocrine hypothesis (2), which claims that cancer cells produce and respond to their own growth factors (3). The K-562 T1 cells were cultured in a protein-free medium at large scale and the growth factors were purified from the conditioned medium. It was found that K-562 T1 cells produce at least two growth factors; one is LGF-I (leukemia-derived growth factor-I) which can stimulate the proliferation of a wide range of human leukemia cell lines and the other is LGF-II (leukemia-derived growth factor-II), which can contribute to the growth of fibroblasts. LGF-I was purified using QAE-Sephadex, Bio Gel P-60 and Mono S FPLC. The purified protein was found to be homogenous by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and NH
4296396|The failure of many cell culture isolates of Mycoplasma hyorhinis to grow on microbiological media has stressed the need for alternate assays to detect these organisms. The use of freshly prepared yeast extract in mycoplasmal media together with incubation in 5%
4296314| A431 cells grew at similar rates in protein-free Coon's modified Ham's F12 medium (PF-C-F12) with and without added bovine calf serum. The cells secreted a heparin-binding growth factor and a type- transforming growth factor, but their growth in PF-C-F12 was not affected by these factors, or by DNA synthesis factor from Rhodamine fibrosarcoma, basic fibroblast growth factor, insulin, human transferrin, bovine serum albumin, and their combinations. Growth of A431 cells in PF-C-F12 was not density dependent and was not affected by either addition of conditioned medium or replacement of conditioned medium by fresh medium. These results indicate that A431 cells have an intracellular mechanism for autonomous growth, and that their growth is not affected by factors that they secrete or by exogenous growth factors. 
4296464| Mammalian ovarian surface epithelial (OSE) cells and peritoneal mesothelial (PM) cells have a common embryologic origin, yet certain morphologic and histochemical characteristics are different in the adult. In this study, a two-step culture method was developed to examine the characteristics of these two cell types in vitro. OSE, PM, and ovarian granulosa (GC) cells were isolated from estrous rabbits and cultured for 6 d in 5% serum-supplemented D-valine medium (to inhibit fibroblast growth), then incubated for a further 2 d in serum-free McCoy's 5A medium. This study showed that rabbit OSE and PM cells in vitro maintained certain in vivo morphologic characteristics; OSE cells exhibited distinct cell borders and abundant microvilli of homogeneous size and shape, whereas PM cells were characterized by obscure cell borders and abundant microvilli of heterogeneous form. GC in vitro exhibited overlapping cell borders and sparse microvilli of homogeneous structure. This study showed for the first time that cultured rabbit OSE and PM cells, but not GC, contain distinct filaments of cytokeratin 18. In addition, rabbit OSE cells and GC, but not PM cells, contained 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. However, only GC contained delta 5-3 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. OSE, PM, and GC maintained their ultrastructural and histochemical characteristics in serum-free medium. These results suggest that rabbit OSE cells in vitro could be distinguished from PM cells by histochemical and ultrastructural differences. Furthermore, because these characteristics were not altered in serum-free medium, the two-step culture method will be valuable in further hormonal studies of these cells in vitro. 
4295927|Cultured microvascular endothelial cells (MEC) have become a valuable model for studies of microvascular physiology and pathology. Most current techniques involve manual removal of undesirable cell types or cloning, require one to several months, and yield high population doubling level cultures derived from a relatively small sample of the original population. We have devised a technique to more rapidly produce larger numbers of MEC. This method provided primary cultures consisting predominantly of MEC within 1 wk. The technique involves selective aspiration of gray matter from the bovine cerebral cortex followed by homogenization, sieving, enzymatic dissociation, and then dense plating (
4296394|Forty lymphoblastoid (lymphoid) lines were established from 42 volunteer blood donors, including healthy individuals and patients with head and neck carcinomas. Each peripheral blood sample was split into two portions, one for the establishment of a lymphoid line and the other for short-term culture, which was used to estimate bleomycin sensitivity by cytogenetic procedures. Twenty lymphoid lines were selected at random to compare bleomycin sensitivity with data obtained from short-term lymphocyte cultures. In each set, bleomycin sensitivity of lymphoid cells was similar to that of the lymphocytes. The lymphoid lines, which can be propagated for an unlimited supply of relatively homogeneous cellular material, will be useful for a variety of future investigations.
20171534| Salivary epithelial functions are regulated by the autonomic nervous system. In this regard, we have been studying the morphology and neuroreceptor composition of A253, an immortal cell line isolated from a human submandibular carcinoma (Giard et al., JNCI, 51:1417-1421, 1973). Phase contrast and electron microscopic observations indicate that A253 cells are of epithelial origin. Physiologically, A253 cells possess -adrenergic, but not -adrenergic or muscarinic-cholinergic receptors. The -adrenergic receptors (BARs) are composed primarily of a single class of high affinity, -subtype receptors as judged by [H]dihydroalprenolol antagonist binding studies. The BARs are functional inasmuch as isoproterenol stimulation increases both intracellular cAMP content and [H]mannose incorporation into endogeneous glycoproteins. Differences in ultrastructure and neuroreceptor composition between A253 and other immortal salivary tumor cell lines are discussed. 
4295902|To understand the earliest phases of epidermal cell spreading we have sought a defined in vitro system. We studied the divalent cation dependence of guinea pig epidermal cell spreading in media containing varying concentrations of cations. No spreading occurred in calcium-magnesium-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (CMF-DME) in the presence of cation-free fetal bovine serum; however, significant spreading occurred if the medium was supplemented with Mg
4295734|A procedure is described for large-scale isolation of micromeres from 16-cell stage sea urchin embryos. One to two grams of >99% pure, viable micromeres (
4296979|We studied the polarized secretion of tissue-type plasminogen activator in porcine thyroid cells cultured as a monolayer on porous bottom chambers. The presence of tissue-type plasminogen activator was detected by zymographic analysis on two independent media that were in contact either with the apical surface or with the basolateral membrane. The amount of tissue-type plasminogen activator was determined in both media by ELISA and enzyme assay. Measurable tissue-type plasminogen activator activity was found in the basal but not in the apical medium. However, on zymogram, a lytic zone corresponding to tissue-type plasminogen activator was visible in both media. In addition, a lytic band at 130 kDa suggested presence of a complex formed by tissue-type plasminogen activator and an inhibitor. Preferential basolateral tissue-type plasminogen activator antigen secretion (70%) has been observed, showing the possible relation between tissue-type plasminogen activator and extracellular matrix components. Neither tissue-type plasminogen activator level nor polarized secretion seemed to be regulated by thyrotropin (0.1 mU/ml).
4296869| Leupeptin, a thiol- and serine-proteinase inhibitor of low molecular weight, quickly enters viable cells. This property has been used to protect cells during thawing against intracellular proteolytic activities released by injured lysosomes. The bone marrow nucleated cells were frozen without rate-controlled freezing devices. Concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 1 M of leupeptin allow to recover 87% of the most immature multipotent bone marrow progenitors which can develop in vitro into large multilineage colonies, instead of 58% recovery without leupeptin. The protective effect of leupeptin is particularly useful to freeze cells difficult to cryopreserve or when freezing-control equipments are not available. 
4295768|A method is described for the attachment to and monolayer culture of adult rat hepatocytes on collagen-coated or fibronectin-coated microbeads or both in a chemically defined serum-free medium. Protein synthesis measured by the incorporation of
4295773|The addition of N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES) to RPMI 1640 medium markedly increases the production of cytotoxic products during exposure of the medium to visible light. The cytotoxicity has been analyzed by measuring uptake of [
4296755|We have determined the origin of the extra chromosomal material in the karyotypes of two spontaneously-occurring long-lived human keratinocyte lines, HKC-N2 and HKC-N6. In each case the extra material was derived from the chromosome on which it was located. Possible relationships between the triplication of chromosomal material and the overcoming of cell senescence are discussed.
4296150|Cellular transglutaminase (TGase) was demonstrated as an intracellular enzyme by immunofluorescence in WI-38 cells. Following cell membrane perturbation by Triton X-100 treatment, TGase was bound to the extracellular matrix and was found to coexist with fibronectin as visualized by immunofluorescence microscopy. The binding of TGase to the cell matrix was blocked by anti-fibronectin antibody. Exogenous sources of soluble TGase were transferred to the extracellular matrix of an untreated or methanol fixed cell. The experimental data indicated that "particulate bound" TGase is a consequence of soluble TGase binding to the extracellular matrix following cell rupture.
4296776|The effects of different substrata and
4295986|Transitional cell carcinoma from 20 patients and two human cell lines were maintained in short-term tissue culture. Each was studied ultrastructurally before and after incubaton with cisplatinum, adriamycin, or mitomycin C. Sequential ultrastructural changes were noted and were found to be specific for each agent tested. Ultrastructural changes in the nucleoli were produced by exposure to cisplatinum or mitomycin C; alterations in the heterochromatin of the nuclei were characteristic of treatment with adriamycin. The changes in the nucleoli seen with cisplatinum have not been described previously and support an alkylating property as a mechanism of action. Intravesical chemotherapeutic agents are now commonly used in clinical treatments. The morphological changes produced by these agents are specific and may be seen in the clinical setting.
20171401|Logarithmic proliferation rate (Days 1 to 6) of gingival fibroblasts derived from 15 pairs of monozygotic (MZ) and 9 pairs of dizygotic (DZ) human twins was compared under optimal and suboptimal growth conditions. Cell proliferation rates exhibited considerable variability among strains. For Caucasian donors (13 MZ, 6 DZ pairs) DZ twins demonstrated significantly greater (P &lt; 0.01) within-pair variance in cell proliferation rate compared to MZ twins when evaluated under optimal growth conditions. Heritability analysis indicated strong genetic control of proliferation rate of human gingival fibroblasts (HGF) under optimal growth conditions (1.0  0.67), whereas proliferation rate of HGF under suboptimal growth conditions revealed less genetic control (0.42  0.61). These findings emphasize the importance of carefully matching control and test HGF in assays dependent on cellular proliferation.
4296569|Normal human colon mucosa cells and cells obtained from histologically normal tissues near that cancer were fused with human colon cancer cells. Resultant hybrid populations of normal and malignant cell fusions behaved as nonmalignant cells in culture, were unable to grow in soft agar, did not express tumor-associated antigens, and were nontumorigenic in nude mice. Autofusion of the cancer cell population led to a phenotype intermediate between normal and malignant cells. That is, the cultures had a much lower plating efficiency in soft agar, and the tumors had a longer latency and slower growth rate in nude mice. This is the first cell culture system to demonstrate that normal epithelial cells can suppress malignancy of their autologous cancer cells, and is a prelude to more extensive studies of genetic events involved in malignant conversion of human colonic epithelium.
4296297|Although cultured vascular smooth muscle cells have been extensively characterized and investigated, there are very few studies of cultured intestinal smooth muscle cells. The aim of this study was to culture colonic smooth muscle (CSM) cells from the rabbit colon. Freshly isolated CSM cells from the circular muscle layer of the distal colon were prepared by collagenase digestion. In primary culture, CSM cells attached to the culture vessels by 48 to 72 h, proliferated by 3 to 7 d, and reached confluency by 14 to 17 d with a "hill-and-valley" pattern. Spontaneous contractions were not observed at any time at 21 or 37 C. Confluent primary cultures were greater than 95% CSM cells, as identified by intensely positive immunofluorescent staining to smooth muscle actin-specific CGA7 and muscle-specific HHF-35 monoclonal antibodies. Transmission electron microscopy of freshly isolated and proliferating CSM cells revealed ultrastructural features consistent with smooth muscle cells. We successfully cultured CSM cells of the rabbit from freshly isolated cells and validated these CSM cells by electron microscopy and immunocytochemical staining. These highly pure primary cultures may be used to investigate numerous aspects of CSM cell metabolism and physiology.
4295982|Epithelial cells from nasopharyngeal carcinoma biopsies were cultured with a high percentage of success and periods of growth much longer than those previously reported. Such cultured nasopharyngeal epithelial cells, if normal, are useful for experiments with Epstein-Barr virus in relation to nasopharyngeal carcinoma, and if the epithelial cells are Epstein-Barr virus associated tumor cells, they will be most useful for investigation into the etiology of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
4296417|Heparin-binding (fibroblast) growth factors (HBGF) are mitogens for both human aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells. Under similar conditions, both vascular cells display similar numbers of specific HBGF binding sites with similar apparent affinity for HBGF. The monokines, interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor, inhibit endothelial cell growth and stimulate smooth muscle cell growth. The opposite mitogenic effects correlate with reduction and increase in HBGF receptor number displayed by endothelial and smooth muscle cells, respectively. These results suggest that the two monokines may depress endothelial cell regeneration and augment smooth muscle cell hyperplasia by differential modulation of the HBGF receptor in the two vascular cell types.
4295967|Thymic stromal cells were cultured in conditions which select for epithelial cells. These were then transformed in vitro by contact with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine and cloned at limit dilution. One of the clones was characterized as being of medullary origin on the basis of its reactivity with a battery of antibodies previously shown to distinguish cortical from medullary thymic epithelial cells. The importance of this clone lies in the potential it offers to delineate how various T cell subpopulations acquire their distinct markers and function within the thymus.
4295916|A431 malignant keratinocytes, although derived from a muco-cutaneous carcinoma of the vulva, fail to achieve terminal epidermal differentiation in culture as shown by their inability to form cornified envelopes. Even after culture in a serum-free medium (MCDB 153) containing no retinoic acid and a high (
4296517|Isolation and culture techniques for hepatocytes from whole livers of the cynomolgus monkey, Macaca fascicularis, are described. Hepatocytes were isolated by two-step perfusion of livers, using collagenase with hyaluronidase; fructose and trypsin inhibitor were included to reduce cell loss. Yields from a single liver average
4296779| Primary cultures of mouse colonic epithelial cells have been obtained that are typically epithelial by morphology and moreover express keratins and endogenous -galactosidase; this latter activity was also demonstrated in the epithelial lining of the mouse colonic mucosa. The proliferative response of the primary colonic epithelial cells to epidermal growth factor, insulin, and the bile acid, deoxycholic acid, has been studied. Using primary cultures maintained at suboptimal growth conditions, which yielded 96 to 100% quiescent cells, epidermal growth factor, insulin, and the bile acid, deoxycholic acid, at concentrations at which it normally occurs in the aqueous phase of human feces, stimulated proliferation as measured by autoradiography. Exposure of the cells to combinations of these factors resulted in additive increases in growth. In conclusion, cells from the normal mouse colon can now be cultured while retaining at least two normal marker functions and moreover respond to some known mitogens and the potential tumor promoter deoxycholic acid. The cells can also be subcultivated while maintaining their epithelial morphology and marker functions for at least 3 passages. 
4295839|This study examined whether nonconfluent endothelial cell cultures reacted differently than confluent ones toward thrombin-stimulated platelets or a heparinized salt solution. The adherence to the endothelial cell cultures of
4296994|To establish the significance of the addition of trypsin inhibitors to pancreatic acinar cells maintained in vitro, cells were cultured in the presence or absence of soybean trypsin inhibitor. Both cultures exhibited similar growth pattern, ultrastructural appearance, as well as secretory properties. Moreover, there was no evidence of trypsinogen activation in the culture medium. Using the immunocytochemical approach, pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor antigenic sites were revealed with specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. The results obtained demonstrated that this trypsin inhibitor is in fact a typical pancreatic secretory protein being processed through the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi-granule secretory pathway of the acinar cells in rat and human tissues. While the polyclonal antibody yield labelings of increasing intensities along the secretory pathway, the monoclonal one probably due to the molecular nature of its specific antigenic determinant, gave higher labelings in the endoplasmic reticulum. In conclusion the present study has shown that pancreatic acinar cells secrete a specific pancreatic trypsin inhibitor which most probably is involved in the mechanism to prevent trypsinogen activation.
4295924|Commonly used enzymic methods for the isolation of rat Sertoli cells yield populations containing ~15% germ cells. Although the germ cells become eliminated after several media changes, they could interfere with the use of Sertoli cells for critical studies during the first several days of culture. A brief treatment of Sertoli cell monolayer cultures with 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4) was found to eliminate most of the residual contaminating germ cells. The duration of this treatment varied from 1.0 to 10 min, depending on cell denisty in the culture, the degree of germ cell contamination, and the age of animals used for Sertoli cell isolation. In a study of 95% pure, 7-d Sertoli cell cultures, the hypotonic treatment did not alter the DNA or RNA content per dish or the incorporation of
20171389|Growth and development of cotton fibers in a developmental mutant, Ligon-lintless, and its near isogenic wild type, Texas Marker-1, were compared in ovule and cell suspension cultures. In both organ and cell cultures the pattern of growth of fiber cells from the two genotypes mimicked the pattern of in vivo growth. The timing of fiber cell initiation soon after anthesis in Ligon-lintless suggests that the fiber cells on this mutant are analogous to the commercially important lint fibers. Length distributions of elongated cells from cell suspension culture of Ligon-lintless and Texas Marker-1 indicate that the length attained in culture is affected by the genotype of the explant tissue.
4296587| Recent studies suggest that the proliferation and expression of HLA-DR molecules in endometrial epithelium may be regulated by systemic steroids and local cytokines. To test the interacting influences of cytokines and steroids on the expression of HLA-DR and proliferation of epithelial cells, an endometrial cell model is required that is sensitive to both signals. In this study, we characterize cells of carcinoma cell lines of endometrial lineage for their responsiveness to cytokines and steroids. Independently developed for its response to steroid hormones from a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of human endometrium, EnCal0lAE cell line is further cloned for the expression of progesterone receptor. Immunohistochemical localization using monoclonal antibodies demonstrates that both EnCa101AE cell line and cloned ECC1 cells are purely epithelial, as evidenced by the expression of cytokeratin and epithelial membrane antigen, express estrogen receptors, and concomitantly exhibit IFN-gamma receptor. Experiments using radioiodinated IL-1 reveal that these cell lines also possess high affinity receptors for IL-1. As indicated by the induction of HLA-DR molecules, and alterations in morphologic characteristics, these cell lines are sensitive to both IFN-gamma and IL-1 action. The class II molecules (HLA-DR, HLA-DP, and HLA-DQ) are differentially induced by IFN-gamma treatment in carcinoma cell lines, with HLA-DR being the prevailing induced molecule. IFN-gamma inhibits and estradiol-17 promotes growth of ECC1 cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. These findings indicate that the interacting effect(s) of the cytokines and steroid hormones on endometrial epithelium may be studied in these unique steroid- and cytokine-sensitive epithelial cell lines. 
4296007|Active fibrous septa are a common feature in liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. Their etiology and formation were studied using cultures of tissue fragments or cells included in collagen gels. Liver fragments obtained from patients with cirrhosis or severe schistosomal fibrosis were able to reorganize the gel and to form discrete, interconnecting fibrous septa composed of parallel arrays of collagen, subsequently colonized by migrating connective tissue cells. The same was obtained in cultures of fibrogranulomatous lesions isolated from schistosome-infected mice livers. However, fragments of normal human and murine liver tissue did not show the capacity to form fibrous septa. Septa formation was also obtained in cultures of cell spheroids formed by liver connective tissue cells isolated from human fibrotic or cirrhotic liver tissues, but not with spheroids of normal skin fibroblasts or smooth muscle cells. This experimental model may represent the fibrous septa formation in vivo, depending on the activity of liver connective tissue cells. The ability of tissue fragments or cell spheroids to form septa in collagen gels might reflect the degree of fibrosis present in the liver tissue in vivo.
4296547|A new tumor cell line has been established from a malignant pleural effusion in a 28-yr-old female patient with a primary alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma of the left buttock. The in vitro and in vivo growth characteristics, morphologic features, abnormal karyotype, and immunohistochemical staining pattern indicate that this cell line is comprised of primitive malignant mesenchymal cells derived from a human rhabdomyosarcoma. Receptor studies done on tumors grown in male athymic mice revealed a single class of high affinity saturable cytoplasmic estrogen receptor (Bmax 2.6 fm/mg cytosol protein, Kd 0.34 nM). Likewise, sucrose density gradient analysis demonstrated specific low-capacity, high-affinity estradiol binding predominately in the 8S region. Cell growth in monolayer culture and on soft agar in the presence of estradiol was inhibited by pharmacologic concentrations of estradiol in a dose-responsive manner compared with control. We describe a newly characterized malignant mesenchymal cell line derived from an alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma that is inhibited by pharmacologie doses of estradiol in vitro. These findings suggest further investigation into the mechanism(s) of this estrogen-induced inhibition in rhabdomyosarcomas.
4295807|Expression of the anchorage-independent transformed phenotype in BHK 21/13 cells generally behaves as a recessive trait. When chemically induced and spontaneously arising transformants are fused to the non transformed parent line, transformation is initially suppressed, reappearing after extended growth of the hybrids. In this paper, complementation for the expression of anchorage independence was sought among a large group of such transformants, all independently derived from BHK 21/13 cells. Tumorigenicity studies on selected hybrids and parental lines indicated that the in vitro trait of anchorage independence is an accurate indicator of in vivo neoplasia for these cells. Seventeen of the 18 clones tested did not complement one or more of three tester strains. This result indicates that anchorage independence arose in these clones as a result of lesions in the same genetic function and suggests that the final step in the progressive changes of carcinogenesis may frequently be restricted to lesions at a single locus.
4296056| Some effects of culturing adult rat hepatocytes on each of four different substrates-laminin (LN), collagen type I (C-I), collagen type IV (C-IV), and fibronectin (FN)-have been investigated under defined conditions. No differential effect on the attachment of the cells to the various substrates was noted; however, the spreading of hepatocytes shortly after initial plating was most strikingly enhanced by FN, whereas LN exhibited little or no such enhancement. The two collagen substrates enhanced the spreading of hepatocytes more than did LN, but less than FN. The different substrates had no differential effect on the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase by dexamethasone and glucagon for at least the first 10 d in culture. The longevity of the hepatocytes was not changed significantly by any of the substrates, at least through the 14th d of culture. During the culture periods the hepatocytes at high cell density were maintained as confluent monolayers, regardless of the substrate on which they had been cultured. After 14 d of culture, -glutamyltranspeptidase activity was highest in cells cultured on C-IV, and lowest in those on FN. DNA synthesis in cultured hepatocytes at a low cell density was highest in cells cultured on FN, with decreasing levels of this parameter in cells cultured on C-IV, C-I, and LN, respectively. These results demonstrate that specific components of the extracellular matrix modulate both differentiated functions and the replication of hepatocytes cultured in serum-free medium. 
4295915|Guinea pig glomeruli were grown for 22 d in a serum-free medium composed of Waymouth's MB 752/1 supplemented with sodium pyruvate, nonessential amino acids, and antibiotics (the basic medium). Intracellular cellular activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD; both copper-zinc [Cu,Zn] and manganese [Mn] forms) and catalase, and intracellular active oxygen metabolites (hydrogen peroxide [H
4296373|A certain kind of cell in the pituitary gland exhibited immunoreactive keratin and dome formations in vitro. We obtained epithelial cells, which were able to subculture, from the outgrowth of anterior pituitary organ cultures. These cells lacked hormone secretory granules and exhibited immunoreactive keratin. Furthermore, they produced dome formations or cystic structures in monolayer culture and under three-dimensional culture condition using type I collagen gel. Dome formation was stimulated by dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP,
4295724|The distribution of laminin was investigated by immunocytochemistry in the rat anterior pituitary in vivo and in primary culture. It was localized by immunofluorescence and by immunoperoxidase in the basement membranes of the pituitary in vivo. In addition it was also found inside glandular cells both in vivo and in culture. The number of immunoreactive cells greatly varied depending on the technical approach used. It was always higher in primary cultures than in vivo. At the electron microscope level, a staining was observed on secretory granules, on rough endoplasmic reticulum cisternae as well as on the membrane of some Golgi saccules and vesicles. Such a localization, at the level of subcellular sites involved in the secretory process, suggests that these cells are able to synthesize and to export in vivo as well as in vitro this component of their basement membranes.
4296386| 2-Deoxy-D-glucose (2-DOG) uptake was tested in human fibroblast cultures in the presence and absence of vitamin E. Addition of 10 g/ml vitamin E to the culture medium significantly reduced this uptake for 2-DOG concentrations of 0.005 to 10 mmol/liter (P  0.01). The decrease of 2-DOG uptake was inversely proportional to the rise in 2-DOG concentration (P  0.01). The presence of vitamin E reduced by 71% the average cellular level of lipid peroxides (expressed as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances) and caused a small but significant decrease in the cholesterol concentration (P  0.01). These last results might explain the decrease in 2-DOG uptake observed in the presence of vitamin E. 
4296956|Derivatized dextrans exert a stimulatory effect on the in vitro growth of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HU-VEC). Measurements of growth were monitored by [
4295935|The human tumor-derived cell line HeLa S3 and nuclear and mitochondrial gene mutants derived from it are resistant to the aminoglycoside antibiotic, paromomycin (PAR). Other carcinoma-derived cells, SV40-transformed cells, and four human diploid fibroblast cell lines are all sensitive to PAR. Sensitivity is dependent on cell density, and at cell numbers greater than
4296543|Monolayers of 2 different populations of uterine cells and of fetal fibroblasts were evaluated for the support of rat embryo development in vitro. Compared to controls, cultures performed in Earle's buffered saline solution (EBSS) alone, the cleavage rate of 2-cell embryos to the 4-cell stage was significantly increased when the embryos were cocultured for 24 h with mixed uterine stromal and myometrial cells (70.7 vs. 56.0%; P < 0.01). Coculture of 2-cell embryos with either uterine epithelial-stromal or stromal-myometrial cells in medium TC 199 (M199) for 24 h significantly increased the cleavage rate to the 4-cell stage compared to controls in the same medium (respectively, 78.3 and 77.6 vs. 49.9%; P < 0.01). The development was not improved when fibroblasts were used as feeder cells. After 48 h, the proportion of 4-cell embryos showing cellular fragmentation was significantly decreased in the presence of either epithelial-stromal or stromal-myometrial cells in M199 compared to controls (respectively, 18.4 and 20.0 vs. 43.8%; P < 0.01). Coculture in EBSS or with fibroblasts failed to prevent embryo degeneration. In one coculture with stromal-epithelial cells in M199, 6/11 embryos proceeded beyond the 4-cell stage, two of them reaching the 8-cell stage. No embryo developed beyond that stage in our study. Although considerable efforts remain necessary to achieve further growth, these results suggest that coculture offers promise as a means of supporting the in vitro development of rat embryos.
4295932|A newly developed, serum-free medium (NYSF-404) selects for antibody-producing hybridomas after fusion of antigen-sensitized mouse spleen cells with myeloma cell lines P3-X63-Ag8-U1 (P3-U1), P3-X63-Ag8-6.5.3 (Ag8.653), or P3-NSI/1-Ag4-1 (NS-1). Without the need for hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine (HAT) selection of hybrid cells, frequency of hybridoma formation in medium NYSF-404 is higher (twice) than that in serum- and HAT-containing medium. Colonies developed upon limiting dilution in the presence of the mortal parent myeloma cells in medium NYSF-404 and pure culture of antibody-secreting cells could be subsequently established. The results suggest that fusions can be done in serum-free medium and that the clonal growth of hybridomas is dependent on factors produced by parent myeloma cells under serum-free culture conditions. Such factors seem deficient in serum- and HAT-containing medium or are masked by serum.
4295727|Four synthetic peptides related in amino acid sequence to the area of the fibronectin molecule thought to be involved in cell binding were tested for the ability to inhibit cell spreading promoted by several different attachment factors. Effects of the peptides were assayed on a number of cell types. For all cell types tested, peptides effective at inhibiting fibronectin-promoted cell spreading were found also to inhibit cell spreading promoted by human serum spreading factor (SF). These peptides were also capable of inhibiting to a lesser extent cell spreading promoted by other attachment factors, although this phenomenon was dependent on the cell type examined.
4295962|Attempts were made to select for trophoblast cells in cultures of mixed cell populations derived from preterm (7 to 12 wk) or term human placentas. Epidermal growth factor added to cultures on solid or porous supports caused proliferation of epithelial-type cells to give a confluent monolayer but did not increase the expression of differentiated function. The presence or absence of placental basement membrane collagen as substrate made little apparent difference; however a porous basement membrane collagen support led to increased differentiated function. Initial production of human chorionic gonadotrophin was increased and after 4 wk in culture a substantial proportion of the cells exhibited alkaline phosphatase activity. Epidermal growth factor and a substrate of placental basement membrane collagen on a porous support favorably influence the growth and differentiation of human trophoblast cells in culture.
4295948| We have examined the MGH-U1 human bladder carcinoma cell line and 12 primary bladder carcinoma biopsies for their ability to form spheroids in suspension culture and in multiwell dishes. MGH-U1 cells formed tightly packed spheroids with a necrotic center and viable rim whereas three sublines formed loose aggregates only. Spheroids formed from as few as 100 MGH-U1 cells placed into multiwells. MGH-U1 cells derived from spheroids formed new spheroids more rapidly and consistently than cells derived from monolayer culture. Spheroid diameter increased at a rapid rate of ~100 n/d in multiwell dishes, and necrosis occurred only in spheroids of diameter >1 mm. Spheroids placed in spinner culture at a higher concentration (~1.5 spheroids/ml) grew more slowly and developed necrosis at smaller diameters. The width of the viable rim of spheroids grown in spinner culture was maintained at ~190 m over a wide range of spheroid diameters (400 to 1000 m). Sequential trypsinization of spheroids, which stripped layers of cells from the spheroids, demonstrated no difference in the plating efficiency of cells derived from varying depths into the spheroid. Only one of the 12 primary bladder biopsy specimens demonstrated an ability to form spheroids. This biopsy, designated HB-10, formed spheroids that grew linearly over 40 d, formed colonies in methylcellulose culture and grew as xenografts in immune-deprived mice. These studies characterize the MGH-U1 spheroids that are useful in vitro models to study the effects of various treatments for solid tumors and demonstrate the limited capacity of cells from primary human bladder biopsies to form spheroids. 
4296629|Free radical damage has the potential to significantly affect the behavior of cells in culture. In this study the effects of antioxidants (superoxide dismutase, catalase, and vitamin E) and lowered oxygen tension (1% oxygen) on primary culture of rat mammary epithelial cells were examined. Rat mammary epithelial cells were dissociated in collagenase with or without the addition of antioxidants and low oxygen tension, then cultured for 10 d in rat-tail collagen gel matrix and fed with Dulbecco's modified Eagle'sF12 medium supplemented with various hormones and growth factors. Growth potential of the mammary cells was enhanced when antioxidants and low oxygen tension were used, alone or in combination, during the cell dissociation period. Using antioxidants and low oxygen tension during the culture period failed to improve growth potential regardless whether cells were dissociated in standard conditions or with antioxidants and low oxygen tension. The use of antioxidants and low oxygen tension during the cell dissociation period also reduced the degree of keratinization of the cells after 10 d of culture. Using antioxidants and low oxygen tension during the cell culture period did not further reduce keratinization if antioxidants and low oxygen tension were used during the dissociation period, but were effective in reducing keratinization if cells were dissociated in standard condition. In this system, antioxidants and low oxygen tension reduced lipid peroxidation during the cell dissociation period. An iron chelator, desferal, can also reduce lipid peroxidation and enhance growth when used during cell dissociation, suggesting the enhanced growth potential by the addition of antioxidants and low oxygen to be due to the reduction of lipid peroxidation.
4296782|Doubling time and generation time represent two parameters by which the proliferation of cultured mammalian cells can be monitored. In this study we report the characterization of CHEF 18 Chinese hamster cell line during the progression toward tumorigenicity by analysis of doubling time and generation time. The two parameters reveal that the proliferation was initially different, indicating the presence of a proliferative heterogeneity among the cycling cells. The progressive reduction up to the disappearance of this discrepancy suggests that a modification of the length of some phases of the cell cycle may have occurred during the progression toward tumorigenicity. However, the hypothesis that the shortening of doubling time might be due to a continuous coming out of cells from the cell cycle rather than to a shortening of the cell cycle is presented.
4296734|We have successfully maintained and biochemically characterized differentiated rat parotid acinar cells cultured for long periods (6 mo.). The cells were cultured on a reconstituted basement membrane matrix in a medium containing a variety of agents that promote cellular proliferation and differentiation. The cultured cells retain the characteristics of the parental parotid acinar cells. They exhibit both secretory granules and abundant cellular organelles required for protein synthesis and secretion. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry demonstrate high levels of proline-rich protein mRNA and protein, and lower levels of amylase mRNA and protein, in their cytoplasm. These findings suggest that rat parotid acinar cells can be maintained in a differentiated state in vitro for long periods, and can serve as a useful model system for studying the regulation of exocrine secretory processes.
4295817|In humans, the skin is a particularly sensitive target for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and certain halogenated analogs. Reported lesions include a thickening of the epidermis (acanthosis), hyperkeratosis, and squamous metaplasia of the epithelial lining of the sebaceous glands. In this report we describe ongoing studies on the actions of TCDD on cultured human epidermal cells. This system has been established as an in vitro model for interfollicular epidermal hyperkeratinization. Treatment of newly confluent cultures with TCDD results in enhanced differentiation as judged by histologic examination of the cultures, a decrease in the number of basal proliferating cells, and an increase in the number of envelope competent (differentiating) cells and terminally differentiated cells with highly cross-linked cornified envelopes. Changes in the differentiation program are preceded by a decrease in epidermal growth factor (EGF) binding. The concentration dependence and stereospecificity for these responses suggest the involvement of the Ah receptor. We propose that TCDD modulates normal patterns of epidermal differentiation through direct actions on proliferating basal cells, modulating the responsiveness of these cells to growth factors such as EGF.
4295946|A cell line (IPLB-TpE1) was established from embryos of the hymenopteran parasitoid, Trichogramma pretiosum Riley. Cultures contain a mixture of attached, elongate spindle-shaped cells and large aggregates of suspended cells. Chromosomes of the cells were typical of Trichogramma species and isozyme characterization showed patterns similar to T. pretiosum adults, but distinctly different from Heliothis zea, the lepidopteran host from which parasite eggs were obtained. The cells are capable of growth over a wide range of osmotic pressures with equal growth between 350 and 600 mOSM/kg. Optimal growth was obtained with a pH of 6.5. Doubling time at the 40th passage was 72 h and cultures are currently subcultured at weekly intervals.
4296499|Two new lines of human endometrial carcinoma (HEC) cells, one from an adenocarcinoma and one from a highly metastatic serous papillary carcinoma, were established in culture. Structural and morphologic properties of these cells at early passage were compared with those of cultured normal human endometrial epithelial (NHEE) cells. For these studies, cells were grown on a conventional plastic surface or on an extracellular matrix substrate (Matrigel), and examined by transmission electron microscopy and immunofluorescent light microscopy. The HEC cells appeared morphologically similar on plastic and Matrigel, whereas the NHEE cells showed significantly greater epithelial morphologic differentiation on Matrigel than on plastic. On extracellular matrix, the morphologic differences observed between HEC cells and NHEE cells were primarily of an architectural nature, which may be in part explained by differences between NHEE and HEC cells in the arrangement of actin microfilaments and cytokeratin intermediate filaments. Furthermore, HEC cells displayed extensive networks of vimentin intermediate filaments, which were absent from the NHEE cells. These observations support the hypothesis that architectural deregulation is a prominent feature of endometrial carcinoma, and that cytoskeletal alterations may uncouple HEC cell ultrastructural morphology from the influence of extracellular matrix.
4296766|Cytochrome P-450 dependent hydroxylation of testosterone was measured in 7-day-old cultures of primary rat liver parenchymal cells. Determinations were carried out in monocultures of parenchymal cells and co-cultures of parenchymal cells with rat liver nonparenchymal epithelial cells, or mouse embryo fibroblasts. In the monoculture system, testosterone metabolism was drastically reduced and hardly measurable after 7 days in culture. In the co-culture systems, individual P-450 isoenzymes were stabilized on different levels. P-450s p and presumably c were well preserved, P-450 a was reduced but clearly measurable, P-450 h was totally lost whereas P-450s b and e were not measurable after 7 days (the activities of these isoenzymes however were already low in freshly isolated parenchymal cells). The results were independent of the cell line used for co-cultivation and of the method of parenchymal cell isolation, that is whether collagenase or EDTA was used as the agent for dissociating the cells from the liver. The results showed that the co-cultivation of liver parenchymal cells with other nonparenchymal cells significantly improved the differentiated status of the former. In this cell culture system however, not every parameter was equally well stabilized.
4296512|A protein-free medium, termed ABC, has been developed which essentially eliminates the need for serum proteins. ABC supports the long-term growth of murine hybridomas as well as other transformed cells of the immune system. The requirement of hybridoma growth for transferrin has been met by substituting the soluble organo-iron compound, sodium nitroprusside. Substantial improvement in the growth of hybridomas was afforded by the inclusion of 18 trace elements complexed to disodium ethylene diaminetetraacetate (EDTA). The medium was further improved by the inclusion of components not found in Ham's F12 medium or by raising the concentrations of existing low molecular weight components. Murine hybridomas can be cultured routinely in this protein-free medium in an anchorage-independent manner with doubling times generally under 24 h. Visualized on electrophoretic gels, levels of monoclonal antibody taken from those cultures often exceeded 80% of the total protein. The medium was also able to support the growth of HuT 78 and H9 cells as well as certain other transformed cells of the immune system. In addition, normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes, activated with phytohemagglutinin and cultured with 50 U/ml recombinant interleukin 2, could be grown for 2 wk with a 50-fold expansion over input cell number.
4296340|Dissociated fetal rat brain cells (Day 14.5 of gestation) reaggregated into small cell clusters and formed large aggregates in a medium supplemented with serum or dialyzed serum in an aggregating culture. In contrast, only small aggregates were produced in a serum-free medium. The present results indicated that albumin, fetuin, transferrin, and
4295715|Pancreatic islets of Langerhans of the Syrian hamster were maintained in culture for as long as 43 wk. Islets were prepared by collagenase/hyaluronidase digestion of minced pancreas. The islets quickly attached to the plastic culture flasks and lost their spherical form as they flattened out to form circular monolayers. Few fibroblastoid cells were observed. As outward migration continued, the islets became vacuolated with the ultimate formation of monolayer rings. Throughout the culture period the beta cells continued to synthesize and secrete insulin. Furthermore, the cells maintained a responsiveness to glucose stimulation with increased rates of hormone secretion in the presence of elevated concentrations of the sugar. These studies demonstrate the suitability of Syrian hamster islets for studies involving long-term culture.
4296862|Continuous exposure of cells to cycloheximide (CHM) terminates in cell death. This may result from CHM's inhibition of protein synthesis. In the present study we investigated the effect of serum and insulin on cell death induced by CHM in the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, and correlated this effect to the inhibition of protein synthesis. Cell death was evaluated by measuring either dead cells by the trypan blue dye exclusion test or by the release of lactic dehydrogenase into the culture medium. CHM (0.1 to
20171591|We investigated the effects of human placental scatter factor (hSF), mouse scatter factor (mSF) and recombinant human hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) on motility and morphology of individual Madin-Darby canine kidney cells using a computerized cell tracking system. All three factors increased the velocity of individual cells and the ratio of moving to stationary cells. Similarly, all three factors caused changes in morphologic features of cells, leading to increased area, flatness, and polarity. Increases in area and flatness but not polarity were slightly greater with HGF than with hSF or mSF. These results suggest that SFs and HGF have similar effects on motility and morphology of isolated epithelial cells.
4296999|Conventional culture systems for hepatocytes generally involve cells cultured as flat, monolayer cells, with limited cell-cell contact, in a static pool of medium, unlike the liver in vivo where the parenchymal cells are cuboidal, with extensive cell-cell contact, and are continuously perfused with blood. We report here a novel bioreactor system for the culturing of primary hepatocytes with cuboidal cell shape, extensive cell-cell contact, and perfusing medium. The hepatocytes were inoculated into the bioreactor and allowed to recirculate at a rate optimal for them to collide and form aggregates. These newly-formed aggregates were subsequently entrapped in a packed bed of glass beads. The bioreactor was perfused with oxygenated nutrient medium, with controlled oxygen tension, pH, and medium perfusion rate. The hepatocytes were viable for up to the longest time point studied of 15 days in culture based on urea synthesis, albumin synthesis and cell morphology. Light microscopy studies of hepatocytes cultured for 15 days in the bioreactor showed interconnecting three-dimensional structures resembling the hepatic cell plate in the liver organ. Electron microscopy studies on the same cells revealed ultrastructure similar to the hepatocytes in vivo, including the presence of plentiful mitochondria, rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, glycogen granules, peroxisomes, and desmosomes. We believe that our hepatocyte bioreactor is a major improvement over conventional culture systems, with important industrial applications including toxicology, drug metabolism, and protein/peptide synthesis. The hepatocyte bioreactor concept may also be used as the basis for the development of a bioartificial liver to provide extracorporeal hepatic support to patients with hepatic failure.
4296165|In an attempt to understand events involved in the cellular regulation of in vitro plant organogenesis, experiments were performed in which tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) callus was transferred at different days in culture from a shoot-forming medium to a non-shoot-forming medium and vice versa. The transfers were made at key histologic stages of the shoot-forming process and known biochemical and biophysical correlates were examined. The changes in starch accumulation and disappearance supported the previously assigned functions, and could be correlated with the histologic changes that occurred in the callus after transfer at the different culture times. In contrast, the changes in respiration could not be correlated with these events. The changes in osmotic and turgor potentials after transfer showed that osmotic adjustment preceded both shoot initiation and development. This suggests that osmotic adjustment might play an important role in in vitro organogenesis.
4296272|Cell cultures derived from young rat epiphyseal cartilage were grown for approximately 2 wk in
4295965| The MJY-alpha epithelial-like mammary tumor cell line was adapted for cultivation in suspension using a shaker culture technique. Replication of suspension (MJY-beta) cells was more sensitive than monolayer cells to decreases in the concentration of serum in the medium. Comparison of amino acid incorporation and lactate production rates revealed additional differences between monolayer and suspension cultures. In addition, growth in suspension resulted in 10- to 400-fold increases in mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) production by the mammary tumor cells. Increases in MMTV yield were detected within 48 h of culture initiation and MMTV production remained elevated throughout 20 cell passages in suspension. Exposure of MJY-beta cells to 14 M hydrocortisone further increased MMTV yield two- to five-fold. The MJY-beta suspension cultures demonstrated that these epithelial-like cells do not require attachment to a solid substrate for replication or for MMTV production. Loss of structural polarization associated with growth as a monolayer resulted in stimulation of MMTV production greater than and independent of steroid exposure. 
4296124|An endothelial cell line derived from a massive recurrent chyle-containing retroperitoneal lymphangioma was isolated in monolayer culture. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry confirmed a close resemblance to blood vascular endothelium with typical cobblestone morphology, positive immunofluorescence staining for endothelial marker Factor VIII-associated antigen and fibronectin, and prominent Weibel-Palade bodies. The endothelial cells also exhibited other ultrastructural features characteristic of lymphatic endothelium, including sparse microvillous surface projections, overlapping intercellular junctions, and abundant intermediate filaments. This endothelial cell line represents a new source of proliferating lymphatic endothelium for future study, including structural and functional comparison to blood vascular endothelium.
20171546| We have studied the effects of all-trans retinol, all-trans retinoic acid, and anhydroretinol, a biologically inactive retinoid, on anchorage-independent growth of human fibroblasts induced by purified growth factors. The anchorage-independence assay was conducted in medium supplemented with serum that had had its peptide growth factors inactivated by treatment with dithiothreitol and iodoacetamide. Physiologic concentrations of either all-trans retinol (0.5 M) or all-trans retinoic acid (1.0 nM) but not anhydroretinol (0.5 M) reduced the frequency of anchorage-independent growth of normal human fibroblasts induced by platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). All-trans retinol was also tested for its effect on the frequency of anchorage-independent growth induced by basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and was found to decrease this growth. All-trans retinol also reduced the frequency of anchorage-independent growth of the human fibrosarcoma-derived cell line, HT1080, which grew in semisolid medium without added growth factors. Inasmuch as these retinoids reduced the frequency of anchorage-independent growth induced by either PDGF or bFGF and because PDGF and bFGF bind to independent cell membrane receptors and are known to stimulate different pathways leading to DNA synthesis, the data suggest that physiologically active retinoids have an effect on a step that is common to both signal pathways. 
4296232|During morphogenesis, tumor progression and metastasis, cell adhesion, dissociation, and migration result from a complex balance between cell-to-cell and cell-to-matrix interactions. Two different organization patterns of MCF-7 cells were induced by different extracellular matrix proteins. When plated on plastic or polymeric type I collagen gel used as a model of interstitial matrix, MCF-7 cells spread and grew in monolayer. When cultured on a solid gel of basement membrane (BM) proteins (85% laminin) used as a model of BM, cells formed clusters attached to the matrix. Matrix proteins regulated these two types of cell organization by preferentially promoting cell-to-cell or cell-support interactions. On plastic in the presence of soluble laminin or on laminin-coated dishes, cells also formed clusters. Addition of soluble fibronectin induced spreading of the cells, suggesting that laminin and fibronectin have competitive antagonistic effects on MCF-7 cell morphology. Antilaminin antibodies inhibited cluster formation and attachment, emphasizing the important role of this glycoprotein not only in promoting cluster attachment but also in cell-to-cell contact formation. Such effects of extracellular matrix proteins could play significant roles in tumor progression and metastasis.
4296532|Epithelial cells isolated from fragments of hamster pancreas interlobular ducts were freed of fibroblast contamination by plating them on air-dried collagen, maintaining them in serum-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's (DME):F12 medium supplemented with growth factors, and selecting fibroblast-free aggregates of duct cells with cloning cylinders. Duct epithelial cells plated on rat type I collagen gel and maintained in DME.-F12 supplemented with Nu Serum IV, bovine pituitary extract, epidermal growth factor, 3,3',5-triodothyronine, dexamethasone, and insulin, transferrin, selenium, and linoleic acid conjugated to bovine serum albumin (
4295762|Culture conditions modulating cell damage from xanthine plus xanthine oxidase-derived partially reduced oxygen species were studied. Porcine thoracic aorta endothelial cells and porcine lung fibroblasts were maintained in monolayer culture. Cells were prelabeled with
20171523| Primary Rhodamine fibrosarcoma (RdF) cells from rats were shown to grow in serum-free medium supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), albumin, and transferrin, all of which were purified from RdF tissue. Their growth rate with these supplements was similar to that of cells in medium supplemented with calf serum. bFGF purified from RdF tissue (Rd-bFGF), which was previously designated as DNA synthesis factor, stimulated the growth of primary RdF cells maximally at 30 ng/ml in the presence of the other two proteins. Albumin and transferrin were separated from partially purified tumor growth stimulating activity which was previously shown to stimulate growth of primary RdF cells in serum-free medium. The albumin (RdA) and transferrin (RdT) found in the extract of RdF tissue were not due simply to contamination of the tissue with blood, but to their accumulations in the tissue. The growth stimulatory activities of RdA and RdT on primary RdF cells in serum-free medium were maximal at 30 and 10 g/ml, respectively. These results suggest that Rd-bFGF, RdA, and RdT, all of which accumulate in the tumor tissue, are essential for growth of RdF cells in the tissue. 
4296134|New cell lines, designated as ML-DmD1~10, were established from dissociated imaginai discs of Drosophila melanogaster. The culture medium was prepared by mixing in a 1:1 ratio Cross and Sang's M3(BF) medium, supplemented with 10% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS), with the supernatant of a primary embryonic cell culture made in the M3(BF) medium and supplementing this mixture with insulin. One cell line was established in the medium containing larval hemolymph instead of the primary culture supernatant, and another was established in fresh M3(BF) medium supplemented with insulin and FBS. In these mediums, imaginai disc cells first formed aggregates and cellular vesicles within a few weeks followed by the proliferation of thin-layered cells around them after about 1 mo. Ten cell lines have so far been established from two kinds of imaginai discs and disc mixtures. The ploidy of these cell lines was predominantly diploid. Population doubling time was about 50 to 70 h at 3 to 10 mo. after initiation of the culture. When the cell aggregates formed in vitro were implanted in metamorphosing larvae, they differentiated at high frequency into adult cuticular structures in the early phase of the primary culture. This differentiation of aggregates was also observed, though at low frequency, in a culture maintained by dilution-transfer for 6 to 15 mo. in vitro.
4296693|A primary constraint in the culture of human filariae is in obtaining starting material-either microfilariae (mfs), which infect invertebrates, or third stage larvae (L3s), which are infective to humans. Cryopreservation methods which partially overcome this difficulty have been developed for both mfs and L3s. Complete development of mfs to L3s outside an intact host was obtained recently when mosquito thoraces infected by Brugia malayi (24 h after the bloodmeal) were maintained in vitro. In another recent study in which no host tissues were present, a semidefined culture medium was used to investigate the properties of reduced glutathione (GSH) that stimulate early development of Onchocerca lienalis mfs. An extended cysteinyl backbone and a free sulfhydryl were identified as the key structural elements provided by GSH. Stimulation also required the presence of low and high molecular weight components of serum as well as oxygen. Molting of Onchocerca spp. L3s to the fourth stage at the rate of 50 to 70% has been reported by several researchers. Key factors identified in those successes have been temperature and serum lot. Improved long-term viability occurred with cellular co-culture. Beneficial effects of co-culture were shown to be due both to cellular conditioning of the medium as well as to lowered dissolved oxygen levels as a result of cellular metabolism. With the use of cell-conditioned medium and decreased incubator oxygen levels, long-term viability of Onchocerca larvae in culture exceeded that previously reported. Recently, Brugia malayi adults of both sexes were cultured from L3s using a semidefined medium supplemented with human serum. Many of these sexually matured adults mated and produced viable microfilariae.
4295783| Venom from the ant Pseudomyrmex triplarinus reduces the symptoms and swelling of rheumatoid arthritis. The cells that produce the venom were dissected from larval and pupal ants and culture conditions studied. Cell dissociation, with minimal amount of damage, was done with 0.25% trypsin at 4 C with subsequent use of soybean trypsin inhibitor. A new medium was formulated and epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, insulin, cAMP, cGMP, and isoproterenol were beneficial. The optimum osmotic pressure was a relatively high 500 mOSM. Conditioning the medium with an established insect cell line was essential for long-term cell survival. Under these culture conditions the structural and metabolic integrity of the cells were maintained for up to 12 mo. 
4296264|Very early embryonic mesoderm cells were taken from the primitive streak-stage chick embryo and cultured in a matrix of type I collagen in the presence of serum. Previous work has shown that under these conditions cells do not leave the explant and move in the collagen in the absence of supplemented avian transferrin. Cells explanted onto tissue culture plastic in the presence of serum do not require this transferrin supplement. These observations were investigated further by culturing cells in collagen in the presence of the lipophilic iron chelator, ferric pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone (FePIH), which can replace transferrin as an iron-delivery agent. Under conditions in which FePIH could effectively stimulate chick embryo myoblast growth, no such long-term stimulation was obtained with the early mesoderm cells in collagen. This suggested that for mesoderm cells, FePIH could not replace transferrin. Antibody to the transferrin receptor and to transferrin itself inhibited growth of myoblasts in collagen and on plastic, and of mesoderm cells in collagen. Mesoderm cells on plastic, however, were refractory to the presence of the antibody directed to the receptor and seemed to show a low dependency on transferrin-delivered iron under these conditions, inasmuch as antiserum to transferrin itself only caused a partial inhibition of outgrowth. The results suggest that mesoderm cells in collagen require transferrin for both iron uptake and for another unspecified function. It is consistent with the results to propose that transferrin binding might modulate the cells' attachment to collagen, thus influencing outgrowth. The distribution of the actin cytoskeleton in mesoderm cells actively migrating in collagen, such as in the presence of transferrin, suggests a stronger attachment to the collagen than nonmigrating cells.
4295825|Callus growth from 10 cultivars of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench was measured with increasing levels of polyethylene glycol (PEG) as an osmoticum in the medium to determine whether differences among these cultivars at the cellular level in response to osmotic stress existed. These cellular ratings were compared to field ratings from the 10 tolerant-to-susceptible cultivars when grown under drought conditions to determine whether cellular ratings corresponded to differences in drought tolerance at the plant level. Callus cultures were grown on Murashige and Skoog inorganic salt formulation plus vitamins, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), kinetin and sucrose, supplemented with 0 to 25% (wt/vol) PEG corresponding to -0.2 to -1.62 MPa osmotic potential. Results suggest that PEG-induced osmotic stress on callus cultures can be used to screen sorghum cultivars for potential early field (preflowering) drought tolerance. This implies that at least a component of the early field drought tolerance in sorghum may have a cellular basis.
4295973|Gossypol, a polyphenolic compound known to interfere with spermatogenesis, was found to have differential cytotoxic effects on normal and malignant melanocytes in culture. Ultrastructurally it caused marked swelling and vacuolization of mitochondria; there was an almost complete loss of cristae but the outer mitochondrial membrane was retained. The cytotoxicity seemed to be selective for actively proliferating cells, regardless of normal or malignant origin. An endothelial cell line (RF/6A) derived from the choroid-retina of the eye of a rhesus fetus was extremely sensitive to its toxic effect. The mechanism of action is still unknown. The fact that mitochondria are predominantly damaged suggests that toxicity involves a perturbation of energy metabolism and the membrane transport system.
4296146| Time- and dose-dependent toxic effects of lead (Pb) acetate on astroglia, oligodendroglia, and meningeal fibroblasta cultured from immature rat brain were measured. Cultures were exposed for 3 d to Pb (1,10, and 100 M) and then examined immediately (Day 0) or 3 or 10 d after Pb treatment was discontinued. The percentages of astroglia and fibroblasts excluding dye were unaffected by Pb, whereas the percentage of oligodendroglia excluding dye decreased significantly (P <0.01) at all time points after exposure to 100 M Pb. Lead (100 M) also reduced the total cell numbers of astroglia, oligodendroglia, and meningeal fibroblasts. Amino acid incorporation into protein by oligodendroglia was stimulated after exposure to 100 M Pb at all time points and also by 1 and 10 M on Day 3. Incorporation was stimulated in astroglia only on Day 0 by 10 and 100 M. Hydrocortisone-stimulated glycerolphosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) activity was assayed in oligodendroglia cultures. A significant decrease in specific activity was seen after a 4-d exposure to lead. Because oligodendroglia are responsible for myelin synthesis in the central nervous system, and GPDH may synthesize a precursor for myelin lipid synthesis, it was proposed that the hypomyelination observed in leadintoxicated neonatal rats may result partially from a primary toxic effect on oligodendroglia. GPDH activity was not inhibited by Pb in mixed glial cultures containing both astroglia and oligodendroglia. This result suggests that astroglia in culture have the ability to delay the lead-induced inhibition of oligodendroglial GPDH activity and supports the hypothesis that astroglia in culture serve a protective function. 
4296861|Culturing human prostate PC-3 cells for 4, 24, or 72 h in the presence of 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid (ETYA), an inhibitor of arachidonic acid metabolism and cholesterol biosynthesis, markedly altered the morphology and reduced the number of mitochondria in the treated cells. Using quantitative electron microscopic morphometry, we documented changes in the number, form, area, matrix density, and integrity of the cristae and limiting membranes of mitochondria in cells cultured with ETYA. The inhibition of cholesterol synthesis or the substitution of ETYA for polyunsaturated fatty acids in the inner membrane may participate in the disruption of the mitochondria, which resembles the morphologic sequelae of oxidative stress. If sufficiently extensive, these changes could contribute to the inhibition of cellular proliferation by ETYA.
20171549| Primary rat hepatocyte suspension cultures (2  10 cells) exposed to solubilized 2,3,4-trimethylpentane at concentrations ranging from 7.9 to 31.5 mM under two different culture conditions resulted in a linear dose response, as determined by lactate dehydrogenase leakage and viability data. A significant increase in the 2,3,4-trimethylpentane effective concentration 50 for primary hepatocytes occurred when exposures were implemented in medium containing 0.05% albumin. The effective concentration 50 for hepatocytes exposed to 2,3,4-trimethylpentane in medium lacking and containing albumin were 17.1 and 20.7 mM, respectively. Metabolite analysis by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry of supernatant (lacking or containing albumin) and cell extracts from hepatocyte cultures exposed to 2,3,4-trimethylpentane for 4 h indicated the presence of three metabolites: 2,3,4-trimethyl-1-pentanol, 2,3,4-trimethyl-2-pentanol, and 2,3,4-trimethyl-1-pentanoic acid. Electron microscopic examination of 2,3,4-trimethylpentane-exposed primary hepatocytes indicated ultrastructural changes which included abnormal condensed chromatin association with the nuclear membrane, swollen mitochondria, increased amounts of cytoplasmic lipid, significant loss of microvilli from the cell surface, increased vacuolation, and increased numbers of peroxisomes. Although these changes were observed under both culture conditions, they were more severe in cultures lacking albumin. This study indicates that primary hepatocyte suspension cultures provide a useful system for rapidly identifying liver metabolites of selected test compounds of interest. 
4296551|When confluent monolayers of cells derived from chicken embryos of different gestational age were cultured for several days without a medium change, a condition termed in vitro aging, the cells' developed an increased capacity to express the interferon (IFN) system. The capacity to both produce IFN and to respond to its antiviral action were enhanced up to 1000- and 100-fold, respectively. Remarkably, the programmed development of the IFN system in these cells seemed to continue virtually uninterrupted after monodispersion of the cells and seeding at high cell density. Cells prepared from young embryos required more time to develop the IFN system than cells from older embryos with the yield of IFN, and sensitivity to its action, related directly to the total in ovo and in vitro age of the cells in culture. For example, essentially the same yields of IFN were obtained from cell cultures made from 5-d-old embryos "aged" for 10 d in vitro, as were obtained from 10-d-old embryos whose cells were aged in vitro for 5 d. In contrast, inducibility of 2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase by IFN and the induction of heat shock genes by elevated temperature are not enhanced with in vitro aging. The programmed development of the IFN system that starts in ovo seems to continue on schedule in vitro, making the development of the IFN system in chick embryo cells appear as a time-dependent process.
4295925|Primary cultures of newborn mouse epidermal cells proliferate rapidly and with a high growth fraction for several months when grown in medium with low calcium (0.02 to 0.1 mM). Addition of calcium to levels generally used in culture medium (1.2 mM) was followed by rapid changes in the pattern of proliferation. By using a combination of technics (a stathmokinetic method, autoradiography, [
4296888|A coleopteran cell line (AGE) derived from the cotton boll weevil Anthonomus grandis supported replication of Autographa californica multiple nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV). The titer of extracellular virus (ECV) and the number of occlusion bodies (OB) produced in AGE cells were approximately equal to those produced by a Trichoplusia ni cell line (TN-CL1), and the OB produced by both cell lines were equally infectious for T. ni larvae. The identity of the AGE cell line was established by chromosome and isoenzyme analyses.
4296252|A new model for organ culture of endocrine tissue is described. Rat anterior pituitary fragments were cultured for 4 wk within semipermeable polyurethane isocyanate hollow fibers. Growth hormone and prolactin, two of the anterior pituitary hormones, were released into the medium during the entire culture period. Electron microscopy of the pituitary fragments after 2 wk in culture showed a rim of viable tissue in all specimens examined. Individual cells, from this outer rim, exhibited excellent organelle preservation and numerous secretory granules. Experiments involving potassium depolarization and 10
4296367|This study was originally designed to investigate whether there is any correlation between the type of procoagulant activity (PCA) and the tumorigenicity of transformed cells. The data obtained are relevant to this question and to defining the differences in the expression of cellular activities depending on the in vitro system used. PCA was measured and characterized in normal, immortalized, and tumorigenic mouse fibroblasts. In all the cell lines studied the activity was of tissue factor type, as established with functional, enzymatic, and immunochemical criteria. However, the PCA of cells freshly isolated from the tumors induced by tumorigenic cell lines was of cancer procoagulant type, i.e. a cysteine protease with direct factor X activator activity. The same cells, when cultured in vitro, expressed again PCA of tissue-factor type. These results suggest that either a tumor-host interaction is required for the expression of cancer procoagulant or the latter activity, produced by tumor cells under in vitro conditions, is destroyed or inactivated during the culture period. Our findings caution against defining the procoagulant activity of tumors based on experiments on cultured cells.
4295772|The ability of insect hemolymph to induce vesicles in a high passage insect cell line, IAL-TND1, is described. The factor responsible, designated VPA for 'vesicle-promoting activity", was determined to be heat sensitive, nondialyzable, and protease Type XIV sensitive but insensitive to tryp-sin digestion. In efforts to determine the source of VPA, hemolymph was collected from different developmental stages of Trichoplusia ni, and certain tissues from T. ni were cocultured with IAL-TND1 cells. Hemolymph from every developmental stage tested exhibited VPA although the effect was somewhat reduced in spinning-stage larvae. Additionally, several tissues, including fat body, tess, and imaginai discs, released VPA into the culture medium. Neural tissues and endocrine glands did not induce vesicle formation.
4295853|Nasal turbinate epithelial cells were isolated from rats, rabbits, and humans using either a surgical or an in situ enzyme incubation technique. The culture conditions that permit optimal cell attachment and selective growth of the nasal epithelial cells were determined. These conditions will permit the long-term culture of these cells where typically 20 to 30 population doublings were observed. Differences between rat and human nasal epithelial cells were seen in substrate requirements, colony-forming efficiency, and response to fetal bovine serum and bovine serum albumin. These methodology and results will permit mechanistic studies of normal and abnormal cellular function and comparative response studies between nasal epithelial cells from rats and humans.
4295966|Human arterial endothelial cells were cultured in vitro for up to 40 cumulative population doublings. Culture conditions similar to those required for long-term propagation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells were employed. These included fibronectin-coated culture vessels, 5 to 20% fetal bovine serum, endothelial cell growth factor, and heparin. Thoracic aorta endothelial cells were larger than iliac artery endothelial cells. Both cell types stained positively for Factor VIII antigen by immunofluorescence. A decrease in confluent density as a function of population doubling level was correlated with the appearance of large, senescent cells in the cultures. Serum growth factors to which the arterial endothelial cells responded included insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor, thrombin, and somatomedins. The effect of thrombin did not require the availability of the active site of the protease. The effect of the somatomedins was only seen in the presence of heparin. Neither platelet-derived growth factor nor hydrocortisone induced arterial endothelial cell proliferation. These growth factor responses were also observed on the part of human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
4295856|Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activities were significantly higher in proliferative endometrium during the estrogen-dominated follicular phase of the menstrual cycle than in secretory endometrium after the formation of the progesterone-secreting corpus luteum. The enzymatic activity was increased about fivefold by renewal of the medium during incubations of endometrial fragments or isolated endometrial glands. Endometrial adenocarcinoma cells (HEC-1, HEC-50), both in monolayers and suspension, also responded to medium renewal by increasing ODC activity about 10-fold after 4 h, with subsequent reduction to control levels after 7 h. These effects were blocked by actinomycin D and cycloheximide. Endometrial stromal cells exhibited highly variable ODC activities at different passages. Difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and sodium molybdate had marked antiproliferative effects in HEC-50 cultures, reducing cell numbers to 10 to 20% of control values 11 d after plating and inhibiting ODC activity by approximately 80% on Day 7. The antiproliferative effect of DFMO, but not that of molybdate, was reversed by
4295864|Long-term monolayer cultures of adult rat hepatocytes were tested for their ability to glucuronize phenol red and to maintain initial levels of cell proteins, glucose consumption, and lactic acid production. Lactate dehydrogenase leakage served as an index of culture status because a high value indicates cell death. Three tissue culture (TC) media formulations were the main variables introduced to determine ideal conditions for cell survival in vitro. Investigations of long-term cultures were preceded by studies of hepatocyte attachment to polystyrene surfaces. This attachment was influenced by the amount of substrate deposited and the number of cells seeded, but not by the uniformity of the substrate coating. A statistical analysis of our data revealed that in the absence of fetal bovine serum (FBS), air dried collagen (ADC) and Biomatrix (BMX) were superior to saline precipitated collagen and fibronectin as attachment substrates. In the presence of 10% FBS, all of the substrates performed equally. Chee's Medium (CEM) proved to be the best for preserving cell proteins over a time course of 28 d and Williams' E medium also performed adequately up to 14 d. The glucuronization of phenol red was at 50% of initial values at Day 7 in CEM-ADC hepatocytes in contrast to 30% for cells in Williams' E medium and 5% for cells grown in Waymouth's. At 14 d glucuronization was still present at 40% of original values in CEM-ADC cells but had ceased in the other two media. When BMX was used, none of the TC media supported glucuronization levels comparable to ADC cells.
4295977| A method is described to generate microcells from human lymphobalsts for use in microcell-mediated chromosome transfer (MMCT). Micronuclei were induced in cells from a human lymphoblastic cell line by prolonged colcemid treatment, and were separated from these lymphoblasts by: (a) attaching the cells to Concanavalin A coated plastic slides designed for enucleation, and (b) centrifuging the slides in medium containing cytochalasin B. Microcells of less than 3 m in diameter were fused with thymidine kinase negative mouse fibroblasts (LMTK-). HAT medium (hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine) was used to select microcell hybrids expressing thymidine kinase activity. Positive clones were isolated and Q-banded for chromosome analysis. Unlike previous methods, this procedure permits microcells to be easily generated from lymphoid cells. This methodology of enucleation of microcells may be extended to a variety of other donor cell types which can be micronucleated but which do not adhere tightly to enucleation slides and do not exhibit extrusion subdivision. This feature makes our methodology particularly useful for constructing a library of hybrid clones containing one or a few human chromosomes. 
4296585|Primary cultures of 9-d-gestation Syrian hamster embryo (E9) cells are distinct from primary cultures of later gestational age in terms of their growth and differentiation. First, primary E9 cell cultures express multiple mesenchymal differentiation lineages (e.g., adipocyte, myoblast) only rarely seen in cultures of 13-d-gestation fetal (F13) cells. Second, although most primary E9 cultures have a limited in vitro proliferative life span and exhibit cellular senescence similar to primary cultures of F13 cells, E9 cultures seem to have higher frequency of escape from senescence and conversion to continuous cell lines compared to F13 cells. Moreover, this frequency can be further increased 4- to 5-fold by continuous exposure of the E9 cells to tumor promoters or epidermal growth factor. Eleven continuous cell lines have been isolated from unreated, promoter-treated, or epidermal growth factor-treated primary E9 cultures. Seven of these are neoplastic or preneoplastic. However, the remaining four do not show any evidence of being in neoplastic progression and three of these continue to express the same differentiated phenotype observed in ther parental primary cell cultures.
4296061|The liver of rodents is sexually differentiated, i.e. the female liver differs from the male liver. This differentiation is largely controlled by the pattern of growth hormone (GH) secretion. We have attempted to maintain GH-dependent differentiation of cultured rat hepatocytes. We examined the level of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity, which responds to GH and is higher in female than in male liver, and the estrogen receptor, which is dependent on GH but is present in equal amounts in males and females. ADH activity was maintained in cells from male rats, but fell by 40% in cells from females in medium supplemented with insulin and dexamethasone. The estrogen receptor content of female cells fell dramatically to undetectable levels within 2 d of culture. Extensive supplementation of the medium failed to prevent the decrease in ADH activity in female cells; similarly, the addition of female sex steroids; rat serum; pituitary extracts; rat, human, or bovine GH; or ovine prolactin failed to maintain the enzyme activity. Insulin, dexamethasone, thyroid hormone plus GH or prolactin, or the combination of all five hormones also failed to prevent the loss of estrogen receptors. Short-term cultures of rat hepatocytes, although retaining the liver-specific expression of ADH at the male level, lose GH-dependent expression of the estrogen receptor and stimulation of ADH activity.
4296320|The pseudostratified tracheal epithelium, composed of a heterogeneous phenotypically varying cell population, was studied with respect to the in vitro cell proliferative activity of differentiated epithelial cells. Ciliated tracheal epithelial cells so far have been considered to be terminally differentiated, nonproliferating cells. Tracheal organ cultures obtained from vitamin A-deprived Syrian Golden hamsters were cultured in a vitamin A-deficient, serum-free, hormone-supplemented medium. In vitamin A-deprived tracheal epithelium treated with physiologically active all-trans retinol and low cigarette-smoke condensate concentrations it is possible to stimulate the cell proliferation of both basal and columnar cells. Therefore, the probability of finding proliferating columnar cells was increased compared with the in vivo and the vitamin A-deprived situation in which cell proliferative activity is relatively low. In the presence of cigarette-smoke condensate in a noncytotoxic concentration, basal, small mucous granule, ciliated, and indifferent tracheal epithelial cells incorporated [methyPH]-thymidine into the DNA during the S phase. The finding that ciliated cells were labeled was supported by serial sections showing the same labeled ciliated cell in two section planes separated by 2 to
20171570|Induction of somatic embryogenesis refers to processes that initiate embryo-forming cellular activity. Competence of somatic tissues for embryo formation is measured by the number of somatic embryos produced following induction. Recent findings indicate that competence of wheat explants can be enhanced by treatments that alter hormone levels during differentiation of explants in vivo. Wheat spikes have been detached at anthesis and cultured with culms in detached-spike-culture medium. The addition of abscisic acid, indole-3-acetic acid or zeatin to the medium depresses embryogenic competence of immature-embryo explants (excised and cultured 11-13 days after anthesis) while deleting hormones from the medium enhances competence. Differentiation of somatic embryos is improved by exposing embryogenic cultures to conditions that simulate nutritional, hormonal and gas-phase conditions of ovules. In particular the lowering of oxygen availability to callus cultures promotes growth of embryogenic callus and suppresses growth of nonembryogenic callus. Finally procedures that simulate seed desiccation significantly increase germination percentages of somatic embryos of wheat.
4296092| Biosynthetic human epidermal growth factor (Bh-EGF) induced dose-dependent synthesis and secretion of neutral mucin glycoprotein when the fundal cells isolated from rabbit stomach were cultured in serum-free medium containing Bh-EGF at concentrations as high as 10 to 100 ng/ml. At these high concentrations, Bh-EGF had no effect on the cell growth. In marked contrast, much lower concentrations from 0.1 to 1.0 ng/ml of Bh-EGF failed to stimulate mucin synthesis, but enhanced proliferation of the cells. Electrophoretic pattern of the mucin secreted from the cultured mucosal cells was very similar to that of the authentic mucin obtained from rabbit stomach. Maximal secretion of the mucin from the cells was observed at Hour 96 of the culture. Although fetal bovine serum (5%) and insulin (0.5 g/ml) also stimulated the mucosal cells, both in growth and in mucin synthesis and release, the enhancing activity of the mucin synthesized and released by Bh-EGF at a concentration of 100 ng/ml per microgram DNA of cultured cells was far superior to that of 5% fetal bovine serum and 0.5 g/ml insulin. 
4296442|Normal human breast epithelial cells obtained from a reduction mammoplasty (S130) have been maintained in culture for up to a year in Ham's F12:Dulbecco's medium, with 5% equine serum and a low calcium concentration (0.04 mM). These cells undergo senescence and terminal differentiation if they are switched to high
20171371|Genetic factors controlling the differential expression of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration of maize from tissue culture were studied in two crosses. Inbred, hybrid, F2 and backcross generations developed from crossing maize inbred A188 with two commercially important inbred maize lines (B73 and Mo17) demonstrated genetic and environmental effects on somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration when immature zygotic embryos were cultured on MS medium. Additive gene effects were more important in both crosses than dominant gene effects for precent somatic embryogenesis and percent or number of plants regenerated per embryo when generation means were analyzed. In backcross generations of each cross, cytoplasmic, maternal and/or paternal effects were significant for frequency of somatic embryos three weeks after culture as well as frequency, or number of plants regenerated per embryo, nine weeks after culture. Analysis of genetic variances suggests at least one gene (or block of genes) controls the expression of the frequency of somatic embryogenesis in these crosses. Differences in somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration between B73 and Mo17 are discussed.
20171493| Proximal tubules were prepared from rat kidney cortex by collagenase digestion and purified by Percoll gradient centrifugation. Their enrichment was estimated by comparing the specific activities of various cell-specific enzymes in homogenates of renal cortex and of the isolated tubules. The tubules were cultured in a 50:50 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's and Ham's F12 media supplemented with insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, and prostaglandin E. After 2 to 3 d an extensive outgrowth of epithelial cells developed from the attached tubules. After 5 to 7 d near confluent monolayers were obtained. Hormonal responsiveness, marker enzyme activities, and transport properties were determined to further characterize the primary cultures. The cultured cells exhibited increased cyclic AMP production in response to parathyroid hormone but not calcitonin or vasopressin, consistent with the absence of cells derived from distal and collecting tubules. The cells also retained significant levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D-1-hydroxylase, alkaline phosphatase, and -glytamyl-transpeptidase, three enzymes that are primarily associated with the proximal tubule. The cultured epithelial cells also exhibit a Na-dependent phosphate and glucose transport systems. Therefore, the cells retain many functional properties that are characteristic of proximal tubules. Thus, the primary cultures should be suitable for the study of processes that occur specifically within this segment of the rat nephron. 
4296660|Infection of human gastrointestinal submucosal mesenchymal cells with HIV-1 led to cell populations with abnormal growth properties, increased synthesis of endothelial cell and angioblast markers, and release of angiogenic factors. This system may be the first in vitro model for HIV-induced Kaposi's sarcoma.
4296483|Epithelial cells from human fetal and adult gingiva were cultured in keratinocyte growth medium (KGM), a serum-free medium. The expression of keratin proteins in these cells was evaluated using immunohistochemistry and SDS-PAGE-immunoblot analysis and compared with expression in the tissue. Keratins 5, 6, 14, 16, and 19 were identified in cells cultured from both fetal and adult tissues. K19 was localized in basal cells of fetal oral tissue but was not seen in adult gingiva (except for scattered Merkel cells). K1 and K10 were expressed in tissue, but not in cultured cells. The keratin profiles of cultured epithelial cells from several adult donors were similar and were identical in cultures from primary through Passage 5. K13, a differentiation-specific keratin, was expressed in all suprabasal cells of fetal oral epithelium, but shows only spotty expression in adult gingival tissue. K13 was expressed in cultures of fetal cells, but very weakly or not at all in cultures of adult cells. K13 expression was greater in cultures grown with physiologic calcium concentrations (1.2 mM) than in those grown at 0.15 mM or less. Our findings are consistent with basal-like characters of these cells in 0.15 mM calcium growth conditions. Differentiation of fetal oral cells in culture to the suprabasal basal cell stage in 1.2 mM Ca<sup>2+</sup> is shown by the expressionof K13.
4295780|A whole-organ perfusion system was used to culture tracheas from adult Swiss mice and test this system's adaptability for use in adherence assays for virulent Bordetella pertussis. Culture medium and bacterial suspensions flowed readily through the tracheal lumen, ciliary activity was maintained throughout the culture period, and scanning electron microscopy revealed retention of normal surface morphology. The number of adherent colony-forming units (cfu) per trachea was determined for all three Bordetella species every 30 min over a 3.5-h incubation period and the resultant adherence patterns were reproducible. Adherent cfu were dependent on the concentration of microorganisms in the infecting inoculum. Bordetella pertussis did not demonstrate a preferential adherence to either the dorsal or ventral surface of the tracheal epithelium nor did it demonstrate a preference for adherence to the laryngeal or bronchial end of the trachea. Static growth conditions did alter the adherence pattern of B. pertussis from that observed when the organism was grown with constant agitation.
4296016|Objective, accurate, non-intrusive measurement of in vitro cell growth was realized through microcomputerized video image analysis. Recently-released video and digitizing hardware and software were incorporated into an analytical system which accurately quantified visual differences between cultures on a cell number or fresh mass basis. Sequential measurements during culture incubation further detected and quantified subtle changes in colony area and density resulting from growth. Each measurement was acquired rapidly, without encroaching on the in vitro environment, so cell growth was undisturbed. Custom software routines coordinated the quantification of this detailed record into precise cumulative growth curves.
20171478| The conditions for optimum incorporation of radioactive amino acids into proteins of cultured postimplantation mouse embryos were investigated under the aspect of using these proteins for two-dimensional electrophoretic separations and fluorography. The aim was to obtain highly radioactively labeled proteins under conditions as physiological as possible. Mouse embryos of Days 8, 10, and 11 of gestation were cultured in Tyrode's solution. Incubation time and concentration of [H (or C)]amino acids in the culture medium were varied over a broad range. Embryos were prepared with placenta and yolk sac or without any embryonic envelopes. After culturing, the physiologic-morphologic state of the embryos was registered on the basis of several criteria. The radioactivity taken up by the total protein of each embryo was determined and calculated in disintegrations per minute per milligram protein per embryo. To approach our aim, embryos of different developmental stages had to be cultured under different conditions. A good compromise for Day-8, Day-10, and Day-11 embryos was: embryos prepared with yolk sac (opened) and placenta, 150 Ci radioactive amino acids added per milliliter medium, incubation for 4 to 5 h. For maximum labeling of proteins it is advisable to culture Day-10 embryos without embryonic envelopes under particular conditions. 
4296245|Anther culture of the Easter Lily (Lilium longiflorum; 2n = 2x = 24) was attempted in ordefto evaluate its potential in generating haploids for the production of hybrid cultivars. The effects of genotype, temperature (low temperature treatment of buds and high temperature treatment of cultures), sucrose concentration and growth regulators were tested. The most important factors for callus induction were the genotype and the presence of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Pre-treatments at low or high temperature had no apparent effect, while high sucrose concentration was inhibitory. Callus was derived from 28 of the 108 genotypes tested and plants were regenerated. Phenotypic variations were observed among these regenerants. Somatic chromosome numbers were determined in 42 plants derived from 10 donor genotypes. Thirteen plants were diploid and 29 were mixoploid with chromosome numbers ranging from 11 to 26. Four of the mixoploid plants had a high proportion of cells with haploid chromosome numbers, particularly at early stages of development. Meiosis was examined in plants with flower buds. Most plants had 12 bivalents at Metaphase I, but also aneuploids were observed. Other irregularities included bridges and laggards at Anaphase I. The occurrence of high frequencies of haploid cells (up to 80%) in root tips suggests that some plants may be of gametic origin.
20171531| Production of antibodies against peptides or poorly antigenic proteins by conventional methods often requires either large quantities of the native immunogen or some chemical modification to increase their antigenicity. In this study an in vivo and in vitro immunization protocol has been used to generate monoclonal antibodies against the decapeptide luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). Two injections of 100 g of avian LHRH-I into BALB/c mice were given 7 d apart. Dissociated splenocytes were collected under sterile conditions. They were incubated with 100 g of the immunogen in 75-cm tissue culture flasks in thymocyte-conditioned media. After 5 to 8 d exposure to the antigen, splenocytes were fused with SP2/O myeloma cells by polyethylene glycol. The cells were plated into 24 wells and then incubated in hypoxanthine aminopterin and thymidine selective media. After 14 d an initial screening was done by enzyme immunoassay. The positive wells (6/24) were expanded into 96-well plates and rescreened. Selected lines were cloned out 3 times by limiting dilution and the most positive expanded for ascites production. The antibody was affinity purified in a protein A column. The antibody cross-reacted with LHRH-I and II but preferentially to LHRH-I, as shown by competitive assay. A hypothalamic extract from a mature chick showed a higher response than preparations from whole brain explants of 1-to 3-d posthatched chicks, mature quail, and mature mouse. 
4296932|Surface proteins were compared in endothelial cells (EC) obtained from bovine peripheral lung, pulmonary artery and vein, and dorsal aorta using sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Galactose-containing glycoproteins [molecular weight (M
4296234|Cells from mechanically dissociated postblastokinetic embryos of the rangeland grasshopper, Melanoplus sanguinipes, were seeded in Falcon Primaria culture dishes and monitored for attachment, growth, and differentiation. Various sonicated nutrient phospholipid combinations, including both natural complexes and specific synthetic lipid types, were tested on these embryonic tissues as supplements in combination with three serum-containing basal media. The combined use of Primaria culture vessels and lipid supplementation supported the growth of various epithelioid as Well as fibroblastoid and other cell types. Some cells became tightly associated into partially differentiated tissuelike growths that included networks of ducted tracheolarlike cells, ducted granular epithelioid cells, and networks and sheets of slowly contracting muscle cells. The tissue-associated cell types and two individually growing cell types (a plasmatocytoid or hemocytic cell and a peculiar black granule-containing cell) were serially subcultured from three to nine times in Primaria vessels. Tissues subcultured in standard plastic culture vessels were selected by this growth surface for fibroblastoid cell types or expressed a fibroblastoid morphology, or both, within 1 to 3 passages. The growth of cells bearing neuritelike and glialike processes was stimulated in the primary cultures by certain medium and lipid combinations, but these cell types were not subcultivable.
4296484|SV40 viruses bearing mutations at the carboxy-terminus of large T antigen exhibit a host-range phenotype: such viruses are able to grow in BSC monkey kidney cells at 37 C, but give at least 10 000-fold lower yields than wild type virus in BSC cells at 32 C or in CV1 monkey kidney cells at either temperature. The block to infection in the nonpermissive cell type occurs after the onset of viral DNA replication. Infectious progeny virions are produced at very low efficiency. Although capsid proteins are synthesized at decreased levels, this does not account for the magnitude of the defect. Presumably some step of virion assembly or maturation is affected in these mutants. We have previously reported that the viral agnogene product, a protein thought to be involved in viral assembly or release, fails to accumulate in CV1 cells infected with host-range mutants. In polyoma virus the middle T antigen plays a role in virion maturation by influencing the phosphorylation of capsid proteins. In this communication we show that host-range mutants fail to undergo productive infection of CV1 cells expressing middle T antigen. These mutants do form plaques on an agnoprotein-expressing cell line. However, the agnoprotein does not seem to act by correcting the mutational block but rather increases the efficiency of plaque formation.
4295747|Cerebrovascular endothelial cells from adult bovine brain were carried successfully in long-term, serial culture. Endothelial cells were obtained from the middle and anterior cerebral arteries and from capillaries isolated from grey matter of the cerebral cortex or caudate nucleus. Capillary cells were found to grow best in RPMI 1640 with 20% fetal bovine serum. They did not require tumor-conditioned medium or matrix-coated surfaces, although fibronectin was used to enhance the initial plating efficiency of the primary cultures. The same conditions were used to support satisfactory growth of arterial endothelial cells; however they did not grow as rapidly as the capillary cells. Retention of endothelial-specific characteristics were shown for capillary-derived cells carried up to Passage 28, arterial-derived cells up to Passage 11, and after frozen storage of both types of cultured cells. Cultures of both arterial and capillary cells stained positively for Factor VIII antigen, exhibited a nonthrombogenic surface, and produced prostacyclin in response to arachidonic acid. Arterial endothelial cells produced more prostacyclin than capillary endothelium. The capillary cells had a unique tendency to assume a ringlike morphology after subculture and sometimes formed capillarylike networks of cell cords in dense cultures. When cultured in a three-dimensional plasma clot, capillary and arterial endothelial cells, but none of the other cell types studied, organized into tubelike structures reminiscent of capillary formation in vivo. The availability of long-term cultures of cerebrovascular endothelial cells provides an opportunity to compare properties of arterial and capillary endothelium from the same tissue and to investigate such processes as angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier induction.
4295938|We examined whether endothelial cells derived from different blood vessels vary in their susceptibility to viral infection. Five common viral pathogens of humans (herpes simplex 1, measles, mumps, echo 9, and coxsackie B4 viruses) were evaluated for growth in endothelial cells derived from bovine fetal pulmonary artery, thoracic aorta, and vena cava. All five viruses replicated in each type of endothelial cell. There were apparent differences in the quantities of measles and mumps viruses produced in pulmonary artery endothelium compared with thoracic aorta and vena cava when endothelial cells were obtained from different animals. However, when pulmonary artery endothelial cells were compared with vena cava cells from the same animal, growth of each virus was similar in the two cell types. Four of the viruses replicated in the various endothelial cells without producing appreciable changes in cell morphology. These results indicate that endothelial cells from different blood vessels are equally susceptible to the human viruses evaluated, and that viral replication can occur without major alterations in cell morphology. Endothelial cells could serve as permissive cells permitting viruses to leave the circulation and initiate infection in adjacent tissues, including subendothelial smooth muscle cells.
4296599|Binding characteristics and effects of 3,5,-3'-triiodo-L-thyronine (T
20171569| A hybrid cell line was constructed by fusion of mouse L-cells with an NIH3T3 cell line derivative containing a hybrid gene consisting of the mouse immunoglobulin kappa (IgK) variable gene promoter linked to the Escherichia coli gpt gene. Such hybrids grew to a much higher density compared to either of the parental cell lines. The utility of this cell line as a host to express foreign genes was tested by the expression of TGF- cDNA using the cytomegalovirus promoter. The vector also contained the human dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene driven by SV40 early promoter, to allow for the amplification of the transfected gene. Initial transformants, selected at 100 nM methotrexate (MTX), were subsequently selected for resistance to a higher concentration of MTX (2 M). Such clones expressed an increased level of TGF- when compared to the initial transformants. Both the initial transformants and the clones with the amplified DHFR gene produced TGF- in an acid-activatable precursor form. This mouse hybrid host cell line also allowed the expression of foreign gene cloned in an eukaryotic expression vector with the mouse IgK variable region promoter and human growth hormone as the reporter gene, whereas such vectors did not function in CHO cells. The mouse hybrid cell line was also found to be capable of being used with a broad range of promoters. 
4296283|The endocytotic process in cultured human RPE cells was observed after 1 min, 20 min, and 2 h incubation with cationized ferritin. Within 1 min the ferritin particles were seen to attach to the cell membrane, especially between microvilli. Uncoated and coated pits could be recognized on the cell membranes, and uncoated and coated endocytotic vesicles were found in the cytoplasm after 20 min of incubation. These vesicles were surrounded by abundant microfilaments and had no visible membranes. Loss of membrane may be an initial step in the process of developing into the irregular clumps of ferritin particles found inside the plasma membrane. With time, more irregular clumps of ferritin, smaller than the particles introduced during incubation, appeared just beneath the cell membrane. Lysosomes were adjacent to the clumps of ferritin particles associated with microtubules and finally degraded these particles. The phagolysosomes containing many particles were surrounded by many microtubules. Small ferritin particles surrounded but had not entered the rough endoplasmic reticulums, and no particles were seen either around or in the Golgi apparatus.
4296631| Three human yolk sac carcinoma cell lines were characterized for the expression of several markers. Each of the cell lines expressed alpha-fetoprotein, without detectable levels of chorionic gonadotropin, and the level of alpha-fetoprotein expression increased dramatically when the cultures were held without passage for extended periods. The secretion of a number of plasma proteins was documented by metabolic labeling, immunoprecipitation, and gel analysis. The major plasma proteins detected were alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-fetoprotein, transthyretin, -2 microglobulin, and plasminogen, with lower levels of transferrin and complement C4 released. Apolipoproteins B, E, and A1 were secreted in high levels as well and were found in the form of lipoprotein particles. Time course experiments on the synthesis of apolipoproteins E and A1 indicated that, as with alpha-fetoprotein, the level of synthesis increased substantially when the cultures were held without passage. The results indicate that these yolk sac carcinoma cells display a protein expression profile similar to that observed for the human yolk sac, and the possibility that the cells may have the potential to differentiate is discussed. 
4296564|Ciliated cell cultures can be produced in outgrowths from explants of human respiratory epithelium. An image analysis technique was developed to quantify the percentage of active ciliated cells present in these cultures. The subtraction 2 by 2 of five successive video images of the cultures, followed by the addition of the resulting images, allowed the determination of the culture surface covered by ciliated cells. The percentage of this surface varied according to the region of the explant (27.7% in the outgrowth near the explant and 4.1% at the periphery of the outgrowth). High variations were observed within the same region of an outgrowth, as well as from one outgrowth to another. However, maximal differentiation was observed after 4 d of culture. The quantitation technique described in the present work might be useful for studying in vitro the respiratory epithelial injury and the subsequent repair processes.
4296980| The relative strengths of several commonly used viral promoters in primary cultures of rat mammary epithelial cells were studied using a particle bombardment gene transfer method. NIH 3T3 cells were also examined as a representative cell line. Initially, the conditions necessary for efficient gene transfer using particle bombardment were determined. Discharge voltage for particle bombardment was evaluated to maximize the levels of gene expression and cell viability. After transfection, transgene expression decreased over a 5-day period in both mammary cells and NIH 3T3 cells. Particle bombardment gene transfer was at least fivefold more efficient than lipofection, calcium phosphate co-precipitation, or electroporation. The activity of five viral enhancer/promoters was compared using a luciferase gene assay system. The relative promoter strengths in mammary cells were determined to be: RSV  CMV  SV40 > MLV > MMTV. Tissue-specific activity of the MMTV-LTR was demonstrated, although this promoter conferred the lowest expression level among the promoters tested. 
4296144|A new murine mammary tumor cell line (BALB/c-MC) was established from a spontaneous mammary tumor in a 17-mo.-old female mouse of the low mammary cancer strain BALB/cHe. The cell line was derived from a papillary adenocarcinoma. In monolayer culture the line exhibits a pavementlike arrangement of cells and forms "domes" or "hemicysts" as the cells become confluent. The cell line rapidly forms tumors when transplanted into young syngeneic BALB/cHe mice. The subcutaneous injection of 10
4296344|AT-3 cells, one of anaplastic cell lines established from the Dunning prostatic carcinoma of rats, were able to grow under serum-free conditions in a state of suspension detached from a substratum. Radioimmunoassay using monoclonal antibody against rat insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) revealed the presence of IGF-II-related peptide in acid-ethanol extracts of lyophilized serum-free media conditioned by AT-3 cells. The peptide contents in the culture media increased with increase in cell number; 71 ng at
4296085|Little is known concerning the biological factors that control the proliferation of the stem cells of the colonic mucosa. In part this is due to a lack of systems suitable for studying the proliferation of this mucosa in vitro. We describe a simple technique for the isolation of single viable intact crypts which are free of stroma and which can then be cultured for periods of at least 16 d using a collagen gel culture method. This method of crypt isolation was efficient with the mean yield of viable intact crypts being
4296316|The present investigation was undertaken to examine the usefulness of cultured human sweat duct cells for ion transport and related studies in the genetic disease, cystic fibrosis. Electrical properties of cultured duct (CD) cells were compared with electrical properties of microperfused duct (MPD) cells. The resting apical membrane potential (V
4296552|Cell suspensions prepared by collagenase digestion of pancreata obtained from 21.5-d-old rat fetuses were preincubated in RPMI medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), to ensure cell adhesion. Twenty hours later, this medium was replaced by a chemically defined medium. Dulbecco's modified Eagle's (DME)-F12 was used alone or supplemented with various combinations of transferrin, sodium selenite, or Ultroser G. The evolution of the culture and the islet ultrastructure were similar in defined and serum-containing media. However, in the defined medium, the neoformed islets seemed less numerous, and the fibroblast layer less dense, when compared to the RPMI + 10% FBS control medium. At Day 7, in defined media, the total insulin content per dish was half that of control cultures. None of the tested additives improved the yield of the cultures. The fractional insulin release per day was elevated in defined media. In subsequent incubations, glucose and leucine stimulated insulin release in a way characteristic of these cells of fetal origin. The labeling index of islet cells cultured in DME-F12 reached 10.7%, which is not far from that observed in RPMI + 10% FBS. Such a defined medium is useful to study B cell physiology, avoiding the possible interaction of serum components with substances to be tested.
4296514| The role of epithelial-mesenchymal interactions in the stimulation of lung development by estrogen is now investigated using organ cultures of lung from male and female fetal rats taken from Days 17 to 21 of gestation. Estradiol at 1 g/ml was found to reduce cell proliferation in explants taken during a rapid growth phase (Day 18) and to stimulate surfactant synthesis in both males and females only in Day 20 explants when cell division is much slower. At this time more epithelial cells from estrogen-treated explants contained lamellar bodies, which were also secreted to fill the air sacs. These cultures also showed a significant increase in the frequency of cell-to-cell contacts between epithelial cells and fibroblasts. Uptake of tritiated estradiol by explants increased from Day 18 onward, and by autoradiography, labeling was located predominantly over fibroblasts. Using pure cultures of fetal and adult cells, uptake of labeled estradiol was significantly higher in fibroblasts than in corresponding epithelial cells, and estradiol did not directly enhance palmitate incorporation into epithelial cells. The results suggest that the earlier maturation and increased surfactant synthesis in female fetal lung is related at least in part to enhanced binding of estrogen by the fibroblast with subsequent transfer of a maturation factor to the fetal epithelium. 
4296312| The growth rate of spontaneously transformed BALB/3T3 cells is proportional to glutamine concentration between 50 and 400 M, with little or no growth occurring in less than 50 M glutamine. By contrast, nontransformed BALB/3T3 cells multiply, although slowly, with as little as 20 M glutamine. Neither cell type depletes the medium of glutamine at the low concentrations. Cystine requirements of both cell types increase with serum concentration, probably due to the binding of half-cystine residues by the serum. Calf serum is a much more potent stimulator of cell multiplication than calf lymph, especially for the nontransformed cells. The rate of cell multiplication can be reduced by lowering the concentration of essential amino acids to the physiologic level found in body fluids, but the growth limitations can be fully compensated by simply raising the serum concentration. Growth factors may act by enhancing the utilization of amino acids, particularly of glutamine which is a required substrate for the first and chief regulatory steps of purine and pyrimidine synthesis. Lymph, which is coextensive with interstitial fluid in vivo, is poor in growth factors for the nontransformed BALB/3T3 cells as well as for recently explanted mouse embryo cells, which raises questions of how normal cell growth is maintained in the body. 
20171542|The locomotory behavior of fibroblasts in two-dimensional cultures (e.g., on culture dishes, cover slips, etc.) was first reported by Abercrombie's group. This paper describes some of the features of movement of fibroblasts in a unique culture system known as sail-sheet cultures (SSCs). Cells in SSCs grow mostly on one another in a three-dimensional from that resembles, to some extent, the in vivo situation. We grew chicken heart fibroblasts (CHFs) as SSCs and studied their locomotory behavior by time-lapse filming extended for periods ranging from 12 h to several days. It was found that CHFs grown as sail-sheets exhibit many features of movement as observed in conventional two-dimensional cultures (CCs). However, we observed that CHFs in SSCs, like those in vivo, lack leading lamella directing their movement. Furthermore, locomotion is significantly slower in SSCs than in CCs. Based on data on the movement of CHFs within the mesh holes of inert grids, we suggest that the mesenchymal cells in SSCs, in addition to their individual movement, move in sheets and that their movement in sheets results in the closure of the mesh holes, a situation that resembles the phenomenon of healing of wounds. Thus SSCs provide a model system for the study of healing of wounds. The presence of collagenlike extracellular matrix (CLECM) between cellular layers in SSCs suggests that CLECM may be involved in guiding the locomotory behavior of CHFs in SSCs.
20171471| We describe the in vitro influence of 3,5,3-triiodo-L-thyronine (T), L-thyroxine (T), a thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and/or estradiol (E: chosen as the control of the methodology) on the cell kinetics (cell distribution in the S+G+M phases) of mouse MXT and human MCF-7 mammary cancer cells. Experiments were performed by means of a cell image processor, analyzing MCF-7 or MXT cells that had been grown on glass cover slips and whose nuclei had been stained by the Feulgen reaction, which is selective and quantitative (stoichiometric) with respect to DNA. We show that T, T, and TSH at 0.01 M dramatically stimulate the cell kinetics of the MXT mouse and the MCF-7 human mammary cancer cell lines. Indeed, the three hormones bring about a significant transient increase in the S+G+M fraction as does E. Furthermore, our data indicate that E and TSH are antagonistic with regards to MXT or MCF-7 cell kinetics. 
4296957| Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-), an ubiquitous regulatory peptide, has diverse effects on the differentiation and behavior of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). However, the molecular mechanism through which TGF- exerts its effects remains obscure. We investigated the phosphoinositide/protein kinase C [PKC] signaling pathway in the action of TGF- on cultured embryonic avian VSMC of differing lineage: a) thoracic aorta, derived from the neural crest; and b) abdominal aorta, derived from mesenchyme. The second messenger responsible for activation of PKC is sn-l,2-diacylglycerol [DAG]; TGF- increased the mass amounts of DAG in the membranes of neural crest-derived VSMC concurrent with translocation of PKC from the soluble to the membrane fraction, but TGF- had no effect on the DAG or PKC of mesenchyme-derived VSMC. TGF- potentiated the growth of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-treated, neural crest-derived VSMC; but abolished PDGF-induced growth of mesenchymal cells. It is concluded that molecular and functional responses of VSMC to TGF- are heterogeneous and are functions of the embryonic lineage of the VSMC. 
4295857|NIH3T3 cells grow in a serum-free basal nutrient medium supplemented with fibronectin, transferrin, insulin, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and high density lipoprotein (HDL). The individual omission from the serum-free medium of insulin, EGF, or HDL results in greatly reduced cell growth. These growth-restrictive conditions can be used to select for cells transformed with SV40, the polyomavirus middle T antigen gene, the activated human ras gene, and the mouse c-myc gene.
4296193|Highly contractile skeletal myotubes differentiated in tissue culture are normally difficult to maintain on collagen-coated tissue culture dishes for extended periods because of their propensity to detach as a sheet of cells from their substratum. This detachment results in the release of mechanical tension in the growing cell "sheet" and, consequently, loss of cellular protein. We developed a simple method of culturing high density contractile primary avian myotubes embedded in a collagen gel matrix (collagel) attached to either a stainless steel mesh or nylon support structure. With this system the cells are maintained in a highly contractile state for extended periods in vitro under tension. Structural integrity of the myotubes can be maintained for up to 10 d in basal medium without serum or embryo extract. Total cellular protein and myosin heavy chain accumulation in the cells can be maintained for weeks at levels which are two to three times those found in time-matched controls that are under little tension. Morphologically, the myotubes are well differentiated with structural characteristics of neonatal myofibers. This new collagel culture system should prove useful in the analysis of in vitro gene expression during myotube to myofiber differentiation and its regulation by various environmental factors such as medium growth factors, innervation, and mechanical activity.
4296865| A pSV3neo-transfected rat ovarian cell line (SV-GC) was developed from a primary granulosa culture (GC) to study gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) during Simian virus 40 (SV40) transformation. SV-GC expressed SV40 large T-antigen (T-ag), grew indefinitely in culture without luteinization, was anchorage independent, and formed tumors in nude mice. Ultrastructural analysis identified abundant gap junctional membrane and suggested that SV-GC was arrested at an early stage of differentiation. Functional GJIC, measured by a dye transfer technique (gap FRAP), was comparable to that observed in normal granulosa cells, suggesting that the expression of T-ag alone was insufficient to reduce GJIC. However, there was approximately a 50% loss in the rate of GJIC in the nude mouse SV-GC-tumor derived and G418 selected cell line (T-SV-GC). SV-GC  T-SV-GC also resulted in a transition from migration of cells as an epithelial sheet to the dissociation of individual fibroblastoid cells. Tumor cell detachment was also seen in migrating malignant human (A2780 and 547) and rat (DC3) ovarian cell lines. Co-culture combinations of normal (GC)  transformed (SV-GC)  tumor-derived (T-SV-GC) cells indicated that the rate of heterologous GJIC was characteristic of the least communicating partner. Taken together, these data suggested that SV-GC  T-SV-GC represented progression toward metastasis with concomitant reduction of GJIC and adhesiveness. These sequentially derived cell lines may be a useful in vitro model system for studies focusing on the mechanisms involved in the detachment of cells during the progression of ovarian cancer. 
20171380| The effect of 17-estradiol (E) on growth of GHC rat pituitary tumor cells was investigated under serum-free conditions and with medium containing charcoal-extracted serum. Serum-free TRM-1 medium was a 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of F12-DME supplemented with 50 g/ml gentamicin, 15 mM 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid, 10 g/ml insulin, 10 g/ml transferrin, 10 ng/ml selenous acid, 10 nM 3,5,3-triiodothyronine (T), 50 M ethanolamine, and 500 g/ml bovine serum albumin. The cells grew continuously in TRM-1 but were E responsive only when growth was retarded by reducing the T concentration to 10 pM (TRM-MOD). Addition of 1 to 10 nM E to TRM-MOD increased growth by 0.3 to 0.9 cell population doublings over controls in 9 d. By using medium supplemented with charcoal-extracted sera, basal growth became 1 to 1.5 cell population doublings in 9 d. Addition of 0.1 pM E to medium containing charcoal-extracted serum caused a significant increase in cell number whereas pM-nM concentrations stimulated 200 to 570% increases over controls. The effect of steroid hormone was the same in phenol-red-containing and indicator-free medium. The data presented confirm that the major requirements for demonstration of estrogenic effects in culture were optimum concentrations of thyroid hormones and the presence of yet-to-be-characterized serum factors. 
4295744|Human livers were removed at immediate autopsy (IA) from brain death patients within 1 h after cessation of cardiac function. Viable hepatocytes were isolated successfully from these IA livers by perfusion of an intack lobe with collagenase or by digestion of a small tissue wedge with collagenase-dispase. The yields of hepatocytes ranged from 1 to
20171527|A culture system utilizing rat esophageal epithelial cells has been developed. Four normal and eight N-nitrosobenzylmethylamine-treated lines were compared with respect to chromosome number, anchorage-independent growth in agarose, and tumorigenic potential in syngeneic rats. All cell lines were aneuploid with nine in the near-tetraploid range and three in the near-diploid range. No relation between tumorigenic potential and chromosome number or structure was apparent. Similarly, anchorage-independent growth in agarose did not correlate with tumorigenic potential. Three of the 12 immortalized lines (two carcinogen-treated and 1 untreated) induced well-differentiated squamous cell carcinomas in syngeneic rats. These tumors had weak metastatic potentials suggesting that tumorigenic potential and metastatic ability are separately controlled. These cell lines will be useful for the investigation of factors involved in the conversion of immortalized rat esophageal epithelial cell lines to lines of high metastatic potential.
4296940|Cultured mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells are used for both in vitro and in vivo studies. The uncommitted pluripotent cells provide a model system with which to study cellular differentiation and development; they can also be used as vectors to carry specific mutations into the mouse genome by homologous recombination. To ensure successful integration into the germ line, competent totipotent diploid ES cell lines are selected using a cell injection bioassay that is both time consuming and technically demanding. The prolonged in vitro culture of rapidly dividing ES cells can lead to accumulated changes and chromosomal abnormalities that will compromise the biological function and abrogate germ line transmission of chimeric mice carrying novel genetic mutations. Such in vitro conditions will vary between individual laboratories; for example, differences in the serums used for maintenance. Using a number of different criteria we attempt in this paper to define the parameters that we found to be key factors for optimization of the biological potential of established ES cell lines. The successful integration into the germ line is dependant on acquiring or deriving a competent totipotent mouse ES diploid cell line. In this paper parameters and criteria are defined which we found to be key factors for the optimization of the biological potential of established ES cell lines.
4296633|Interactions between pachytene spermatocytes and Sertoli cells were investigated using the bicameral culture chamber system. Pachytene spermatocytes were isolated from adult rats with a purity in excess of 90% by centrifugal elutriation. The pachytene spermatocytes were cultured in a defined media and pachytene spermatocyte protein prepared from the conditioned media by dialysis and lyophilization. This pachytene spermatocyte protein was reconstituted at various concentrations and incubated with confluent epithelial sheets of immature Sertoli cells cultured in bicameral chambers. Pachytene spermatocyte protein stimulated secretion of total
4296351| Cross-culture contamination of cell lines propagated in continuous culture is a frequent event and particularly difficult to resolve in cells expressing similar phenotypes. We demonstrate that DNA-DNA hybridization to blotted endonuclease-digested cell DNA effectively detects cross-culture contamination to monitor inter-species as well as intra-species cross contamination. An insulin-producing cell-line, Clone-16, originally cloned from a human fetal endocrine pancreatic cell line did not produce human c-peptide as anticipated. DNA from these cells showed no hybridization to the human ALU sequence probe, BLUR, and lacked restriction fragment length polymorphism typical for the human HLA-DQ -chain gene. Although a human insulin gene probe showed a weak, nonhuman hybridization pattern, a cDNA probe for the Syrian hamster insulin gene hybridized strongly consistent with a single copy hamster insulin gene. Karyotyping confirmed the absence of human chromosomes in the Clone-16 cells while sizes, centromere indices, and banding patterns were identical to Syrian hamster fibroblasts. We conclude that the insulin-producing Clone-16 cells are of Syrian hamster origin and demonstrate the effective use of gene probes to control the origin of cell cultures. 
4296020|Sodium butyrate, at millimolar concentrations, seems to mediate or initiate multiple effects on many mammalian cells in culture. Although many transformed cell lines respond to butyrate treatment with acquisition of normal cellular characteristics, the effect of butyrate on a normal cell type, the parenchymal hepatocyte, has not been studied. Serum-free primary cultures of adult rat hepatocytes maintain many adult characteristics, yet after several days in culture a loss of adult characteristics occurs while fetal characteristics are often reexpressed. Therefore, we investigated whether butyrate treatment would improve the morphologic and biochemical characteristics of cultured hepatocytes. Exposure to 5 mM butyrate for 3 d did not affect hepatocyte viability or morphology but retarded the progressive decline in cytochrome P-450 levels and 5'-nucleotidase activity. The spontaneous increase in alkaline phosphatase activity was reduced and the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase was inhibited after 3 d in culture. The fetal liver characteristic, gamma glutamyltranspeptidase, was not affected by butyrate treatment. Results of this study suggest that butyrate represents a nontoxic compound capable of improving the maintenance of cell culture characteristics of adult rat hepatocytes.
4296598|Cultures of normal human tracheal gland epithelial cells that exhibit functional differentiation have been propagated in serum-free medium supplemented with insulin (
4296460|We have developed an in vitro model of human papillary collecting duct cells isolated from cadaver kidneys using methods similar to those we previously reported for the isolation of human proximal tubule cells. To date we have isolated papillary collecting duct cells from 100 normal human kidneys. Papillae were dissected and digested in Cellgro containing 400 U/ml collagenase. Cells were plated on fibronectin-coated culture flasks at a density of 10
4296656|The leukemia-associated antigen CD9 is present on a variety of normal cells, with apparent variable expression on normal human fibroblasts. In this study, we demonstrate by immunoperoxidase staining and direct binding studies that the CD9 antigen is uniformly expressed on normal human fibroblasts grown from first trimester and term placenta, embryonic fetal fibroblasts, and from human adult and fetal skin fibroblasts. Higher CD9 expression was present on fetal cells. CD9 antigen was not present on trophoblast. Over 99% of fibroblasts could be absorbed onto antibody to the CD9 antigen conjugated to magnetic beads. By applying this selective immunoadsorption of fibroblasts to term placental cytotrophoblast preparations, we demonstrated that fibroblast contamination could be nearly completely eliminated. This is a novel technique for purifying primary trophoblast cultures and may have wider applicability in cell culture of other cell types.
4296271| A tissue culture system has been developed which can mechanically stimulate cells growing on a highly elastic plastic substratum in a 24-well cell growth chamber. The collagen-coated substratum to which the cells attach and grow in the Mechanical Cell Stimulator (Model I) can be repetitively stretched and relaxed by stepper motor with linear accuracy of 30 m. The activity controlling unit is an Apple He computer interfaced with the cell growth chamber via optical data links and is capable of simulating many of the mechanical activity patterns that cells are subjected to in vivo. Primary avian skeletal myoblasts proliferate and fuse into multinucleated myotubes in this set-up in a manner similar to normal tissue culture dishes. Under static culture conditions, the muscle cells differentiate into networks of myotubes which show little orientation. Growing the proliferating muscle cells on a unidirectional stretching substratum causes the developing myotubes to orient parallel to the direction of movement. In contrast, growing the cells on a substratum undergoing continuous stretch-relaxation cycling orients the developing myotubes perpendicular to the direction of movement. Neither type of mechanical activity significantly affects the rate of cell proliferation or the rate of myoblast fusion into myotubes. These results indicate that during in vivo skeletal muscle organogenesis, when substantial mechanical stresses are placed on skeletal muscle cells by both continuous bone elongation and by spontaneous contractions, only bone elongation plays a significant role in proper fiber orientation for subsequent functional work. 
4295914|F9 cells maintained in culture were shown to have a reduced ability to differentiate. The cells produced decreased amounts of alphafetoprotein when induced with retinoic acid. We show that consistent responses can be recovered after passage of F9 cells as a tumor. In addition, optimal differentiation of F9 cells to visceral endoderm may be achieved by the addition of very low concentrations of dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP) to the medium.
20171562|Dispersed testicular cells prepared from 14-d-old rats were cultured on type 1 collagen gels using a medium composed of a 1:1 mixture of Ham's F12 medium and Leibovitz's L15 medium (F12-L15 medium) containing 10% (vol/vol) fetal bovine serum. The viability of the spermatogenic cells was facilitated by supplementing a rat adrenal extract into the medium. The effective substance(s) (the survival factor) was purified from acid extracts of adrenals by molecular sieve high performance liquid chromatography and identified as epinephrine and norepinephrine. Both epinephrine and norepinephrine promoted the survival of the spermatogenic cells with a half saturating dose of 10 ng/ml. The spermatogenic cells, which could be cultured for 2 wk on a collagen gel by supplementing with the survival factor (epinephrine or norepinephrine), were subjected to Giemsa staining and to DNA flow cytometry. The following results were obtained: a) The spermatogenic cells from 14-d-old rats did not contain spermiogenic cells (1c-cells). b) During a culture period of 2 to 7 d the ratio of meiotic prophase spermatocytes (4c-cells) to premeiotic cells (2c-cells) increased. On Day 7, more than 90% of the surviving cells were meiotic prophase spermatocytes. c) On Day 10, spermatids (1c-cells) appeared for the first time. The time of the first appearance of spermatids in the culture was consistent with that in vivo. These results suggest that both epinephrine and norepinephrine facilitated the viability of meiotic prophase spermatocytes and that a part of the meiotic prophase spermatocytes completed the meiotic divisions in the testicular cell culture.
4295786|Porous hydroxyapatite ceramic granules (diameter 0.5-1 mm) provide an excellent in vitro matrix for cell growth. Canine chondrocytes maintained their collagen (Type II) phenotype up to 11 mo when cultured on these granules. Chondrocytes proliferated throughout the 13 mo of culture. Cells divided and added on to form multilayers around each ceramic granule. By the end of 11 mo, some layers were thicker than the diameter of the granules. Cell number per culture dish increased 240-fold over the original number of cells seeded in 8 mo of culture. Morphologically, chondrocytes remained spherical and formed cohesive multilayers as early as 1 wk. Metachrometric extracellular matrix was evident by the first week and increased through the 13 mo period.
4296485|The present study deals with a rapid and convenient assay for blood-brain barrier (BBB(-associated enzymes, -glutamyl transpeptidase (-GTP) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP), in cultured endothelial cells and other cells. These enzyme activities in cultured cells could be efficiently measured by direct incubation of each substrate in the culture plates without pretreatment of the cells. This new direct in situ-in plate assay was more rapid and convenient than conventional ex-plate assays, and these assays gave similar values for specific enzyme activities. -GTP and ALP activities could be detected by this in situ method in primary-cultured endothelial cells of porcine brain microvessels, but their levels were lower than those before culture. The degree of loss due to culture differed between -GTP and ALP; a relatively large amount of ALP remained but the -GTP level decreased greatly. In this direct in situ-in plate assay, cultured porcine aortic endothelial cells exhibited negligibly small activities for both enzymes, whereas cultured astroglial cells of neonatal porcine brain showed moderate -GTP activity and a trace of ALP activity. This direct in situ-in plate assay can be used for microculture and automatic measurement and offers a convenient means for studying the possible regulatory mechanisms of the expression of the BBB-associated enzymes.
4296251|Isolated rat hepatocytes maintained in primary culture on gas permeable membrane for 20 h form monolayers and establish at their cell borders a network of canaliculi (approximate diameter
4295913|A new feline lymphoma-derived cell line, designated BKD, was isolated from an anterior mediastinal tumor. Cells of this line were characterized as lymphoid based on morphology, the lack of intracellular esterase and peroxidase activity, and absence of phagocytic function. In contrast with other established feline lymphoma-derived cell lines, cells of the BKD line lack characteristics of both feline T-cells and B-cells in that they neither form rosettes with guinea pig erythrocytes nor have demonstrable surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulin. Approximately one third of BKD cells form EAC rosettes, a significant number of rosette forming cells (p = 0.0001) when compared to background sheep E-rosetting activity. In addition, a consistently titratable level of interleukin-2-like activity was produced when BKD cells were coincubated with concanavalin A and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate. Chromosome analysis showed that a majority of BKD cells are diploid. This new cell line has been continuously replicating in culture for over one year and produces feline leukemia virus as demonstrated by several analyses.
4295887|To date, the small size and slow growth of eosinophil colonies in vitro has hampered study of cloned eosinophils. We found enhanced eosinophil colony size and numbers in methylcellulose cultures of bone marrow cells utilizing defined supplemented bovine calf serum (DSBCS) in combination with EL4 conditioned medium (EL4-CM). At days 9, 16 and 23 significantly more eosinophil colonies and more cells/colony were present in cultures incubated with DSBCS/EL4-CM than in cultures incubated with fetal calf serum/EL4-CM. The ability to generate large numbers of eosinophils in vitro should facilitate study of cloned eosinophils.
4296977|Explants and dissociated cells from normal adult spinal cord and regenerating cord of the teleost Apteronotus albifrons were grown in vitro for periods of 8 to 12 wk. During this time the neurons showed extensive neurite outgrowth. Neurite outgrowth from tissue explants and dissociated cells of regenerated spinal cord starts sooner and is more profuse than that from normal (unregenerated) cord. Neurite outgrowth is maximized by using adhesive substrata and a high density of explants or dissociated cells. Inasmuch as Apteronotus does regenerate its spinal cord naturally after injury, whereas mammals do not, this culture system will be useful to study factors that control (permit) regeneration of spinal neurons in this adult vertebrate.
4296121|Using both normal and transformed rat liver epithelial cells to prepare cytoplasmic hybrids (cybrids) we have found evidence to support the theory that the cytoplasm from a normal cell can suppress tumorigenicity. A unique aspect of this study is that all of the cells utilized, both normal and malignantly transformed, were derived from an original cloned cell. We found that fusing cytoplasts from normal cells to malignantly transformed whole cells resulted in cybrid clones which, when injected into newborn rat pups, isogenic with those from which the cell culture was initiated, yielded tumors in 51% of the animals injected compared to 92% of the animals injected with the tumorigenic parent. Those animals that did develop tumors from the cybrid cells survived longer than those injected with cells from the tumorigenic parent. Thus, the cybrid, formed of cytoplasm from both parents, was less tumorigenic than the malignantly transformed parent cell. When reconstituted cells were prepared by fusing cytoplasts from normal cells with karyoplasts from malignantly transformed cells, a situation in which essentially all of the cytoplasm of the reconstituted cell is derived from normal cells, the tumorigenic phenotype was extinguished.
4295951|Acinar-intercalated duct complexes dissociated from rat submandibular glands have been shown to be an excellent model for studying secretory responses of salivary gland components. However, they are functionally normal for only a few hours. We undertook a systematic manipulation of primary culture conditions in an attempt to extend the useful life of the complexes. The major modifications that were tested were increased oxygenation in increments to 95%; substitution of norepinephrine or carbamylcholine or both for isoproterenol in the medium; different sources of collagen for and addition of laminin, fibronectin and/or type IV collagen to the matrix gel; and varying the thickness of the collagen gel, richness of the cell suspension inoculate, and sources and concentrations of sera in the medium. Progress was monitored by light microscopic evaluation of routine sections of specimens until improved maintenance of acinar and other cells warranted carrying parallel cultures for biochemical, histochemical, and ultrastructural analyses. Best results were obtained with
4296187|We used an in vitro fertilization system to examine the effects of postovulatory oocyte age on nondisjunction at the second meiotic division. After ovulatory-inducing injections of hormone, we recovered mouse oocytes either at the estimated time of ovulation (controls) or 2, 4, 5, 10, or 14 h later. Oocytes were subjected to an in vitro fertilization procedure, and chromosomal preparations were made from first cleavage metaphase eggs. The first cleavage assay reveals morphologically distinguishable paternal and maternal chromosomes. Many of the aged oocytes were activated rather than fertilized by the in vitro procedure, but could still be analyzed for nondisjunction. We found a tendency toward retention of the second polar body after 10 and 14 h aging. A total of 488 maternal genomes, 290 of which were in the control group, were analyzable for nondisjunction. Seven hyperhaploid genomes (2.4%) were observed in the controls and 6 (3.0%) in the combined aged group. The difference between these two frequencies is not significant (
4296473| Previous studies have shown that cell density can regulate the binding of several growth factors. To determine whether cell density exerts a uniform effect on the expression of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors, seven cell lines were examined in detail. For each cell line, EGF binding was found to decrease as cell density increases. Scatchard analysis of the binding data reveals that decreases in EGF binding are due to reductions in the number of cell surface EGF receptors. The only apparent exception is the effect of cell density on the binding of EGF to A-431 cells. For these cells, increases in cell density lead to two effects: decreases in the number of high affinity EGF receptors and increases in the total number of EGF receptors. In addition to the effects of cell density on EGF receptors, it was determined that increases in cell density can coordinately down-regulate receptors for as many as four different growth factors. Overall, the findings described in this report for EGF and those previously described for transforming growth factor type- (TGF-) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) demonstrate the existence of a common mechanism for down-regulating growth factor receptors. 
4296668|A panel of rat colon adenocarcinoma cell lines (the Per series) were used to investigate the phenotype and karyotype changes induced by in vivo passage in the subcutis of athymic nude mice. One poorly and one well-differentiated tumor cell line were serially passaged through the athymic nude mouse and then back to the syngeneic rat host. Each of the primary and xenograft cell lines expressed fetal crypt cell ("CaCo") antigens. The well differentiated primary and xenograft lines (Per305, Per305Nl, and Per305N2a) were different in each of their growth factor reponsiveness in vitro [i.e. epidermal growth factor (EGF), bombesin, vasoactive intestinal peptide], their EGF receptor expression, their secretion of transforming growth factor-a, and their exhibition of anchorage independent (A-I) growth capabilities. The poorly differentiated primary and xenograft cell lines were also different but were all capable of A-I growth; their responsiveness to exogenous growth factor stimulation decreased with progressive in vivo passage, as did their basal unstimulated proliferation rate. Cytogenetic alterations detected were those associated with clinical specimens from various stages of malignancy, i. e. aneuploidy, structural aberrations, and marker chromosomes. Genetic and mitogenic individuality of each line demonstrated the diversity of the growth control mechanisms in neoplasms at different stages of progression.
4295910| The tumor promotor 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) was examined for its ability to induce endogenous retrovirus from a high-passage clone of Kirsten sarcoma virus-transformed Balb/c (K-Balb) mouse cells. TPA activated virus in a concentration-dependent manner (0.0016 to 4.0 M). Exposure to 1mM actinomycin D inhibited virus induction, suggesting that cellular RNA synthesis is required de novo by this inducer. A broad-spectrum neutralizing antibody to murine type C virus, gp70, was shown to neutralize the infectivity of the induced virus. The activated virus had the host range of the xenotropic Balb virus:2, and after removal of the inducer, the activated state decayed rapidly. TPA stimulated DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis in K-Balb cells, indicating that the mechanism of induction may be different from that of previously identified virus inducers. The effects observed using the well-defined K-Balb system offer an opportunity to study the modulation of retrovirus gene expression by TPA. 
20171446|Thirty-five years ago Honor Fell and Edward Mellanby were studying effects of high doses of vitamin A on skeletal development in chick embryos when they noticed that a piece of epidermis, accidentally included in an organ culture, had undergone mucous metaplasia. Further studies by Fell and others eventually led to an understanding of the important role of vitamin A in modulating epithelia in vivo. Fifteen years later another organ culture experiment showed me that excess vitamin A could also initiate the morphogenesis of branching and mucus-secreting glands from developing vibrissa follicles in upper lip skin of embryonic mice. Since then our group has shown that induction of this novel structure by naturally occurring retinoids resembles a normal embryonic induction in that it is stage-dependent, time-dependent, and irreversible. Tissue separation and recombination studies showed that isolated upper lip epidermis can form these glands when combined with retinoid-treated upper lip dermis. Untreated mouse epidermis can form similar glands after combination with chick dermis containing higher retinoid levels. The hamster cheek pouch, normally devoid of glandular structures, can also form mucous glands when treated with a retinoid, either in vivo or in vitro. Recombination studies in organ culture have now shown that mesenchyme exposed to retinoid is essential for gland morphogenesis from pouch epithelium. Evidence is accumulating that retinoic acid may even be the active morphogen in some normally developing systems.
4296863|The distributions of acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) and basic FGF (bFGF) in extracts of various cultured mammalian cells were determined from their elution profiles on heparin-affinity chromatography, and assay of activity as ability to stimulate DNA synthesis in BALB/c3T3 cells. Only aFGF was found in extracts of mouse melanoma B 16 cell and rat Morris hepatoma cell (
4296754|We investigated the regulation of expression of bFGF and aFGF in cultures of normal human dermal fibroblasts grown in a defined, serum-free medium which did not contain FGF. Under these conditions we detected three molecular weight forms of bFGF protein [18.0, 23.0, and 26.6 kiloDaltons (kD)] and three molecular weight forms of aFGF protein (18.4, 19.2, and 28.6 kD) in these cells using western blot analysis. The addition of fetal bovine serum (FBS) to these cultures caused an accumulation of all three molecular weight forms of bFGF protein with a more dramatic accumulation of the 23.0 and 26.6 kD forms. In contrast, the addition of FBS to the cultures had no effect on the level of aFGF proteins. Analysis of mRNA isolated from cells grown in serum-free medium revealed multiple species of both bFGF and aFGF RNA with molecular weights that correlated with our previous observations. The abundance of all bFGF mRNA species increased dramatically after serum treatment while the abundance of aFGF mRNA species increased only slightly. Our observations demonstrate that factor(s) present in FBS elevate the levels of bFGF mRNA and protein beyond the levels already present in the cultures growing in serum-free medium. Moreover, both bFGF and aFGF protein are present in these cells as multiple molecular weight species. Some of these forms are higher in apparent molecular weight than would be predicted from ATG-initiated primary translation products of these genes. We also show that the cells used for this study proliferate in response to bFGF and aFGF, thus, it is possible that the growth of these cells could be subject to autocrine/paracrine control in certain conditions.
4296487|Rabbit 1-cell embryos were co-cultured with rabbit oviduct epithelial cells (ROEC) to determine if ROEC can enhance embryo development in vitro. Primary ROEC were cultured in serum-free media at <tex-math>$39\textdegree C$</tex-math> in a 5% CO<sub>2</sub>:95% air environment. In experiment 1, 1-cell embryos were co-cultured in Ham's F10 with freshly collected or 4-d-old cultures of ROEC seeded in plastic culture wells or on collagen membranes. One-cell embryos cultured without ROEC served as controls. After 65 h in culture, embryos were stained with Hoechst 33342 to determine the number of cells per embryo. Cell numbers were higher (P < 0.035) in all co-culture treatments when compared to controls. Optimal development was obtained by co-culture with 4-d-old ROEC grown on plastic (P < 0.003). In experiment 2, Ham's F10, Medium 199, and CZB with glucose medium were compared for their ability to support embryo development in the presence or absence of 4-d-old ROEC grown on plastic. Cell number and the percentage of embryos becoming blastocysts were significantly (P < 0.002) higher for embryos cultured in Medium 199 compared to the other media tested. In Medium 199, co-culture with ROEC resulted in only a slight, nonsignificant increase in cell number over culture in Medium 199 alone (110 vs. 96 cells). However, the percentage of embryos reaching the blastocyst stage when co-cultured in Medium 199 with ROEC (49%) was nearly twice (P = 0.01) that of embryos in Medium 199 without ROEC (26%). In experiment 3, transfer of embryos cultured in Medium 199 with or without ROEC fo 24 or 48 h resulted in no significant differences in posttransfer development. These data indicate a beneficial effect of ROEC on blastogenesis and a salvage effect of ROEC on cell proliferation in embryos grown in a less supportive medium such as Ham's F10.
4296042| We have identified a major mouse milk protein as transferrin (Tf) using immunoprecipitation, 2-dimensional electrophoresis, Ouchterlony diffusion and V-8 protease digests. We show that Tf is synthesized by mammary epithelial cells themselves and that its synthesis and secretion is regulated distinctly from that of other milk proteins. In culture, the kinetics of Tf synthesis and secretion are distinct from that of -casein; furthermore, Tf is relatively insensitive to lactogenic hormones whereas -casein is hormone-dependent. In vivo, however, Tf is regulated by pregnancy. While the virgin gland produces small amounts of Tf, its production is greatly increased during pregnancy and lactation. Thus, Tf synthesis in the mammary gland is modulated by as yet unknown factors in vivo. These observations are discussed in terms of Tf's possible role in mammary gland growth, differentiation and function. 
4296808|Using in situ hybridization and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) cDNA probes labeled with horseradish peroxidase, PDGF-A and -B (c-cis proto-oncogene) mRNA transcripts were identified and localized in proliferating cultures. A human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell line and a glial cell line were treated with either transforming growth factor beta-1 (
4296303|Somatic embryos from four soybean cultivars were matured for 30 and 45 d. Success of embryo germination was evaluated for each length of maturation. The percentage of somatic embryos undergoing successful germination, as defined by rooting and shoot emergence, was greater for embryos matured 45 d than for embryos matured 30 d. Therefore, embryos matured for 45 d are probably physiologically more mature than embryos matured for 30 d. Relative percentages of fatty acids comprising oils and lipids of somatic embryos were determined for each length of maturation and for each cultivar. Variation in relative percentages of palmitic acid, oleic acid, and linoleic acid was affected by length of maturation. However, these changes were genotype dependent. A significant interaction between the cultivars Clark and Maple Arrow and stage of maturation was observed for levels of oleic acid. No other interactions were observed. These data suggest that if changes in relative percentages of certain fatty acids are associated with soybean somatic embryo maturation the changes are genotype dependent.
4295928|The growth of WI-38 cells in serum-free growth medium with and without hormone supplementation in the presence of elevated Ca
4296463|A culture system for adult rat cardiac muscle cells has been established without exposure of cells to serum at any step of the procedure. The methodology has been standardized and optimized to obtain better quality and high yield of cells and culture. Subsequent to enzyme perfusion, the release of myocytes from enzyme-perfused tissues was carried out in enzyme-free Joklik's medium instead of exposing cells to proteolytic enzyme(s) as done previously. Approximately 5 million cylindrical muscle cells per ventricle were obtained. The culture medium contained Eagle's minimum essential medium with Earle's salts, basic fibroblast growth factor, epidermal growth factor, insulin, transferrin, selenium, norepinephrine, triiodothyronine (T
4296360|An endothelial cell glycoprotein that inhibits the initiation of the coagulation process promoted by tissue factor has been isolated by heparin-sepharose, hydroxyapatite and gel filtration chromatography. As is the case for several other species synthesized by this cell type, the N-linked carbohydrate moiety is sulfated. The identification of this inhibitor hints at the possible existence of a functional balance, between the activator of the coagulation cascade and its inhibitor, which may become perturbed in various pathophysiological conditions.
4296590| Novel or modified serum-free media were developed for the anchorage-dependent growth of nontransformed murine mammary epithelial cells (MMEC) and Balb/MK murine keratinocytes respectively. Growth rates for both cell lines were similar in serum-containing and serum-free media. The serum-free media were used to evaluate potential mechanisms of epithelial cell growth regulation by type 1 transforming growth factor  (TGF-l). The growth of MMEC and Balb/MK cells was reversibly inhibited 40-65% in a time- and dose-dependent fashion by TGF-l under both serum-containing and serum-free conditions. Constitutive over-expression of a transfected c-myc oncogene in MMEC did not result in loss of sensitivity to growth inhibition by TGF-l. In addition, Balb/MK and MMEC growth inhibition by TGF-l was not potentiated by polyunsaturated fatty acids or reversed by vitamin E. Exogenous type V collagen was able to mimic the inhibitory effects of TGF-1 on the serum-free growth of Balb/MK and MMEC. In contrast, collagen types I and IV, fibronectin and laminin did not inhibit the growth of these cells. The type V collagen used was not contaminated with TGF-, and subsaturating, but not saturating concentrations of type V collagen and TGF-l were additive with respect to Balb/MK and MMEC growth inhibition. These results demonstrate that nontransformed epithelial cell growth inhibition by TGF-1 is mediated by mechanisms distinct from those observed with certain carcinoma and melanoma cells. Our results also suggest the possible involvement of type V collagen in Balb/MK and MMEC growth inhibition by TGF-1. 
4296546|Pharyngeal explants and circulatory hemocytes from the tunicate Styela clava were cultured in a medium containing tunicate plasma, artificial seawater, RPMI 1640, and antibiotics. Pharyngeal tissue remained viable and proliferated for up to 72 d in vitro. Proliferative activity maintained the pool of hemocytes within explants and facilitated the migration of pharyngeal hemocytes from explants into culture supernatants. The diversity of morphologically distinct cell types within the hemocyte pool of pharyngeal cultures indicated that cell division was followed by regulated differentiation. In contrast to pharyngeal cultures, suspensions of circulatory hemocytes did not survive for prolonged periods in vitro. Proliferative activity could not be detected in circulatory hemocyte cultures. These results are discussed in terms of the differentiation state of hemocytes and the efficacy of culture conditions.
4296908|Nerve growth factor (NGF) binding sites on rat hepatocytes (HCs) in culture for 24 to 48 h were characterized using
4296702|A serum-free culture system supplemented with neural tissue extract for normal and tumor human esophagi was applied to the culture of mouse esophageal epithelium. Similar to mouse mesenchyme and skin epithelium, esophageal epithelial lines (MEE) emerged after serial culture. The cells had an apparent unlimited life span but retained morphology and other characteristics of normal epithelial cells. The cells formed a small cyst consisting of keratined squamous epithelium in syngenic hosts. A screen for growth factors that stimulated growth of the nonmalignant MEE cells in the absence of neural extract revealed that epidermal growth factor (EGF) and heparin-binding (fibroblast) growth factors (HBGF) were most effective. An HBGF-like activity was apparent in extracts of rapidly proliferating but not quiescent MEE cells at low or confluent densities. A cloned cell line (MEE/C8) was selected from MEE cell cultures in the absence of neural extract. MEE/C8 cells proliferated independent of either EGF or HBGF at rates equal to MEE cells, cell extracts exhibited HBGF-like activity at all stages of proliferation, and the cells formed large invasive tumors in syngenic hosts. The HBGF-like activity present in extracts of tumorigenic MEE/C8 and proliferating nonmalignant MEE cells had properties similar to HBGF-1 (acidic fibroblast growth factor). These results constitute a cultured mouse esophageal epithelial cell model for study of conversion of immortalized premalignant cells to malignant cells, and suggest that conversion from a state of cell cycle-dependent autocrine expression of one or more members of the HBGF family to a state of constitutive expression correlates with and may contribute to malignancy.
4296848| Myofibroblasts from human breast carcinomas were identified and experimentally generated in culture, and a possible function was examined. The frequency of -smooth muscle actin immunoreactive cells was evaluated as a measure of myofibroblast differentiation in primary culture. Few or no -smooth muscle actin-positive stromal cells (6.1  8.4%) were identified in primary cultures from normal breast tissue (n = 9). In contrast, high frequencies (68.8  15.1%) were observed in primary cultures from carcinomas (n = 19). The frequencies of myofibroblasts in primary cultures were almost identical to those obtained in the corresponding cryostat sections (69.1 vs. 68.8%). A possible precursor cell to the myofibroblast was looked for among typical fibroblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells. Purified blood vessels containing both fibroblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells were embedded in collagen gel and incubated with medium conditioned by breast epithelial cells. Fibroblasts rather than smooth muscle cells were recruited from the blood vessels. In medium conditioned by carcinoma cell lines or in co-cultures of carcinoma cell lines and purified fibroblasts, -smooth muscle actin and the typical myofibroblast phenotype were induced in otherwise -smooth muscle actin-negative fibroblasts. The effect of myofibroblasts on cellular movement-essential to neoplastic cells-was analyzed. Spontaneous motility of tumor cells (MCF-7) was entirely suppressed in a collagen gel assay. Under these conditions tumor cell motility was selectively mediated by direct cell-to-cell interaction between tumor cells and myofibroblasts. Under chemically defined conditions, interaction was dependent on the presence of plasminogen. Anti-plasminogen, soybean trypsin inhibitor, and anti-fibronectin partly neutralized the effect of plasminogen. It is concluded that elements of myofibroblast differentiation and function may be studied in culture. 
4295989|Several established cell lines from different classes of vertebrates were assayed for the presence of
4296684|Fibroblastlike primary cells have been obtained from human colon adenocarcinoma explants. Such cells disappear during cell culture and thus have not been previously studied. These cells have a number of altered phenotypic characteristics: a) morphology; b) growth behavior and adherence to culture substrate (they required 3 h for 90% attachment and only presented a flattened morphology 40 h after platting); and c) collagen metabolism. Increased protein biosynthesis (about double than control colon-derived fibroblasts) and maintained ability for collagen biosynthesis have been observed for the tumor-associated fibroblastlike cells. Thus, the collagen to noncollagenous proteins ratio was decreased for these cells. They exhibited an altered type I:type III collagen (5:1 instead of 3:1 in colon fibroblasts) and procollagen (2:1 against 5:1 in colon fibroblasts) ratios as well as a decreased secretion of collagen with an abnormal deposition of procollagens in the cell layer. These studies show a permanent phenotypic alteration in the tumor-associated fibroblast-like cells.
4296716|A cell line was established from an anaplastic astrocytoma from a 69-yr-old female. The cells have been serially subcultured over 300 times for 6 yr without showing any sign of cell senescence. Their doubling time is about 36 h. The cells are fusiform and often hexagonal in sparse culture, but become spindle-shaped and formed mosaic structure in confluent culture. Under electron microscopy, intermediate filaments were randomly distributed in the cytoplasma, especially in the perinuclear space. The chromosome number was near tetraploid and varied from 86 to 94 chromosomes with a modal number of 91. The alpha and beta subunits of S-100 protein, vimentin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which are reliable markers of astrocytic cells, were demonstrated in a large number of cells by immunoperoxidase staining. The results of immunoblotting showed that the expression of vimentin was much higher than that of GFAP. The tumorigenicity of the cells was revealed by xenografting into nude mice, which were X-irradiated before inoculation. Culture medium conditioned by the cells promoted growth of these cells in serum-free conditions and of normal rat glial cells in serum-depleted culture. The growth-promoting effect of conditioned medium was lost by trypsinization and reduced by boiling. These findings suggest that these cells are derived from neoplastic astrocytic cells and secrete a self-acting polypeptide growth-promoting factor into the culture medium.
4296798|Growth hormone (GH) production by
4296831|We previously demonstrated that human keratinocyte cultures proliferate in the absence of polypeptide growth factors (autonomous growth) and that this autonomous growth is blocked by interaction of heparin with a human keratinocyte-de- rived autocrine factor (KAF) which we identified as amphiregulin (AR). In the present study, we demonstrate that sulfated polysaccharides other than heparin (low and high molecular weight dextran sulfates) also inhibit the AR-mediated autonomous proliferation of human keratinocytes. Furthermore, sulfated polysaccharides such as high and low molecular weight dextran sulfates, heparan sulfate and, to a lesser extent, chondroitin sulfates B and C were also shown to be inhibitors of human keratinocyte-derived AR (k-d AR)-stimulated DNA synthesis in quiescent murine AKR-2B cell cultures. Our results demonstrate that sulfation of polysaccharides is required for AR inhibitory activity, and that several sulfated polysaccharides (other than heparin) can act as inhibitors of AR-mediated autonomous proliferation in human epidermal keratinocytes and as inhibitors of k-d AR-mediated mitogenic activity in AKR-2B cells.
4296943|Exposure to hyperglycemia slows the rate of proliferation of cultured human endothelial cells. Recently, it has been reported that glucose may autoxidize generating free radicals which have been hypothesized to delay cell replication time. To test whether oxidative stress has an effect on delaying cell replication time in hyperglycemic conditions, human endothelial cells cultured from umbilical veins were incubated in 5 or 20 mill glucose, either alone or in the presence of one of three different antioxidants: Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione (GSH). Cells grown in medium with 5 mM glucose, with or without antioxidants, yielded similar population doubling times and cell cycle phase distributions. Significantly lower growth parameters were observed in cells grown in medium with 20 mM glucose, without antioxidants. The presence of the antioxidant reverted them to almost normal growth. These data show that high glucose levels may delay endothelial cells replication time through the generation of free radicals, suggesting a possible pathophysiological linkage between the high levels of glucose and the development of microvascular complications of diabetes, possibly suggesting a new therapeutic approach to prevent such complications.
4296765|We have developed an organ culture system of the anuran small intestine to reproduce in vitro the transition from larval to adult epithelial form which occurs during spontaneous metamorphosis. Tubular fragments isolated from the small intestine of Xenopus laevis tadpoles were slit open and placed on membrane niters in culture dishes. In 60% Leibovitz 15 medium supplemented with 10% charcoal-treated serum, the explants were maintained in good condition for at least 10 days without any morphologic changes. Addition of triiodothyronine (T
4296278|A reproducible method is described for the separation and quantification of ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid by ion-pairing reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography and detection by absorbance at 232 nm. Lowest detectable concentrations with a linear response of detection were 5 nmol for ascorbic acid and 50 nmol for dehydroascorbic acid. This method was applied to the analysis of C3H/10T1/2 cells and culture medium after influx or efflux experiments and single or multiple treatments with ascorbic acid. Subsequent measurement of the radioactivity in the eluted fractions increased the detectability of both ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid to 10 to 20 pmol.
4296188| A method is described for growing high-density micromass cultures of chick and mouse limb mesenchyme cells in 96-well microtiter plates (TM cultures). Rapid quantitative estimates of chondrogenic expression were obtained by automated spectrophotometric analysis of Alcian-blue-stained cartilage matrix extracts performed in the wells in which the cells had been grown. Quantitative estimates of myogenic expression were obtained similarly using anti-sarcomere myosin monoclonal antibody and modified ELISA techniques. This TM-ELISA method may be adapted for use with other antigens for which specific antibodies are available. These methods were used to compare cartilage and muscle differentiation in 1 to 4 d TM cultures grown in serum-containing (SCM) and defined (DM) media. The DM contains minimal additives (insulin, hydrocortisone, and in some cases, ascorbate or transferrin) and supports both chondrogenesis and myogenesis. The colorimetric analyses agree well with the morphologic appraisal of chondrogenesis and myogenesis. Similar numbers of cartilage nodules formed in all cultures, but in DM the nodules failed to enlarge; explaining the reduced matrix synthesis in DM as compared with SCM, and suggesting that nodule enlargement is a discrete, serum-dependent step. Studies of selected additives to DM show that transferrin enhances myogenesis, ascorbic acid enhances chondrogenesis, and retinoic acid inhibits chondrogenesis. Together, the TM system, in situ colorimetric assays of chondrogenesis and myogenesis, and DM will allow rapid prescreening of teratogens and screening of various bioactive compounds (e.g., hormones, growth factors, vitamins, adhesion factors) for effects on limb mesenchymal cell differentiation. 
20171533|Increasing use is being made of tumor cell lines cultured as cell aggregates (generally referred to as multicellular spheroids) in in vitro radiosensitivity and/or chemosensitivity tests. Conventional procedures for the determination of mean spheroid diameters for the construction of growth delay curves employ a microscope-image analyzer. However, this approach can prove excessively time consuming when large numbers of samples have to be measured. We have, therefore, been exploring the use of a Laser Diffraction Particle Sizer, the Malvern 2600 long bench model, for the measurement of mean spheroid diameter and size distribution. We report here a direct comparison between measurements carried out by the instrument and under the microscope. Also a comparison of growth curves for six cell lines constructed from measurements by the microscope and by the instrument. A number of factors that might affect the accuracy of spheroid diameter measurement by the instrument have been investigated: The effect of stirring to maintain the spheroids in suspension during measurement. Sampling error due to removal of a series of spheroid samples from culture flasks for measurement. Optimum number of scans to be carried out by the instrument to reach a constant value for mean diameter, and minimum SE of the mean.
4296035|Segments of rat thoracic duct cultured in plasma clot or in collagen gel produced microvascular and fibroblastic outgrowths. Lymphaticlike channels (LLC) with a highly attenuated endothelium, which was barely visible by light microscopy, were found in 8 out of 25 cultures (32%). Serial histologic sections revealed that the endothelium of the LLC was continuous with the intimai endothelium of the thoracic duct and was therefore of lymphatic origin. In addition to the LLC, vascular channels lined by a thick endothelium with hump-shaped, cross-sectional profiles were found in 10 cultures (40%). These channels were indistinguishable from the microvessels of blood vascular origin that formed in parallel cultures of rat aorta or periductal adipose tissue and were termed hematiclike channels (HLC). Contrary to the LLC, the HLC did not originate from the lymphatic endothelium of the thoracic duct. The frequent association of the HLC with the adventitia of the thoracic duct and with the surrounding adipose tissue suggested that they probably developed from the hematic microvessels of the periductal soft tissues.
4295939|Lanthanum has been used effectively in studies of calcium physiology in experiments of short duration. In experiments of longer duration, we report that solutions, such as cell culture medium, containing lanthanum (
4296162|We developed a method to determine the amount of work performed by cells through cell division in 1.0% agar cultures. There was no correlation between the cloning efficiencies of 1.0 and 0.3% agar cultures. Growth in 1.0% agar cultures correlated well with such malignant properties as tumorigenicity and the invasive and metastatic potentials. Our method revealed that metastatic MC and F cell lines possess different means of taking advantage of energy to proliferate against an environmental pressure from those possesed by nontumorigenic (ME and T-C3H) cell strain/line or nonmetastatic but tumorigenic (L, MR, and
4296186|Rat hepatocytes were isolated and then maintained in serum-free cell culture medium for 24 h. The amount of malondialdehyde (MDA) accumulated in the medium was assayed and used as a measure of lipid peroxidation. The activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and urea were measured in the medium and used as indicators of hepatocellular viability and function. The effects of iron; desferrioxamine mesylate (Desferal), an iron chelator; and mannitol, a hydroxyl free radical scavenger were investigated. The addition of iron,
4296536|A widely utilized rabbit corneal cell line, SIRC, was characterized ultrastructurally and immunohistologically. Although SIRC cells are often described as being of epithelial origin, important ultrastructural and antigenic characteristics indicate that these cells are fibroblastic and not epithelial. SIRC cells lack desmosomes, cytpplasmic filaments, and cytokeratin-structures that are characteristic of corneal epithelial cells. By contrast, the dendritic morphology, presence of vimentin, and the extensive dense accumulations of ribosomes and rough endoplasmic reticulum are consistent with a fibroblastic phenotype. Collectively, the morphology, ultrastructural features, and antigenic composition favor the hypothesis that SIRC cells are fibroblastic cells (keratocytes) and not corneal epithelial cells.
4296355|A serum-free clonal density growth assay was developed for the quantification of the biological activity of human recombinant insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). The assay measures IGF-I stimulated growth of Balb/c 3T3 cells cultured over 4 d on poly-D-lysine-coated plastic surfaces in a serum-free medium formulation composed of a 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of Ham's F12 and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's media, supplemented with 3.0 ng/ml bovine basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF),
4296775|A panel of human colon carcinoma cell lines were characterized regarding both antigenic heterogeneity and variations in radiosensitivity. Monoclonal antibodies were used to study the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), gastrointestinal cancer antigen (GICA or CA 19-9) and carcinoma-associated antigen (CA-50). Radiosensitivity was studied with the clonogenic survival technique. Three cell lines, LS 174T, HCTC, and SW 1116 stained positive for all three antigens. HT-29 was positive for CA 19-9 and CA-50 whereas Caco-2 was positive for CEA and CA 19-9. The cell lines SW 620 and LIM 1215 only stained positive for one of the antigens, CA-50 and CEA, respectively. In nearly all positive cases the stainings were very heterogeneous with mixtures of positive and negative cells. One exception was the HCTC cells which stained homogeneously for the CA 19-9 and CA-50 antigens. The neuroendocrinelike COLO 320 cells were negative in all cases. The radiosensitivity varied strongly between the cell lines with
4296173| Growth of the estrogen-responsive MTW9/PL2 rat mammary tumor cells was demonstrated in serum-free defined medium (designated DDM-1) formulated with F12-DME (1:1 vol/vol) supplemented with 15 mM HEPES pH 7.4, insulin 10 ml, transferrin 10 /ml, sodium selenite 10 ng/ml, triiodo-L-thyronine 0.3 nM, phosphoethanolamine 5 M, epidermal growth factor (20 ng/ml), 17 -estradiol 2 nM, and bovine serum albumin 20 /ml. In DDM-1, the growth rate was about one-half that seen in serum-containing medium. When ethanolamine (50 M), glutathione (20 g/ml), and linoleic acid/bovine serum albumin (150 g/ml) were added (formulation DDM-2), the growth rate was 80% of serum-containing medium and not seed-density dependent. Deletion of estradiol from DDM-1 or DDM-2 had no effect on growth rate. Also, cells grown in steroid hormone deficient medium for 4 mo. continued to form estrogen-responsive tumors in rats as did cells cultured for the same period in 2 nM estradiol. To investigate autocrine growth factor secretion, a third medium (DDM-3) was prepared by deleting insulin, epidermal growth factor, phosphoethanolamine, estradiol, and both forms of bovine serum albumin from DDM-2. Growth in mitogen-free medium equaled 86% of the serum-stimulated rate and was seed-density dependent; phenol red deletion from DDM-3 had no effect on growth rate. Evidence presented suggests that autocrine factors stimulate growth of the MTW9/PL2 cells in DDM-3, and that this secretion may support the growth of estrogen-responsive cells in culture in the absence of steroid hormone. 
4295881|Cartilage was taken from the macroscopically normal part of human femoral heads immediately after orthopedic surgical operations for total prothesis consecutive to hip arthrosis. After clostridial collagenase digestion and repeated washings, chondrocytes (
20171447|A novel culture method has been developed to study the interaction of epithelial cells in the absence of a solid substratum. Starting with either a single cell suspension or aggregates, cells were floated at the interface of air and liquid culture medium. Two epithelial cell lines have been studied in this system: Madin-Darby canine kidney cells (MDCK), and a rat bladder tumor cell line (NBT-II). Starting with a single cell suspension of MDCK, the floating cells coalesced in 24 h into sheets of cells. The cells were morphologically polarized with the apical surface facing the liquid medium. Domes were observed regularly in these sheets of cells. NBT-II cells migrated actively from aggregates at the air-liquid interface. In this floating culture, NBT-II cells produced extensive cell processes similar to those seen in cells grown on a solid surface. Because cells at the air-liquid interface lack a solid substratum for adhesion, cell membrane processes such as lamellapodia, retraction fibers, pseudopods, and long, intercellular connections can only exert a tension equal to or less than the surface tension of the liquid. Dimethyl sulfoxide 2% stimulated desmosome formation in floating NBT-II cells, resulting in a cribriform pattern in the sheet of cells. This method of interface can lead to new understanding of morphogenesis of epithelial cells, and the mechanism of cell motility and formation of cell processess.
4296498|Plasma membranes isolated from HeLa cells cultivated in suspension cultures supplemented with 3.5% fetal bovine serum or 2% of the commercially available serum substitute Ultroser G contained the same amounts of protein, cholesterol, and phosphate on a cellular basis. Minor differences in the plasma membrane fatty acid composition were seen, with the most pronounced alteration observed for palmitic acid, which amounted to 27 and 20% in fetal bovine serum- and Ultroser G-supplemented cells, respectively. Plasma membranes from cells grown with Ultroser G contained almost twice as much phosphatidylethanolamine and displayed two thirds of the phosphatidylcholine content, compared to plasma membranes obtained from fetal bovine serum supplemented cells. The former membranes also showed a 3 times higher specific
20171438|To determine if fibroblasts could be a source of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) in tissue, cells were initiated in culture from newborn human foreskin. Cells were studied in Passages 2 to 8. Fibroblast cell lysates promoted radiolabeled thymidine uptake by cultured quiescent fibroblasts. Seventy-nine percent of the growth-promoting activity of lysates was recovered from heparin-Sepharose. The heparin-binding growth factor reacted on immunoblots with antiserum to human placenta-derived basic FGF and competed with iodinated basic FGF for binding to antiserum to (1-24)bFGF synthetic peptide. To confirm that fibroblasts were the source of the growth factor, cell lysates were prepared from cells incubated with radiolabeled methionine. Heparin affinity purified material was immunoprecipitated with basic FGF antiserum and electrophoresed. Radiolabeled material was detected on gel autoradiographs in the same molecular weight region as authentic iodinated basic FGF. The findings are consistant with the notion that cultured fibroblasts express basic FGF. As these cells also respond to the mitogen, it is possible that the regulation of their growth is under autocrine control. Fibroblasts may be an important source of the growth factor in tissue.
20171442|Six- and seven-day post-coitus (p.c.) rabbit embryos have been cultured in an attempt to establish a trophectodermal cell line. Results indicate that cells with epithelial characteristics (i.e. positive staining for cytokeratin) will survive in culture until Passage 3. At that time a fibroblastlike cell becomes predominant. In addition, we have found that the presence of the inner cell mass is required for trophectodermal cells from 6-d p.c. embryos to attach to the collagen substrate. Culture of 7-d p.c. embryo explants often results in the development of cells that spontaneously contract. These cells stain positively for myosin, which indicates that they may be precardiac cells. Maximum diastolic potential was -59  1.2 mV and the threshold potential was -53  2.3 mV. Spontaneously contracting cells did not respond to atropine, acetylcholine, epinephrine, isoproterenol, or propranolol. Action potential seems to be a result of an inward calcium current, because the beating rate is decreased in a dose-related manner with the calcium channel blocker verapamil, whereas the voltage-sensitive sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin was without effect.
4296029|The proliferation of isolated normal prostate epithelial cells from rat and man is androgen-independent and requires cholera toxin, insulin, dexamethasone, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and one or more polypeptide factors that are concentrated in bovine neural tissue. The active agents in the neural tissue extract are heparin-binding polypeptides (prostatropins), the predominant form of which has a molecular weight of 17400 and an acetylalanine at the aminoterminus. Prostatropins supported a half-maximal increase in normal prostate epithelial cell number at 50 picomolar. The proliferation of primary and serially-cultured epithelial cells from androgen-responsive Dunning R3327 rat prostate tumors was also androgen-independent, but exhibited dramatic alterations in response to hormones that stimulated normal cell proliferation. At low cell density, androgen-independent growth of isolated tumor-derived epithelial cells was independent on cholera toxin, was stimulated by dexamethasone, required insulin and either EGF or prostatropin. The presence of either EGF or prostatropin masked the response to the other factor. In the absence of EGF, purified prostatropins supported a half-maximal increase in tumor cell number at 7 picomolar. Endogenous production of EGF-like and prostatropin-like factors or both was suggested by the reduced requirement for EGF and prostatropin at high prostate tumor cell density. These results suggest that anti-hormonal therapies against prostate tumor growth should be based on intervention with the activity of insulin (or insulin-like factors) or simultaneous intervention with both EGF and prostatropin (or their homologues).
4296175| An electrophoretically homogeneous 63 KDa polypeptide derived from the protoxin of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki; (HD-263) caused lysis of cells from the lepidopteran cell lines TN368, IPLB-HZ1075, LD652Y, and SF21AE. The extent of cytolysis among the different cell cultures varied according to the incubation milieu, the polypeptide, and the particular cell culture studied. Preincubation of the polypeptide with either the amino sugars galactosamine, mannosamine, glucosamine, or their N-acetyl derivatives prevented cytolysis to a varying extent. Derivatives of galactose were more effective than those of mannose, followed by those of glucose. The amino sugars inhibited more efficiently than the N-acetyl derivatives. No inhibition was detected using the parent sugars. A baculovirus originally isolated from the lepidopteran Autographa californica was grown in TN368 cells and the extracellular virus (ECV) preincubated with varying concentrations of the polypeptide before assay. A concentration of 5 g/ml reduced viral infectivity 99% when assayed on TN368 cells. These results support the current thinking that at least some Bt toxins may utilize specific cell-surface glycoconjugates for initiation of their toxic action and that the numbers and types of receptors may vary with the specific cell line. Also, reduction of baculovirus ECV infectivity by Bt toxic polypeptide indicates binding to a cell-surface glycoconjugate essential for initiation of infection, whether it is the normal cell receptor or a virus-coded glycoconjugate. 
4296444|Liver epithelial cells from a young rat were cultured and passaged for a long period until they showed a malignant transformation (tumorigenicity in athymic mice), to know when an autocrine growth factor is produced in the course of a spontaneous malignant transformation of normal cells in vitro. The cells initially showed a cellular transformation and an increased growth rate, then produced an autocrine growth factor after Passage 55, and finally the cells after Passage 105 showed a malignant transformation (tumorigenicity in vivo). It is suggested that in addition to an autocrine growth factor, some other factors might be related to a malignant transformation (tumorigenicity in vivo).
4296135|Sodium-sulfate-tolerant callus of Brassica napus cv. Westar, selected on medium containing 105 mM
4296685|Primary cultures of rabbit tracheal cells were obtained as outgrowths from explants of tracheal mucosa. A 30% collagen substratum containing serum and minimal essential medium was required for obtaining an outgrowth of epithelial cells keeping their differentiated characteristics. The tracheal epithelial cells obtained near the explant in the first days of culture presented morphologic similarities with normal tracheal epithelium. Cultures contained basal cells and epithelial polarized cells that exhibited apical tight junctions and desmosomes. Ciliated cells stayed functional during all time culture. Their number slightly increased at the beginning of the culture and then stayed constant when the total number of cells increased. Development of the outgrowth was rapid and significant inasmuch as the outgrowth surface reached 30 times that of the explant after less than 8 days. This was linked to cellular proliferation, as demonstrated by the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) in phase-S nuclei and the revelation of BrdU using an immunofluorescence technique. The epithelial nature of the outgrowth cells and the absence of contamination with fibroblasts were established by positive staining with anti-keratin antibody and by negative staining with anti-vimentin antibody, respectively.
4296613|Transformation of primary cultures of human breast cells with simian virus 40 and clonal selection has yielded single-cell-cloned, epithelial cell lines, as well as myoepithelial-related cell lines. When grown on floating collagen gels, the epithelial cell lines give rise to branching rays of cells, thick fingerlike protrusions, saclike structures, and degenerating areas. The myoepithelial-related cell lines give rise only to the branching rays. Epidermal growth factor stimulates the production of the thick protrusions, whereas cholera toxin stimulates the production of the degenerating areas. Immunocytochemical staining of these cultures using reagents directed against the cell surface-extracellular matrix or the cellular cytoskeleton confirms the epithelial and myoepithelial nature of the cells, and demonstrates that the degenerating areas are undergoing squamous metaplasia. The fingerlike protrusions consist of cords of cells composed of inner, epithelial and outer, myoepithelial-related cells sometimes surrounding a central lumen reminiscent of ducts. The saclike structures resemble alveoli. Ultrastructural analysis confirms the identification of the basic cell types and also identifies indeterminate cells possessing features of both epithelial and myoepithelial cells. It is suggested that the epithelial cell lines represent human mammary stem cells that can undergo processes of morphogenesis and differentiation in vitro to form many of the three-dimensional structures found within the breast.
4296914|The effects of the simple phospholipids phosphatidic acid (PA) and lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) on the growth and function of Madin Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells has been studied. We observed that PA and LPA not only stimulated the growth of MDCK cells (at
4295735|Previous culture systems for melanocytes have employed serum-supplemented medium and uncoated plastic dishes, prohibiting examination of possible substrate influences on cellular morphology and function. We now report, using a sensitive serum-free system and a quantitative procedure for evaluating cellular morphology, that modification of the plating surface affects human epidermal melanocyte attachment rate and subsequent morphology in vitro. Melanocytes attach and spread more rapidly on surfaces coated with fibronectin or Type I/III collagen or on surfaces previously conditioned by human keratinocytes, dermal fibroblasts, melanocytes, or melanoma cells than do melanocytes on untreated control surfaces. Type IV collagen and laminin, although minimally beneficial for cell attachment, do support a characteristic melanocyte morphology that differs from that seen either on the other coated surfaces or on uncoated plastic controls. Addition of fetal bovine serum at the time of inoculation has no appreciable effect on attachment but markedly improves cell spreading on untreated surfaces, while addition of nerve growth factor with or without serum to this system fails to affect cell attachment or spreading. Our data establish that human epidermal melanocytes are indeed capable of responding morphologically to substrate signals. The ability of several biochemically unrelated surfaces to enhance melanocyte attachment rate and spreading suggests that melanocytes have surface receptors with a variety of specificities. This work is relevant to the development of improved culture systems for melanocytes in vitro and to understanding melanocyte behavior in vivo.
20171382| The roles of glucose and insulin in the promotion of DNA synthesis in pacncreatic islet cell monolayers were assessed using a variety of in vitro conditions. Several substrates including collagen, poly-l-lysine, Matrigel, and the extracellular matrix produced by cultured bovine endothelial cells (BCEM) were compared for their ability to promote monolayer growth. Islets grown on BCEM in combination with medium RPMI 1640 supplemented with 22.2 mM glucose or 10 g/ml insulin gave the best results as determined by new DNA synthesis. The new-form monolayers were free of contaminating fibroblasts. These results suggest that insulin is critical to pancreatic islet growth when the cells are attached to biocompatible matrices. 
4296881|
               
4296477|A human foreskin organ culture system has been developed to study the response of human skin to hormonal stimulation. Foreskins are maintained in culture on floating plastic supports which allows the epidermal surface to be exposed to air while the dermis is bathed in nutrient medium. Both black and white human foreskins can be maintained in organ culture for at least 1 wk with no change in the tissue structure or cell viability as determined by histochemical staining and by dopa reaction staining. Tyrosinase activity in both black and white human foreskin cultures decays markedly during the first 2 d of culture to a new steady state level which remains stable throughout the culture period. Both black and white foreskin cultures consistently demonstrate 2- to 10-fold increases in tyrosinase activity when treated with theophylline (1 mM). Approximately 90% of all skin cultures examined showed an increase in enzyme activity when treated with this phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Dibutyryl cAMP (0.1 mM) and <tex-math>$[Nle^4,D-phe^7]-alpha$</tex-math> MSH (1<tex-math>$10^{-8} M$</tex-math>), were also found to markedly stimulate tyrosinase activity in some skin cultures, whereas alpha-MSH and prostaglandin E<sub>1</sub> produced only an inconsistent and small increase in the activity of the enzyme. Histamine (1  M), vitamin D<sub>3</sub> (1  M), and retinoic acid (1  M) failed to stimulate tyrosinase activity in either white or black foreskin cultures. This hormone-responsive organ culture system can be utilized to characterize the molecular processes responsible for the regulation of tyrosinase and pigmentation in human skin.
4296516| A serum-free primary culture system is described which allows normal rat mammary epithelial cells (RMECs) embedded within a reconstituted basement membrane to undergo extensive growth and functional differentiation as detected by synthesis and secretion of the milk products casein and lipid. RMECs isolated from mammary glands of immature virgin rats were seeded within an extracellular matrix preparation derived from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm sarcoma and cultured in a serum-free medium consisting of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-F12 containing insulin, prolactin, progesterone, hydrocortisone, epidermal growth factor, bovine serum albumin, transferrin, and ascorbic acid. Casein synthesis and secretion were documented at the electron microscopic level as well as by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assay using a polyclonal antibody against total rat caseins. Numerous secretory vesicles with casein micelles were noted near the apical surface of the RMECs, and secreted casein was observed in the lumen. These ultrastructural data were confirmed by the ELISA assay which showed that microgram amounts of casein per well were synthesized by the RMECs and that the amount of casein increased with time in culture. Using immunoblot analysis it was demonstrated that the full complement of casein proteins was synthesized. In addition to casein protein, -casein mRNA levels were shown to increase with time. Synthesized lipid was detected at both the light and electron microscopic levels. Phase contrast photomicrographs demonstrated extensive intracellular lipid accumulation within the ductal and lobuloalveolarlike colonies, and at the electron micrograph level, lipid droplets were predominantly localized near the apical surface of the RMECs. The lipid nature of these droplets was verified by oil red O staining. Results from this study demonstrate that RMECs from immature virgin rats proliferate extensively and rapidly develop the capacity to synthesize and secrete casein and lipid when grown within a reconstituted basement membrane under defined serum-free conditions. This unique system should thus serve as an excellent model in which the regulation of mammary development and gene expression can be investigated. 
4296305|Mouse keratinocytes cultures readily develop into established cell lines without undergoing a "crisis" in a newly-developed serum-free medium, LEP/MK2. LEP/MK2 consists of calcium-free MEM with non-essential amino acids supplemented with 8 factors. Two lines, MK1 and MKDC4, have been isolated and have now doubled more than 400 and 200 times respectively. In MK1 cells, Giemsa banding has revealed significant karyotypic changes as early as the 4th passage, leading to a near-tetraploid karyotype with random loss and gain of individual chromosomes. Minute chromosomes, but no stable markers have been observed. After these initial changes, examination of cultures at several passage levels has shown that the karyotype has remained essentially stable. The MKDC4 line, also sub-tetraploid at the 7th passage, had 4 marker chromosomes by the 47th passage. The rapid increase in chromosome number may have contributed to the "immortalization" of these lines. The response of these established keratinocyte lines to growth factors and serum-derived inhibitors changed with increasing passage level. Most notable of these changes were a reduction in the requirement for bovine pituitary extract (an absolute requirement for growth of secondary MK1 cells) and a decreased sensitivity to serum and serum-derived inhibitors, e.g., transforming growth factor-. The established lines, like primary and secondary keratinoeytes, remain responsive to calcium-induced terminal differentiation and are non-tumorigenic in athymic, nude mice. This serum-free system is suitable for transformation studies with oncogenes and chemical carcinogens.
4296723|We examined the effects of secretin (0 to 200 nM) and caerulein (0 to 100 nM) on rat pancreatic acinar cells cultured 0 to 48 h in serum-free medium. The effects of 100 nM secretin with 1 nM caerulein were also studied because secretin may potentiate the effects of caerulein. Cellular and media (secreted) lipase and amylase were analyzed as were cellular DNA and protein content. Cellular lipase and amylase activities significantly decreased (P < 0.0001) over time in all treatment groups, whereas media amylase and lipase significantly increased (P < 0.0001). Neither secretin nor caerulein affected cellular lipase or media amylase. However, secretin significantly increased (P < 0.04) and caerulein tended to increase (P < 0.08) media lipase in a dose-dependent manner. At 12 h, 10 nM secretin maximally increased media lipase (58%), suggesting that cultured acinar cells remain responsive to secretin in vitro. Caerulein, at all concentrations, significantly decreased (P < 0.001) cellular amylase but exhibited a dose-dependent effect only at 24 h when 100 nM caerulein maximally decreased cellular amylase (34%). Secretin (100 nM) did not alter these effects of caerulein. These results support the proposed role of caerulein in the regulation of amylase but not a direct role of secretin in the regulation of lipase.
4296406|Strains of Mycoplasma arthritidis differ in their ability to cause joint and ocular inflammations. Although the reasons for this difference are not fully understood, pathogenic mycoplasmas commonly require close associations with the cells they damage. Using
4296847|The neoplastic expression in mouse embryo fibroblasts exposed to 1,2-dibromoethane and its chloroanalogue, 1,2-dichloroethane in vitro, was examined. Both substances are widely used as fumigants for carpet and upholstery, as gasoline additives, and as organic solvents. Both are known to be highly toxic, mutagenic, and carcinogenic agents. C3H10T1/2 cells treated with these haloalkanes exhibited altered morphology and were selected further by cloning in soft agar. Soft agar clones were found to induce a 100% multitumor occurrence in the nude mouse model. These results suggest that this pair of mutagens have altered the normal phenotype of mouse embryo cells, and these cells have become neoplastic. These neoplastic cell lines will be useful as an in vitro model to study the role of genetic changes in the transformation processes induced by halogenated hydrocarbons.
4296019|A long-term culture of a spontaneously transformed endothelial cell line derived from the choroid-retina of a rhesus macaque fetus is reported. It has been carried in vitro by serial propagation more than 548 passages in 17 yr. Cells were identified as being of endothelial origin by cellular morphology, growth pattern, ultrastructure, immunocytochemistry (immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase), and immunodiffusion. The transformants are characterized by (a) an infinite life span, (b) a changed expression of Factor VIII-related antigen, and (c) chromosomal aberrations. Throughout long-term serial passages and after repeated freeze-storage, thawing, and reculture the cells retain the specific organelles, Weibel-Palade bodies, and most of the other characteristic morphologic features. For this long-term cultured endothelial cell line, Weibel-Palade bodies seem to be a more reliable marker than Factor VIII-related antigen.
4296868|Aedes albopictus mosquito cells resistant to the thymidine analog 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) were obtained using a single-step selection procedure. The resistant cells were characterized with respect to growth in the presence of BrdU, incorporation of
4296770|A chemically defined medium containing 1.2 mM Ca
4296385| Heavy metals including mercury, cadmium, cobalt, and copper (100 M) exerted an adverse effect on the viability of isolated rat adrenal capsular (zona glomerulosa), adrenal decapsular (fasciculate and reticularis), and Leydig cells of the testis, with mercury being the most potent. Due to the decreased cell viability there was a parallel reduction in corticotropin-stimulated corticosterone production by adrenal decapsular cells and luteinizing hormone-stimulated testosterone production by Leydig cells. The results indicated a direct toxic action of these heavy metals on steroid-producing cells in the adrenal gland and the testis. Other metals tested, including lead, zinc, aluminum, chromium, iron, nickel, and lithium, did not exert any deleterious effect on cell viability or hormone-induced steroidogenesis in adrenal and Leydig cells when tested up to a concentration of 100 M. 
4296565|The growth of the mouse pituitary cell line AtT 20 was studied under different in vitro conditions. A completely defined, serum-free culture medium supported the survival of cells for a period of more than 2 mo. The medium, designed SFI, consisted of basal medium supplemented with transferrin, insulin, putrescine, and selenium. For maintenance of cells during long-term culture, no additional compounds were necessary. The time-dependent increases in cell number during culture with fetal bovine serum (FBS) and under serum-free conditions showed similar properties. Analysis of the effects of different substrata on cell growth demonstrated that polylysine supported adhesion and initial growth of cells to a greater extent than untreated plastic or FBS adsorbed to culture dishes. Synthesis and regulation of proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-mRNA, the precursor-mRNA of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), could be detected by Northern blot analysis under basal conditions and after incubation with steroids and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), indicating the serum-independent expression of important cellular properties.
4296996|Prolonged exposure of cells to the potent protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) terminates in cell death. In the present study we investigated the effect of epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and insulin on cell death induced by CHX in the human cancerous cell lines MDA-231 and MCF-7 (breast), KB (oral epidermoid), HEP-2 (larynx epidermoid), and SW-480 (colon), and correlated this effect to the inhibition rate of protein synthesis. Cell death was evaluated by measuring either dead cells by trypan blue dye exclusion test or by the release of lactic dehydrogenase into the culture medium. CHX was shown to induce cell death in a concentration (
4295933|Five human tumor cell lines were studied for growth factor requirements and for replication in serum-free media. Of the five tumor lines HT-29 (colon carcinoma), TWI (melanoma), A-549 (lung carcinoma), Panc-1, (carcinoma of the pancreas) and EJ, (bladder carcinoma) only HT-29 and TWI grew in the serum-free medium (SFM). In a series of additional experiments, a combination of transferrin (
20171457|The effects of various extracellular matrices and collagenous components on the morphology, growth, and function of cultured alveolar type 2 cells is examined. Cells grown on an endothelial matrix (EC) showed the greatest adherence, some cell division, and spreading to reach confluence sooner than cells grown on an epithelial matrix or on various types of collagen. The attenuated cells from all cultures were not true type 1 cells because, on trypsinization, they detached as sheets, reverted immediately to a cuboidal shape held together by junctional complexes, and showed an apparently normal content of lamellar bodies. The greatest synthesis of disaturated phosphatidylcholine (DSPC) was seen in cells grown on EC soon after confluence, but all cultures showed reduced but equal levels of DSPC-DNA by Day 4. This occurred whether cells were attenuated or cuboidal in shape. The results suggest that some component(s) of the endothelial matrix at the alveolar basement membrane facilitates epithelial cell growth. However, over longer culture periods the matrix preparations had little effect on type 2 cell proliferation whereas function diminished. This suggests that maintenance of these cells as normal type 2 cells or their further differentiation to the type 1 form requires some additional cell derived factor(s).
4296281|The instability of the amino acid glutamine prompted us to investigate substitute compounds appropriate for culture conditions. The effect of two glutamine-containing dipeptides, alanylglutamine (Ala-Gin) and glycylglutamine (Gly-Gln), on the growth behavior of a hematopoietic cell line in culture (K562) was investigated. Growth rates and [
4296880|During the peri-implantation stages of mouse development, the secondary trophoblast invades into the uterine decidua. This uniquely controlled invasive process results in the formation of the placenta. We have analyzed this process in vitro using cultures of decidua and microdissected ectoplacental cones from Day 7 embryos. The results showed that the interaction between these two cell types is comparable to that seen in vivo. Morphologically, the decidua maintained close contact with the spreading trophoblast, limiting its invasion and producing a multilayered trophoblast outgrowth. Attachment to the decidua was not mediated through cell-matrix binding, but the subsequent invasion into the decidua was dependent on normal matrix interactions. Secretion of proteinases by the trophoblast also seemed to be a requirement for successful invasion, but not attachment.
4296099|Segregation of genes controlling expression of anthocyanin pigmentation in rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica) leaf blade and leaf sheath was examined in the microspore-derived plants. The segregation pattern of marker genes was found to fit closely the expected gametic segregation ratios among microspore-derived green as well as albino plants. Microspore-derived in vitro regenerated plants expressed genetic traits similar to seedlings. The results indicate that the germ cell culture technique can be of significance while monitoring gene action, i.e. anthocyanin synthesis at monoploid phase of plant development.
20171526|A spontaneously arising continuous cell line (Rb-1) derived from collagenase-elastase digested rabbit aorta has been propagated in vitro for over 100 passages. During this period, the Rb-1 cells remained spindle-shaped and formed regularly oriented parallel bundles. After Passage 50, Rb-1 cells were found to be serum-independent in their growth and reached higher saturation density than rabbit aorta smooth muscle cells. Alpha-actin and desmin filaments were detected by immunostaining in Rb-1 cells and early passage of rabbit aorta smooth muscle cells. The proportion of alpha-actin transcripts in Rb-1 cells was lower than that of transcripts for beta- and gamma-actins. The model chromosome number was maintained at 44 between Passages 11 and 60, and two marker chromosomes were constantly present. Infection of Rb-1 cells with two strains of herpes simplex virus type 1 resulted in high titers of virus, whereas a herpes simplex virus type 2 temperature-sensitive mutant replicated only at the permissive temperature. The Rb-1 cell line could be used for the study of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and their interaction with viruses.
4296805|Rat preputial cells were grown in an epithelial cell primary monolayer culture system identical to that used for culturing epidermal cells, which were studied for comparison. Despite similar appearance when observed by phase contrast microscopy, other features identified the preputial cells as a unique epithelial cell population. Preputial cells grew as a relatively small number of large colonies, formed domes before confluence, and expressed a specific acinar keratin, K4, which had previously been found in human sebaceous glands. In addition, preputial cells formed fewer cornified envelopes than epidermal cells, too few to discern the reduction of envelope formation by retinoic acid treatment in vitro which was found in epidermal cells. Rat preputial cells in monolayer culture, therefore, are a promising model for studying the effects of hormones on sebaceous cell growth and differentiation.
4296482|Gingival tissue from healthy adult human donors was used as a source of epithelial cells for culture. An overnight incubation of this tissue with dispase facilitated the mechanical separation of the surface epithelium from the underlying fibrous connective tissue. This step minimized culture contamination with fibroblasts. The epithelium was then trypsinized to prepare a single cell suspension. The cell pellets were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in keratinocyte growth medium, incubated at 37 C and 5% CO<sub>2</sub> in a humid atmosphere. Primary cultures grew in small islands that coalesced at confluency. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated uniform staining of the cells with antibodies to keratins of stratified squamous epithelium. Ultrastructurally, the cells contained distinct intermediate filaments. When cells were grown in media with low calcium (0.15 mM), cell-to-cell contacts were via interlacing papillary projections with no desmosomes. However, when cells were grown under physiologic calcium (1.2 mM), desmosomes were prominent and well developed. Cells were maintained in culture for over 100 d (7 passages).
4295911|The growth stimulating properties of bovine serum and colostrum were compared in rat hepatoma (HTC) and glioma (C6) cell cultures. A colostrum concentration of 2% was optimal for HTC cells, which then reached a terminal density 40% of that in serum-supplemented medium. The corresponding figures for C6 cells were 10 and 81%, respectively. After 4 d in culture, levels of lipid hydroperoxides were measured and compared. Highest levels of lipid hydroperoxides were found in HTC and C6 cells grown in unsupplemented medium. HTC and C6 cells grown in serum supplemented medium contained levels of 52 and 64%, respectively, of that in unsupplemented medium. The corresponding levels for cells grown in presence of colostrum were 40% for HTC and 44% for C6 cells. To obtain information on any functional alterations in the cells due to the presence of colostrum the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.5) and glutamine synthetase (EC 6.3.1.2) by dexamethasone was studied. Although colostrum seemed to increase the basal activities of the enzymes, no significant effects on the degree of induction could be detected.
4296640| This study examines the effects of cell purity and incubation conditions on testosterone production by rat testis Leydig cells in short-term primary culture. Both basal and luteinizing hormone (LH)-stimulated testosterone production were affected by the purity of the cell preparation, i.e. as the purity of the cell preparation was increased the amount of testosterone produced per Leydig cell was also found to increase. The stimulation ratio of testosterone production, calculated as the secretion of testosterone in the presence of LH (100 ng/ml) divided by the basal secretion of testosterone, increased with the increase in plating density (20 000 to 200 000 cells per well). This pattern of change was independent of the vessel and volume of incubation. In terms of the absolute amount of testosterone produced, increasing the plating density led to a decrease in the amount of steroid produced both basally and in response to LH. Composition of the incubation medium also had an effect on testosterone production; phenol red and sodium bicarbonate exerted negative effects. At all temperatures studied (4, 24, 34, and 37 C), LH increased testosterone production and the degree of stimulation increased with temperature. We conclude that cell purity and incubation conditions markedly affect rat Leydig cell steroidogenesis in vitro. Furthermore, the manner in which the results are presented can affect their interpretation. 
4296907|Adult chicken hepatocytes were obtained by an adaptation of the two step in situ collagenase perfusion. Usually 0.5 to 1  10
4296257| The ability of human epithelial cells derived from adult prostatic tissues to undergo clonal growth in culture was examined. In a previously described serum-free culture system, such cells exhibited a density-dependent growth requirement. It was found that raising the 'level of one of the constituents of the culture medium, bovine pituitary extract, to 100 g/ml permitted excellent clonal growth when as few as 100 cells were inoculated/60-mm2 dish. Raising the levels of supplements other than pituitary extract (cholera toxin, epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, or insulin) did not produce this result. The average colony-forming efficiency of cells derived from primary or early passage cultures was approximately 25%. When single cell suspensions were prepared from tissue isolates and directly analyzed for clonal growth, colony-forming efficiencies were approximately 5%, perhaps indicating the proportion of stem cells with prolif erative potential in the original isolates. The colony-forming efficiency of a cell population derived from cancer tissue was not significantly different from those of populations derived from normal tissues. 
4295959|Confronting cultures of precultured embryonic chick heart fragments (PHF) with aggregates of malignant cells in vitro have been shown to be relevant for a number of aspects of tumor invasion in vivo. Preculture of the heart fragments, formation of cell aggregates, and subsequent culture of confronting pairs have so far been done only in serum-containing culture media. We describe here confronting cultures of PHF with invasive
4296202|The DH82 cell line was established from the neoplastic progenitor cells of canine MH and was characterized as histiocytic in origin based on light microscopic and ultrastructural morphology, positive staining reactions for alpha naphthyl acetate esterase and acid phosphatase, presence of Fc receptors, phagocytosis of latex beads, and plastic adherence in culture.
4296845| Bovine granulosa cell - conditioned medium (BGC-CM) was prepared in a serum-free medium consisting of TCM 199, 5 g/ml insulin, and 0.5 g/ml aprotinin (TCM 199 IAP). Granulosa cells surrounded with embryos were denuded 24 to 30 h after in vitro fertilization. The proportion of denuded granulosa cell-free embryos that developed to the blastocyst stage in BGC-CM (43/219; 20%) as well as in the co-culture system (43/178; 24%) was significantly greater (P < 0.001) than in fresh TCM 199 IAP medium (FM: 10/191; 5%), whereas the proportion of embryos that developed to the eight-cell stage was similar (P > 0.05) in all three culture systems (95/178; 53% in co-culture, 111/219; 51% in BGC-CM, and 86/191; 45% in FM, respectively). Higher rates of hatching and hatched blastocysts 8.5 days after in vitro fertilization were observed in co-culture (13/44; 29.5%) and in conditioned medium (8/39; 20.5%). On the other hand, no hatching or hatched blastocysts were obtained in the fresh medium (0/7; 0%). Cell numbers per blastocyst in BGC-CM (178.3 cells/blastocyst) were approximately two-fold higher than those in FM (97.1 cells/blastocyst). However, higher cell numbers (249.3 cells/blastocyst) were observed in co-culture with BGC than in BGC-CM. The embryotrophic activity in BGC-CM was stable upon freezing and thawing, lyophilization, and heating at 56 C whereas activity was reduced by dilution in fresh medium, dialysis, pronase digestion, and heating at 80 C. These results suggest that BGC cultured in a serum-free medium can synthesize and secrete an embryotrophic factor(s) that supports blastocyst formation in vitro beyond the 8- to 16-cell stage. 
20171494|Five human myeloma cell lines, KMM-1, KMS-5, KMS-11, KMS-12-PE, and KMS-12-BM, have been established at Kawasaki Medical School since 1980. As the KMS-12-PE and KMS-12-BM lines were obtained from the same patient, these five cell lines have been derived from four patients with multiple myeloma. The five myeloma cell lines are stably growing at present in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. They can also grow in a defined culture medium without serum. That these cell lines were human myeloma cells was confirmed by the following findings. Ultrastructually, all five cell lines showed features characteristic of plasma cells. KMM-1 and KMS-11 cells secreted lambda and kappa chains into the culture medium, respectively, but the other cell lines produced no immunoglobulins. KMM-1 expressed cytoplasmic lambda antigen, KMS-5 showed cytoplasmic delta, and KMS-11 expressed surface kappa, whereas KMS-12-PE and KMS-12-BM cells showed no surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulins. Regarding reaction with a monoclonal plasma cell antibody (PCA-1), four of the five lines were positive, the exception being KMS-5. Another monoclonal antibody (CD38), which also recognizes plasma cells, responded to KMM-1, KMS-12-PE, and KSM-12-BM. KMS-5 cells expressed acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigens (CALLA). These data suggest that such lines as KMM-1, KMS-11, KMS-12-PE, and KMS-12-BM represent later stages of B-cell differentiation, and that KMS-5 represents a relatively early stage of B-cell differentiation. All the cell lines lacked Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen, showed abnormal karyotypes of human origin, and differed from each other in the isozyme patterns examined. Only KMS-5 was tumorigenic when transplanted subcutaneously into nude mice.
4296114| The effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on the mRN A levels of c-fos, N-myc, -actin and prolactin (PRL) were studied in GH3/B6 cells, a rat pituitary cell line. TRH has previously been shown to increase biosynthesis and release of PRL, and to stimulate PRL gene transcription (13,19) in these cells. All experiments were performed on quiescent serum-deprived cells, and under these conditions, addition of TRH stimulated PRL production but did not alter cellular proliferation. Simultaneously, TRH induced time- and concentration-dependent increases in c-fos and -aetin mRNA levels, with peak responses at 30 min and 4 h, respectively, in a dose range from 1 nM to 100 nM. The TRH effects on N-myc mRNA levels were less consistent. Addition of serum to quiescent GH3/B6 cells induced (3-5 fold) increases in c-fos, -actin and PRL mRN As which differed in magnitude and kinetics when compared to TRH stimulation. Serum did not alter N-myc mRNA levels. The TRH-induced increases in c-fos and -actin mRNA may play a role in the secretory response. 
20171387|Studies of bovine carotid artery smooth muscle cells, during long-term in vitro subcultivation (up to 100 population doublings), have revealed phenotypic heterogeneity among cells, as characterized by differences in proliferative behavior, cell morphology, and contractile-cytoskeletal protein profiles. In vivo, smooth muscle cells were spindle-shaped and expressed desmin and alpha-smooth muscle actin (50% of total actin) as their predominant cytoskeletal and contractile proteins. Within 24 h of culture, vimentin rather than desmin was the predominant intermediate filament protein, with little change in alpha-actin content. Upon initial subcultivation, all cells were flattened and fibroblastic in appearance with a concommitant fivefold reduction in alpha-actin content, whereas the beta and gamma nonmuscle actins predominated. In three out of four cell lines studied, fluctuations in proliferative activity were observed during the life span of the culture. These spontaneous fluctuations in proliferation were accompanied by coordinated changes in morphology and contractile-cytoskeletal protein profiles. During periods of enhanced proliferation a significant proportion of cells reverted to their original spindle-shaped morphology with a simultaneous increase in alpha-actin content (20 to 30% of total actin). These results suggest that in long-term culture smooth muscle cells undergo spontaneous modulations in cell phenotype and may serve as a useful model for studying the regulation of intracellular protein expression.
20171554|Two fibroblastic cell lines were established from explants of fibropapillomas of each of two different green turtles (Chelonia mydas). These cells, designated GTFP (Green Turtle Fibropapilloma), were subcultured approximately 30 times at 30 C in Eagle's minimal essential media supplemented with 2 to 10% fetal bovine serum. The ultrastructural morphology of the cultured fibroblasts is described. The cells contained abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum, polyribosomes, and mitochondria; collagen fibrils were visible in the extracellular space. No viruslike particles or evidence of other pathogenic agents could be demonstrated by electron microscopy in any of the cultured cells examined.
4296098|
               
4295792| Treatment of cultured HeLa cells with 5 mM sodium butyrate causes an inhibition of growth as well as extensive chemical and morphological differentiation. Lysosomal enzyme activity changes have been associated with both normal and neoplastic growth as well as many aspects of the neoplastic process. The comparative ultrastructural results show that the butyrate-treated cells have a more extensive internal membranous system than the untreated cells, whereas other organelles seem unaffected by the butyrate treatment. Methods for the histochemical localization of lysosomal acid phosphatase show a twofold increase in particulate reaction product in the butyrate-treated HeLa cells. Isolation of lysosomes followed by a comparative enzyme analysis shows a two to three fold increase in acid phosphatase activity per cell after 24 h of butyrate treatment, as well as three to four fold increase in -glucuronidase activity. These increases reverse within 24 h of removal of the butyrate from the culture medium. These results as interpreted suggest that butyrate treatment may be preventing sublethal autolysis by arresting the leakage of the lysosomal enzymes from the lysosome into the cytosol and thus allowing the cell to chemically and morphologically differentiate. 
20171510| Because the measurement of aromatase activity in cultured human genital skin fibroblasts has been proposed as a means of studying estrogen production in men, we investigated the influence of culture conditions on aromatase activity. Genital skin fibroblasts were seeded onto culture plates at a density of 1  10 cells/plate and aromatase activity was determined over a 1-mo. period. Enzyme activity rose slowly over the first 14 d but then rose rapidly to a 10-fold higher plateau by Day 28. The rise in aromatase activity was similar whether activity was normalized for protein or for DNA content. When cells were seeded at the usual density of 1  10 or at 0.25  10 cells/plate, aromatase activity was consistently lower during the first 2 wk in cells plated at lower density, but thereafter the levels of enzyme activity in the two groups converged. In cells plated at the lower density, the lower activity observed in the first 2 wk was associated with a lower
4295721|A quick and simple method for the establishment of tissue cultures of nonembryonic domestic fowl melanocytes was desired. The selected source of these cells was the 14-d-old regenerating feather. Three procedures were compared on the basis of the yield and purity of melanocytes. For the first method, 2 mm of the proximal end of the feather was cut off under sterile conditions and placed immediately in Hanks' balanced salt solution (BSS) containing antibiotics. The feather was split longitudinally and the pulp removed. The tissue was placed pulp side down in several drops of Ham's F12 medium containing
4296332|The combination (1:1) of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Waymouth's medium MAB 87/3 was found to provide favorable conditions for serum-free culture and growth of adult rat hepatocytes. In this simple medium, a majority of hepatocytes stimulated by epidermal growth factor plus insulin entered S phase and divided, with a normal (13 h) interval between DNA synthesis and cell division. The proliferative response did not require extra substratum or the presence of serum, even during cell isolation and plating.
20171556|Gamma irradiation and ethanol stress treatments redirected pollen development to an embryo formation pathway in Brassica napus. Less than 0.01% of microspores developed into embryos at 25 C compared to approximately 2% at 32 C. However, subsequent to gamma irradiation and ethanol treatments up to 1% and 0.7% of microspores formed embryos at 25 C, respectively. Gamma irradiation also enhanced embryogenesis at 32 C. The possible importance of these findings is discussed in relation to microspore embryogenesis.
20171481|During the course of investigating the growth and differentiation of opossum kidney cells in serum-free medium, it was observed that a mycoplasma contamination (M. hyorhinis) contributed to the spreading of cells. Contaminated cells, seeded on collagen-coated plates, spread out and grew to confluency in Dulbecco's modified eagle's medium/Ham's F12 nutrient mixture containing insulin, transferrin, sodium selenite, and bovine serum albumin fraction V. In addition, differentiated characteristics, including parathyroid hormone-inhibitable, sodium-dependent phosphate transport, were expressed by these cells grown in this medium. After the infection was eradicated, the contamination-free cells would not spread out and proliferate in the same serum-free medium as they had done in the presence of mycoplasma. Normal cellular development, however, was attained after cells were plated in serum-free medium that included fetuin. Cells once again spread out, grew to confluency, and were able to express their differentiated characteristics.
20171525|Increasing doses of Bacillus sphaericus toxin were used to select a toxin-resistant cell line from the Culex quinquefasciatus line. This resistant cell line was proven to be C. quinquefasciatus in origin by isozyme analysis and karyotype. The resistant line bound fluorescent-labeled toxin as did the unselected susceptible line. A high level of resistance was quickly achieved, and this level was maintained after 4 mo. culture in the absence of toxin.
4296567|We investigated the ability of fetal rat bone cells isolated after collagenase digestion to differentiate in vitro and to produce a mineralized matrix on coral granules. Scanning electron microscopy examination of the surface of the seeded coral granules revealed that cells attached, spread, and proliferated on the material surface. Bone nodule formation was studied in this in vitro system by direct examination under an inverted phase contrast microscope. The initial event observed was the appearance of cells with phosphatase alkaline activity arranged in several layers and forming a three-dimensional organization around the coral particles. By Day 7, nodule formation began and a refringent material appeared and extended to the background cells during the following days. By Day 15, some coral granules were embedded in a mineralized matrix. Histologic results demonstrated the formation of a mineralized tissue with the appearance of woven bone.
4295736|Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been shown to stimulate DNA synthesis in rat parenchymal hepatocytes both in vivo and in vitro (4,9). We report here that this response in vitro is dependent on the amino acids present in the media. Of all the amino acids, proline has the strongest effect. The response to EGF is absent without proline and none of the other amino acids can substitute for it. Added proline (1 mM) to the media caused the labeling index to increase from 11% to 55% in the presence of 50 ng/ml EGF and insulin. In the presence of proline, small additional increases of the EGF effect on DNA synthesis were stimulated by phenylalanine and tyrosine.
4296637|A new three-dimensional human skin model consisting of several layers of actively dividing and metabolically active human neonatal foreskin-derived fibroblasts and epidermal keratinocytes grown on nylon mesh has been used to assess the in vitro toxicity of test agents from various classes. Utilizing a slight modification of the published neutral red viability assay for endpoint determination, we have assayed and obtained dose-dependent toxicity curves for test agents from the following classes: detergents (n = 15), alcohols (n = 5), metal chlorides (n = 10), perfumes and colognes (n = 5), shampoos (n = 4), conditioners (n = 3), moisturizers (n = 3), pesticides (n = 3), and antimicrobial preservatives (n = 4). Limited comparisons to in vivo ocular irritancy data with alcohols and detergents are encouraging. We have demonstrated the utility of this metabolically active dermal substrate containing naturally secreted collagen and other extracellular matrix proteins along with the neutral red viability assay for assessing the toxicity of a number of test agents from a variety of different classes with broad industrial applications.
4296939|Using clonal cell lines isolated from murine neuroblastoma C1300, we investigated the mitochondrial changes related to neuronal differentiation and, more generally, the role played by the mitochondrion in this phenomenon. By different approaches (measurement of the mitochondrial mass, immunoquantification of specific mitochondrial proteins, or incorporation of Rhodamine 123), the differentiation of the inducible clone, N1E-115, was found associated with an important increase of the cellular content in mitochondria. This increase could be observed with differentiating N1E-115 cells maintained in suspension, i.e. under conditions where neurite outgrowth is prevented but other early stages of (biochemical) differentiation continue to occur. That these mitochondrial changes are likely to be correlated with these stages of neuronal differentiation, rather than with simple progression to the postmitotic stage, stems from comparative experiments with clone N1A-103, a neuroblastoma cell line variant that becomes postmitotic after induction but fails to differentiate and shows no modification in its cellular content in mitochondria. In accordance with these observations, chloramphenicol prevents differentiation when added together with the inducer. This effect is probably related to the inhibition of mitochondrial translation rather than to modification of the bioenergetic needs because oligomycine, a potent inhibitor of the mitochondrial ATP synthetase, shows no effect on neurogenesis. As a working hypothesis and in keeping with independently published models, we postulate that products resulting from mitochondrial translation could be involved in the organization of the cytoskeleton or of certain membrane components whose rearrangements should be the prerequisite or the correlates to early stages of neuronal differentiation.
4296879|The molecular mechanisms that regulate the synthesis of salivary proteins are unknown. The paucity of homogeneous cell populations of parotid acinar cells has become a limiting factor for such a study. Therefore, the establishment of immortalized clones of acinar cells is essential. This study has established primary cultures of rat and human parotid epithelial cells that are suitable for transfection with plasmid vectors, pSV2, pSV3, and pSV5 to generate immortalized cells in vitro. Among various techniques used, the rat and human parotid tissue or cellular clumps when restrained in chicken plasma clot allowed the outgrowth of epithelial cells that maintained epithelial cell morphology for over 4 wk. However, the initial growth requirements for rat and human parotid cells were different. The presence of 10% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum in supplemented MCDB-LB medium was essential for the outgrowth of rat parotid epithelial cells, but this was not needed for the outgrowth of human parotid epithelial cells. The growth of both human and rat parotid epithelial cells can be maintained in serum-free supplemented MCDB-LB. These primary cultures contained amylase-producing cells as demonstrated by immunofluorescent technique, and they were transfected with pSV2, pSV3, and pSV5 using primarily the calcium phosphate-DNA co-precipitation technique. After initial extensive cell death, many cells with epithelial cell morphology survived.
20171449| A muscle cell strain capable of forming contracting myotubes was isolated from an established rat embryo cell line. The myogenic cells, termed rat myoblast omega or RMo cells, have a diploid complement of chromosomes (n = 42). In the presence of mitogen-containing growth medium, RMo cells proliferated with a cell generation time of about 12 hours. In mitogen-depleted medium, RMo cells withdrew from the cell cycle and formed myotubes that spontaneously contracted. Differentiated RMo cells produced creatine kinase isozymes in a ratio characteristic of skeletal muscle cells. RMo cells were easy to cultivate. Cells proliferated and differentiated equally well on gelatin-coated or noncoated culture dishes, at clonal or mass culture densities, and in all basal media tested. In most experiments, growth medium consisted of horse serum-containing medium supplemented with either chicken embryo extract or FGF activity; cells proliferated equally well in medium containing unsupplemented calf serum. RMo cells differentiated if growth medium was not replenished regularly. Alternatively, differentiation was induceable by incubation in mitogen-depleted medium consisting of basal medium supplemented either with 10 M insulin, 0.5% serum, or 50% conditioned growth medium. RMo cells were competently transformed with cloned exogenous genes. Because it forms functional myofibrils, the RMo cell line constitutes a useful model system for studying the cell biology and biochemistry of proteins involved in contractile apparatus assembly and muscle disease. 
4296550|Amiprilose hydrochloride, a 3-substituted glucose derivative, was found to inhibit the proliferation of human fibroblasts and keratinocytes originating from psoriatic lesions. Fibroblasts and keratinocytes were obtained from skin biopsies of normal donors, and from the biopsies of active/involved and uninvolved sites of psoriatic donors. The cells were cultured as monolayers or as components of tissue equivalent models. Keratinocytes and fibroblasts originating from biopsies of psoriatically involved areas were shown to proliferate at a significantly higher rate than those derived from uninvolved areas. The antiproliferative effect of amiprilose hydrochloride was not observed with normal keratinocytes or fibroblasts from the skin of healthy donors or from uninvolved areas of psoriatic donors. Amiprilose hydrochloride was not cytotoxic to any of these cells at levels below 0.1%. The combination of the low cytotoxicity and the selective antiproliferative effect indicates that this compound may be a useful antipsoriatic agent. The use of monolayer cultures and tissue equivalent models in this study illustrates the utility of such a progressive strategy in the evaluation of potential topical pharmaceuticals.
20171390|Heliothis cell lines originated from different laboratories were characterized by isoenzyme analysis and then evaluated for their ability to produce the single nuclear polyhedrosis virus of Heliothis zea (HzSNPV). A cloned cell line (designated Hzlb3), whose homogeneity was supported by both morphological and isoenzyme analysis, was derived from a parental line (Hzl). Significantly greater yields (about 10-fold) of tissue-culture-derived, non-occluded virus (TCNOV) were obtained when compared to the parental line. The Hzlb3 clone also gave significantly higher yields of TCNOV than the Hz3 and UND-K cell lines. Although lines Hzl, Hz3, and Hzlb3 produced significantly more polyhedral inclusion bodies (PIB) than line UND-K, the infectivity of PIB from UND-K equaled that of lines Hzl and Hzlb3.
4296616|Three squamous carcinoma cell lines HBPC-1, HBPC-2, and HBPC-3 were established from hamster buccal pouch tumors induced by topical 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) treatment alone, topical DMBA treatment in conjunction with type 1 herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) inoculation, and topical DMBA application in combination with type 2 HSV (HSV-2) inoculation, respectively. The cells were epithelial in morphology, had a doubling time of approximately 18 h, and required bovine serum for optimal growth. They demonstrated an in vitro anchorage-independent growth and produced squamous cell carcinomas when transplanted into normal hamster pouch submucosa. The carcinoma cell lines equally expressed cellular hst, src, abl, and raf proto-oncogenes that were not expressed in the normal hamster pouch epithelial cells. An equal amount of fos gene expression was noticed in the normal pouch epithelial cells, HBPC-1 and HBPC-3, but the HBPC-2 expressed less fos poly(A
4295764|The influence of the extracellular matrix (ECM) glycoproteins collagen IV, laminin (LN), and fibronectin (FN) on the in vitro migration of epithelial cells was studied using the ECM migration track method (4) with preparations immunostained for LN and FN. The locomotion of rat liver epithelial cells stimulated to migrate in serum-free medium by epidermal growth factor (EGF) in the presence of insulin is inhibited by substratum-bound FN. The inhibition is concentration-dependent up to
4295852|Elastin accumulation in the extracellular matrix of cultured rat aortic smooth muscle cells was monitored as a function of age. The effect of the animal donor age and time in culture in single or consecutive passages on the cells' ability to accumulate total protein as well as elastin was evaluated. Smooth muscle cells were obtained from animals ranging in age from 2 d to 36 mo. Protein accumulation by the cells based on DNA content was similar regardless of which of the above aging parameters was examined. Although there were significant amounts of elastin present in the extracellular matrix of those cells originating from the younger animals (2 d and 6 wk old), little or none was detected in cell cultures derived from the oldest animals. A soluble elastin-like fraction which was isolated from the cultures of the 2-d-old rats seemed to be lacking in the cultures of cells from the 36-mo-old animals. This observation may, in part, explain the absence of insoluble elastin in the matrix of some cultures obtained from older animals. The data strongly suggest that the age of the donor animal from which the cells originate has the greatest influence on in vitro elastin accumulation.
4296974|Normal human mesothelial cells (NHMC) were isolated from pieces of human omentum. The cell yield was approximately one million cells per square centimeter omentum. The mesothelial cells were identified by their positive staining with monoclonal antibodies against cytokeratins 6 and 18. Transmission electronmicroscopy of cultured NHMC revealed many microvilli on the apical surface and many mitochondria and pinocytotic vesicles in the cytoplasm, indicating active transmembrane transport. Growth of NHMC was directly related to the concentration of human serum or of fetal bovine serum in the growth medium. Addition of epidermal growth factor with or without hydrocortisone resulted in a significant increase of NHMC growth; when endothelial cell growth factor, insulin, or hydrocortisone were added no such increase was observed. Seeding NHMC at densities less than
4296606|We have developed a novel, "in situ" translation system derived from cultured cells that are subject to mild detergent extraction. By using a low concentration of nonionic detergent to gently permeabilize cells while they remain adherent to a substrate, cytoskeletal frameworks are obtained that are devoid of membraneous barriers yet retain much the same topological arrangement of mRNA, ribosomes and cytostructure that exists "in vivo". Data indicate that when these cytoskeletal frameworks are supported by a ribosome-depleted, nuclease-treated, reticulocyte lysate supernatant, they are capable of resuming translation of their attached polysomes for at least 40 minutes. Emulsion autoradiography of ongoing protein synthesis demonstrates that protein synthetic activity is ubiquitous throughout the population of extracted cells, and not confined to a less well-extracted subset. Computer-assisted, two-dimensional gel analysis reveals that the pattern of proteins produced by such extracted cells is approximately 70% coincident with that produced by unextracted cells, including proteins of molecular weight as great as 200 kilodaltons. Furthermore, a continued increase in intensity of almost all proteins during the first 40 minutes of translation suggests that translational re-initiation, in addition to polysome run-off, is also taking place. Collectively, these findings indicate that much of the translational machinery remains both intact and competant in this cytoskeletal-based translation system. As such, this system should prove extremely useful in identifying molecular factors operant during certain types of translation control and in further examining the role played by the cytoskeleton in regulating gene expression.
4296752|It has been suggested that the generation of toxic radicals plays an important role in toxicity by Adriamycin (ADR) on cancer cell lines and in vivo. We have examined the role of free radicals in determining toxicity and resistance to ADR of rat glomerular epithelial cells in culture; this method provides a good model for analyzing the mechanisms responsible for ADR experimental nephrosis in rats. Three points were established: a) the intra- or extracellular site of ADR toxicity; b) the role of the superoxide anion and of the hydroxyl radical in determining intra- and-extracellular cytotoxicity; and c) the implication of oxido-reduction cycling as a potential route for ADR semiquinone transformation. Free ADR was found to induce the same inhibition of [
4296170|The mechanism of induction of tubular outgrowths in vitro on floating collagen gels and the influence of extracellular factors on this process have been investigated using the clonal rat mammary epithelial cell line, Rama 25. Growth of Rama 25 on such floating gels causes their contraction. Contraction of the gel is accompanied by a 10-fold increase in the number of cells per unit area, a change in cell shape, and a convolution of the epithelial cell sheet. Gels folded over manually show an 11-times higher incidence of tubules along the folds than on the flat surface. Tubular formation begins when cords of cells develop from local proliferations of the cell sheet and become canalized. Tubules follow wrinkles in the gel and branch to yield monopodial, dichotomous, or lobular architecture. Hydrocortisone and insulin, in the presence of serum, stimulate both narrow and thick tubular structures on folded gels, whereas extra additions of 1 ng/ml cholera toxin or 100 ng/ml epidermal growth factor preferentially stimulate thick tubular structures. Floating glutaraldehyde-fixed gels, very thick collagen gels, and collagen gels prepared on the top of rigid steel grids fail to support the formation of tubules, suggesting that flexibility and access of the medium to basal surfaces are important to their genesis. Incorporation of hyaluronic acid into the gel matrix preferentially inhibits the thick tubular outgrowths. Thus, the branching tubular structures generated by Rama 25 can be influenced in different ways by various extracellular factors in the medium and in the gel.
4296106|Cultures of umbilical vein endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells were studied in a constant pressure chamber. The following results were obtained: (a) Endothelial cell growth was maximal at 80 mmHg and minimal at 0 mmHg (atmospheric pressure) for the first 2 d of incubation. However, these growth rates were reversed during the following 6 d because of steady increase in growth at 0 mmHg, and a decrease in growth at higher pressures. A degeneration of endothelial cells began at 120 mmHg and marked degeneration was noted at 160 mmHg. Growth of smooth muscle cells was not influenced by ambient pressure and a steady increase in labeled nuclei continued throughout the period of culture, (b) Elastin, stainable with tannic acid, was noted electronmicroscopically in both endothelial and smooth muscle cells. (c) Production of prostacyclin by endothelial cells was maximal at 0 mmHg and minimal at 80 mmHg, in contrast to the growth pattern of these cells. Production of thromboxane B
4296748| Early passage bovine brain capillary endothelial cells were immortalized by transfection with the plasmid pSV3 neo. Cells from one clone, SV-BEC, expressed nuclear SV 40 large T antigen, displayed a contact-inhibited and anchorage-dependent proliferation, and a high sensitivity to the addition of exogenous basic fibroblast growth factor. SV-BEC cells are morphologically unaltered and express typical markers of endothelial cells: Factor VIII-related antigen, angiotensin-converting enzyme and Griffonia simplicifolia agglutinin binding site. Endothelium like immunoreactivity was detected in the conditioned medium from these cells. Moreover, SV-BECs present numerous intercellular tight junctions characteristic of the blood-brain barrier and possess functional 1- and 2-adrenergic receptors, as observed on isolated bovine brain capillaries. 
4296409|Smooth muscle cells were cultured from pig aorta. Changes in both the growth and the properties of sulfated proteoglycans were observed during passage. The population doubling time during log phase growth was 34 h from Passages 3 to 7-8 but 20 h at the Passage 11, and the cell density at the stationary phase, was
4296694|Mycoplasmal infection of cell cultures remains a significant threat to diagnostic and research procedures. In certain defined situations, curing of mycoplasmal infected cultures is a reasonable exercise. Four methods of curing were compared: treatment with BM-cycline, 5 bromouracil, use of specific antisera and treatment of infected cells suspended in soft agar with antibiotics. Antisera treatments were of low efficiency of curing: 50%. None of nine infected cell lines treated with 5-bromouracil were consistently cured of mycoplasmas. The use of BM-cycline was effective for some, but not all lines and required long periods of treatment, 12-21 days. 35 naturally or deliberately infected cultures were treated in soft agar a total of 119 times. This procedure which consisted of suspending infected cultures in soft agar containing appropriate antibiotics resulted in successful mycoplasmal elimination 118/119 times. This soft agar technique took 1-3 days. In separate studies, it was shown that certain Mycoplasma fermentans strains were resisted to this and other curing methods. This may be due to their intracellular location. Such strains may be more amenable to antibiotics that penetrate mammalian cells. It is concluded that the soft agar technique is a rapid, efficient and reliable method to eliminate cell culture mycoplasmas.
4296749|Salivary electrolyte secretion is under the control of the autonomic nervous system. In this paper we report that HSY, an epithelial cell line derived from the acinar-intercalated duct region of the human parotid gland, responds to muscarinic-cholinergic (generation of Ca
4296361|Using innovative approaches, we addressed several problems often associated with in vitro chemosensitivity testing of individual human tumors: 1) obtaining a high rate of evaluability; 2) excluding participation of nonmalignant stromal and vascular components usually present in tumor specimens; 3) preserving cell-to-cell interactions present in the original tumor; 4) assessing drug-induced cytotoxicity without sacrificing the tumor culture. To circumvent these problems, tumor specimens were processed as follows: i) tissue (fresh or cryopreserved) was mechanically or enzymatically dissociated under mild conditions into cellular clusters (termed micro-organs); ii) large micro-organs were separated by a brief decantation, resuspended, and then exposed to fluorescein acetate to visualize (under naked eye) viable micro-organs; iii) fluorescent (i.e., viable) micro-organs were collected using a Pasteur pipette, and then planted on a solid support made of cellulose fibers impregnated with collagen. Since tumor micro-organs have been previously shown to consist solely of malignant cells, the procedure described here not only preserves a critical portion of the tumor architecture but eliminates at the onset necrotic tissue and nonmalignant cellular components that could interfere with the chemosensitivity testing. Drug-induced cytotoxicity was measured by "fluorescent cytoprinting", a novel, nondestructive procedure for assessing micro-organ viability in situ. The key feature of fluorescent cytoprinting is that cytotoxic effects are not measured against control cultures but against a baseline provided by a cytoprint of the same culture before drug addition. Using three experimental designs, we tested the potential of the method for clinical applications. The results using 469 human malignant tumors showed that the micro-organ culture assay can distinguish individual tumor chemosensitivity profiles with an overall success rate of 96%. For three commonly used chemotherapeutic drugs, the observed frequency of responding tumors was found to be comparable to previously reported clinical results using single agents.
20171576| Biliary epithelial cells (BEC) lining the intra-hepatic biliary ducts are the site of damage in several immunologically mediated liver diseases. BEC are difficult to isolate since they represent only 5% of the total cell number in normal liver. In this communication, a novel method for their isolation from normal liver is presented using a monoclonal antibody (HEA125) with specificity for an epithelial cell surface glyco-protein reported to be expressed in liver only by biliary epithelium. By combining differential density centrifugation and immuno-magnetic separation using HEA125 pure BEC (10 cells/g fresh tissue) were prepared routinely. These cells were maintained in culture for up to 4 weeks with significant increases in cell numbers. The ability to prepare BEC from human liver offers an opportunity to develop In Vitro models to investigate the aetiology of diseases of intra-hepatic biliary epithelium. 
4295903|Tracheas from vitamin A-deficient hamsters in organ culture in vitamin A-free medium developed squamous metaplasia. Addition of retinyl acetate to the medium prevented squamous metaplasia and a mucociliary epithelium was maintained. Indirect immunofluorescent staining with antikeratin antibodies AE1 and AE3 indicated positive reactions with epithelium of tracheas either cultured in vitamin A-free or retinyl acetate (RAc)-containing medium. The "stratum corneum"-like squames in metaplastic tracheas were strongly stained by AE3. Immunoprecipitation of cytoskeletal extracts from [
4296915|Expression of the RB tumor suppressor gene, whose function is putatively in controlling cell growth, may be regulated by S-phase specific inhibitors of DNA synthesis that are commonly used in cell synchronization and cancer chemotherapy. Relatively low concentrations of the agents, cytosine arabinoside, bromodeoxyuridine, 5-fluorouracil, hydroxyurea, methotrexate and retinoic acid, were tested. At low concentrations still permitting submaximal cell growth, these drugs all changed RB gene expression, causing either up or down regulation of RB expression to varying degrees. Despite their potential similarity as a class, the nucleotide analogues elicited differential effects. The drug-induced up or down regulation of RB expression did not correlate with changes in c-myc expression indicating that the changes are not a manifestation of general metabolic changes potentially associated with altered proliferation. Amongst the agents considered, retinoic acid was the only one that caused a significant parallel reduction in RB and c-myc expression in the HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells tested. The results thus show that even low concentrations of DNA synthesis inhibitors can have unpredictable affects on expression of growth regulatory genes.
4296607|In this paper, we describe a simple technique to introduce DNA into cells through cracks and/or pores in cell membranes caused by intracellular ice crystal formation induced by liquid nitrogen. We mixed mouse BALB 3T3 cells and pSV2-neo DNA and froze the cell suspension under various conditions to determine those optimum for the introduction of DNA into mammalian cells. We found that brief treatment with liquid nitrogen, which showed only moderate cell killing, resulted in the induction of G-418 resistant colonies. These results suggest that this new technique is useful for transfection of genes into mammalian cells.
20171372| Stimulation of human arterial endothelial cells with heparin-binding growth factor-1 (HBGF-1) resulted in a 40% to 60% increase in the cellular adenylate cyclase activity and intracellular cAMP content. The stimulatory effect of HBGF-1 was effectively suppressed by pretreating the cells with transforming growth factor- (TGF-), an endothelial cell growth inhibitor. The inhibition of the adenylate cyclase activity precedes growth inhibition by at least 24 h. The half maximal inhibitory dose was calculated to be 0.2 ng/ml for the inhibition of both cyclase activity and cell growth. The possible role of the adenylate cyclase suppression in growth inhibition by TGF- is discussed. 
4296423|Norepinephrine stimulates the growth in size of nondividing neonatal cardiocytes. During this time the neonatal cardiocyte is in a period of transition in which the cell can synthesize DNA and yet does not divide. Because the cell undergoes karyokinesis without cytokinesis the objective of this study was to determine whether the norepinephrine-induced growth in size of the neonatal cardiocyte was accompanied by an increase in a) the number of cardiocytes synthesizing DNA, b) the number of binucleate cardiocytes, and c) organized myofibrils. One- to four-d-old neonatal rat heart cells were isolated and placed in serum-free medium which was then supplemented with serum, norepinephrine, norepinephrine plus propranolol, or isoproterenol. After 4 d the number and size of the cells was determined using a Coulter counter. In other cultures cardiocytes were fixed on Days 0, 1, 2, and 4, and an increase in the number of binucleate cardiocytes was found in all treatment groups including controls. However, the rate of binucleation was faster in the norepinephrine group. It was also determined by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) antibody staining that by Day 4, over 50% of the cardiocytes were in the cell cycle. The percentage of cells in which PCNA could be detected was higher in the norepinephrine and norepinephrine plus propranolol groups. Furthermore, there was a concomitant increase in the amount and organization of myofibrils in the catecholamine-treated cardiocytes.
4296120|The concentration of each of 10 pesticides (azinphosmethyl, captan, carbaryl, chlordimedorm, dichlorvos, dimethoate, fenvalerate, methomyl, methyl parathion, trichlorfon) causing a 50% inhibition (ID
4296182|Cell suspensions prepared by collagenase digestion of pancreases obtained from rat fetuses (21.5 d old) and newborns (2.5 d old) were mixed with a collagen solution and inoculated on a collagen base layer. At the onset of the culture, most acinar cells became necrotic, whereas other epithelial cells proliferated. Most of the cell clusters arranged themselves into simple polarized structures composed of epithelial cells forming hollow spheres, and from these budded neoformed endocrine islets. Scarce fibroblasts were located close to these structures. Immunocytochemical localization of insulin and glucagon, as well as ultrastructural characteristics of the cell types revealed an intrainsular distribution similar to the in vivo localization. Tridimensional matrix of collagen offers, to perinatal pancreatic cells in culture, an environment close to the in vivo conditions: cells reorganize themselves in tissuelike structures and cell interactions concerned in the cytodifferentiation of pancreatic islets occur. This system allows for the study of undifferentiated epithelial cells-the presumed stem cells-differentiating and differentiated endocrine cells in the same preparation.
4296549|Our laboratory has been involved in finding optimal conditions for producing dermal and skin equivalents. As an original approach, a Box-Behnken experimental design was used to study the effects of the initial collagen and fibroblast concentrations and the initial gel thickness on the contraction of dermal and skin equivalents. The final surface area of dermal equivalent varied significantly with the initial concentration of collagen and fibroblast, whereas the initial thickness of gel had no appreciable effect on the contraction of the dermal equivalent. When keratinocytes were grown on these dermal equivalents they produced a very severe contraction, to an extent that all skin equivalents had a similar final surface area. This severe contraction was independent of collagen and fibroblast concentrations. Models for the prediction of the final percentage contraction of dermal and skin equivalents as a function of the initial concentration of collagen, the logarithm of fibroblast concentration, and the initial gel thickness were obtained and analyzed. Keratinocytes grown at the lowest seeding density did not contract the equivalents. However, histologic analysis has shown an incomplete coverage by these cells of the equivalents. The extensive contraction of the skin equivalent presenting adequate morphology is a major drawback toward its clinical utilization for burn wound coverage.
4295912| Recent studies in our laboratory have shown that five established rat hepatoma cell lines provide a wide spectrum of tumor-associated aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity representative of the range of activities of this enzyme seen in primary rat hepatocellular carcinomas. Four newly established rat hepatoma cell lines, RLT-2M, RLT-3C, RLT-9F, and RLT-5G, were derived from a primary hepatocellular carcinoma. The primary tumor was induced by a single injection of diethylnitrosamine (15 M/g body weight) to a 1-d-old female S-D rat followed at weaning by chronic phenobarbital treatment. RLT-2M was established from outgrowths of minced tumor pieces. RLT-3C, RLT-9F, and RLT-5G were cloned from RLT-2M by the serial endpoint dilution. All four lines have been maintained in culture for over 100 passages. The ALDH phenotype in both the primary tumor and the four new cell lines was determined by total activity assay, gel electrophoresis, and histochemistry. By total activity assay, the primary tumor did not possess significant tumor-ALDH activity. In contrast, the four new cell lines expressed tumor-ALDH activity. However, they differed in their basal ALDH activities and in ALDH inducibility by 3-methycholanthrene, benzo(a)pyrene, and phenobarbital. Additionally, significant decreases in tumor-ALDH activity occurred when cells from each line were passaged in vivo. The four lines have been characterized by light and electron microscopic morphology, tumorigenicity, chromosome number, doubling time, and colony formation efficiency in soft agar. 
4296222|Endothelial and smooth muscle cells were isolated from human adult large blood vessels to compare their proliferative response to hormones and growth factors. Neural extracts and the medium from differentiated hepatoma cells were used as concentrated sources of required hormones and growth factors that supported both cell types. Active hormones and growth factors were identified from the neural extracts and hepatoma medium by substitution or direct isolation and biochemical characterization. Epidermal growth factor, lipoproteins, and heparin-binding growth factors elicited growth-stimulatory effects on both endothelial and smooth muscle cells. Both types of human vascular cells displayed 7600 to 8600 specific heparin-binding growth factor receptors per cell with a similar apparent dissociation constant (Kd) of 200 to 250 pM. Heparin modified the response of both endothelial and smooth muscle cells to heparin-binding growth factors dependent on the type of heparin-binding growth factor and amount of heparinlike material present. In addition, heparin exerted a growth factor-independent inhibition of smooth muscle cell proliferation. Platelet-derived growth factor, insulinlike growth factors, and glucocorticoid specifically supported proliferation of smooth muscle cells with no apparent effect on endothelial cell proliferation. Growth-factorlike proteinase inhibitors had an impact specifically on endothelial cell proliferation. Transforming growth factor beta was a specific inhibitor of endothelial cells, but had a positive effect on smooth muscle cell proliferation. The results provide a framework for differential control of the two vascular cell types at normal and atherosclerotic blood vessel sites by the balance among positive and negative effectors of endocrine, paracrine and autocrine origin.
4295876| Adult bovine parathyroid glands were enzymatically dispersed and groups of 2 to 5 million cells were reassociated into multicellular aggregates (organoids) by rotation in roller tubes in serum-free medium. Fifty to seventy percent of the seeded cells were incorporated into each organoid at 3 d of culture, and in a typical experiment where DNA content was assayed before and after culture 49  3% of the original seeded DNA was present after 19 d of culture. No significant differences in DNA content were observed between experimental groups at any time of culture. The morphology of the cells in organoids was similar to that of cells in fresh tissue as determined by light and electron microscopy. The organoids secreted intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) and COOH-terminal hormone fragments which were similar to those released from monolayer cell cultures. Organoids maintained the ability to modulate PTH secretion in response to extracellular calcium for over 2 wk in culture. Each organoid was cultured separately and secreted PTH such that the mean standard deviation of secretion within groups on a per organoid basis was 16.3% of the mean. Using a perifusion system to study acute regulation over a 2-wk period of culture, PTH secretion was suppressed 58  4% by 2.5 mM compared to that at 0.25 mM calcium. To examine PTH secretion over a range of calcium concentrations, the perifusion system was used to apply 4-h linear gradients of decreasing calcium to fresh tissue slices and to organoids. The results indicated that the calcium (ionized) concentration at 50% secretory suppression (set-point) were 1.30  0.11 and 1.20  0.9 mM for the organoids and slices, respectively. Acute secretory control by calcium decreased after 14 d and was not detectable at 22 d of culture. The results demonstrated that the organoids maintained their differentiated function and tissuelike morphology for extended periods in vitro and therefore represent a suitable model system for studies on the long-term modulation of PTH secretion by vitamin D metabolites, ions, and other agents. 
4296639|Bovine somatotropin was given to six lactating (230 day) cows (40 mg/day x 5-days) and excipient was given to six control cows. Mammary, liver, and adipose explants from somatotrophin and control cows were co-cultured at 37 C for 24 h with
20171443|Arsenic-resistant Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells were established by progressively increasing the concentration of sodium arsenite in culture medium. One of the resistant clones, SA7, was also cross-resistant to As(V), Zn, Fe(II), Co, and Hg. The susceptibilities to sodium arsenite in parental CHO cells, revertant SA7N cells, and resistant SA7 cells were correlated with their intracellular glutathione (GSH) levels and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity. The resistance in SA7 cells was diminished by depletion of GSH in cells after treatment with buthionine sulfoximine. Furthermore, after reexposure of revertant SA7N cells to sodium arsenite, the intracellular GSH levels, GST activity, and resistance to sodium arsenite were raised to the same levels as SA7 cells. These data indicate that the elevation of intracellular GSH levels and GST activity in SA7 cells may be responsible for the resistance to arsenite. A p25 protein, which could be a monomer subunit of GST, accumulated in SA7 cells. In addition, an outward transport inhibitor, verapamil, indiscriminately increased the arsenite toxicity in resistant and parental cells.
20171448|The diagnosis of cancer is made on histologic examination by recognizing the characteristics of the malignant phenotype, i.e. abnormal cells in abnormal groupings, often in abnormal locations. Histophysiologic gradient culture reconstitutes conditions that meet the spatial imperatives of tissues in nature. A variety of carcinomas arise in the genitourinary system involving both glandular and stratified epithelium. To be considered here are the contrasting polarizations of proliferation of normal and neoplastic rat urothelium, the continuity of sheets of epithelium in nature, the poorly understood stable and unstable interepithelial boundaries, and the formation of organoid endocrinelike tissue in histophysiologic gradient culture of normal human amnion epithelium.
20171508| Human proximal tubule cell cultures exposed to doses of cadmium chloride (CdCl) between 0.05 g/ml and 0.5 g/ml exhibited alterations in cell membrane structure and transport function. At these Cd concentrations, cell numbers were not significantly altered from control values in either nonreplicating confluent, or actively replicating subconfluent cultures. Transmission electron microscopy revealed few alterations in cultures treated with 0.05 g/ml Cd. Tight junctions were intact; organelles and myeloid body formation appeared normal. Freeze fracture analysis confirmed the integrity of the tight junctions as well as increased numbers of vesicles or pits along the lateral cell membrane, indicating increased endocytotic activity. Cells exposed to 0.1 g/ml Cd were characterized by decreased numbers of microvilli and inhibited myeloid body formation. Cd doses of 0.5 g/ml elicited nuclear chromatin condensation, fragmented sealing strands in 5 to 10% of the tight junction profiles, sparse microvilli, and inhibited myeloid body formation. Electrophysiologic assessments of transport function by Ussing chamber analysis revealed decreases in transepithelial potentials for all three concentrations, with significant differences at Cd concentrations of 0.5 to 0.1 g/ml. Cells treated with 0.5 g/ml Cd also exhibited slight decreases in electrical resistance, consistent with the minimal fragmentation of sealing strands observed in freeze fracture replicas. Resistance in cultures treated with 0.1 or 0.05 g/ml Cd remained within control values and indicated that drops in potential difference and short circuit current in these cells reflected true alterations in ion transport. 
20171571|When apical meristems of carrot (Daucus carota L. cv. US-Harumakigosun) seedlings were cultured on hormone-free Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium with 0.7 M sucrose or 0.25 - 1 mM cadmium ion, then transferred to hormone-free MS medium with 0.1 M sucrose, somatic embryos were formed on the surface of the explants without visible callus formation. Somatic embryos were also formed on malformed seedlings, when carrot seeds were treated with hypochlorite solution at a high concentration and sown on hormone-free MS medium with 0.09 M sucrose. These somatic embryos were fractionated by passing through stainless steel sieves with different pore sizes, encapsulated in calcium alginate gel, and placed in plastic petri dishes under sterile conditions. These synthetic seeds germinated 1 to 2 weeks after the beginning of the culture. In the case of synthetic seeds containing a single embryo, the frequency of the seeds which developed both a radicle and a green bud was about 30-50% in large embryos induced by the treatment with sucrose, cadmium or sodium hypochlorite, and about 15% in 2,4-D induced embryos. When 2,4-D induced embryos were encapsulated and sown, numerous secondary and tertiary embryos were formed but they did not develop into normal seedlings.
4296338|We have isolated a continuous cell line from soft tissue lining the knee joints of rabbits. Designated HIG-82, this line was produced by spontaneous establishment of an aging, late-passage culture of primary cells. Like unpassaged, primary cells, HIG-82 cells can be activated by a number of stimuli, including phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), interleukin-1 (IL-1), and the endocytosis of latex beads. Activated cells secrete collagenase, gelatinase, caseinase (stromelysin), and prostaglandin E
4296586|Weibel-Palade bodies are ultrastructurally defined organelles found only in vascular endothelial cells. Because endothelium in corpo is very dispersed, isolation and further characterization of this organelle has been dependent on increasing the number of cells in culture. However, primary isolates of endothelial cells have a limited replication potential and tend to senesce in culture. In this report, EA.hy926, a continuously replicating cell line derived from human endothelium, is shown to contain Weibel-Palade bodies. Electron micrographs demonstrate the ultrastructural characteristics of these tissue-specific organelles and their cytoplasmic distribution in EA.hy926 cells. Von Willebrand factor, which has been shown to exist in Weibel Palade bodies, is demonstrated by immunofluorescence in discrete rod-shaped organelles whose size, shape, and distribution are consistent with that of Weibel-Palade bodies in primary endothelial cell cultures. Rapid release of von Willebrand factor can be induced by calcium ionophore, and large multimeric forms of the protein are found in EA.hy926 cells. These two properties are consistent with the function currently ascribed to Weibel Palade bodies: storage of multimerized von Willebrand factor. Thus ultrastructural, immunologic, and functional data establish the existence of this as yet poorly understood tissue-specific organelle in a continuous, vigorously replicating human cell line.
20171370| A diallel study involving reciprocal crosses of four genotypes (IR8, 36, 54, and 64) was carried out to understand the genetic mechanism of plant regeneration from immature embryo-calli in rice. Regeneration frequency (% of calli that produced plants) varied from a high of 86% for IR54 to a low of 0% for IR36, while regenerated plants per embryo numbered from 0 to 7 when these same IR lines and the F hybrids were compared. Combining ability analysis revealed that both nuclear (with both additive and dominant effects) and cytoplasmic genes are important in controlling regeneration in rice. Parental lines and F1 hybrids with high ability to regenerate were identified. 
4296479|The aminoglycoside antibiotic streptomycin is a known nephrotoxin in vivo and a common component of cell culture media. The effects of streptomycin (100 g/ml) on transepithelial electrical properties, glucose transport, glycolytic metabolism, and morphology were examined in primary proximal tubule cell cultures from winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus) kidney. Streptomycin treatment on either Days 2 to 12 or Days 8 to 13 abolished the transepithelial potential difference and short-circuit current across the monolayer but had no effect on transepithelial resistance in confluent 12 to 13-d cultures, suggesting the loss of active transepithelial transport. Consistent with these findings, mucosal-to-serosal glucose fluxes were greatly reduced in streptomycin-treated cultures and insensitive to the transport inhibitor phlorizin, indicating the absence of the apical Na-dependent glucose transport system associated with net glucose reabsorption. In addition to transport processes, antibiotic treatment also interfered with cellular energy metabolism as judged by the rapid reduction in glycolytic lactate production observed in the presence of streptomycin. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy revealed that streptomycin-treated cultures were composed of enboidal-to-columnar shaped cells which maintained intact tight junctions similar to control cultures. However, apical microvilli, the presumed sites of mucosal transport systems, were severely reduced in number in streptomycin-treated cultures. We concluded that streptomycin, at a dose commonly used in cell culture, inhibited the expression of differentiated function by flounder proximal tubule cell cultures. These cell cultures may provide a suitable model system for examination of the mechanisms of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity.
4296298|Conditions for arresting and stimulating the proliferation of the rainbow trout fibroblast cell line RTG-2 have been examined and the time course of events after stimulation determined. Quiescent populations were achieved in two ways. Cultures grown to confluency without a medium change for at least 7 d had fewer than 5% of the cells in S phase and few mitotic figures. Cultures deprived of serum, which could be done for up to 3 d without a loss in cell number, also achieved quiescence. After 3 d without serum, less than 1% of cells were in S phase and mitotic figures were infrequent. Addition to these cultures of fresh serum-containing medium brought about the synchronous entry of cells into S phase and mitosis. For cultures in which either the medium had been changed after 7 d without a change or serum-containing medium had been added after 3 d of serum deprivation, DNA synthesis increased after a lag period of 20 to 24 h, was pronounced between 30 and 45 h, and then declined. This was followed by a peak in the mitotic index. These protocols for arresting and subsequently stimulating RTG-2 proliferation should allow the G<sub>1</sub>-S transition to be studied in a representative of teleosts.
4296036| Somatic cell mutants resistant to drugs that interact with the eukaryotic ribosome provide a useful tool for studies on ribosome structure, function, and genetics. From Aedes albopictus (mosquito) cells, cycloheximide-resistant mutants (Cx-705 and Cx-738) that were about 30-fold more resistant to cycloheximide than the parental cells have been obtained. The observation that protein synthesis in cell-free lysates from Cx-705 and Cx-738 cells was resistant to cycloheximide led us to suspect that the alteration in these mutants might affect the ribosome. The present studies show that the cycloheximide-resistant cells grow poorly and eventually die at 34.5 C, a temperature at which wild-type cells grow normally. Relative to control cells, the cycloheximide-resistant cells show increased sensitivity to G-418, another antibiotic that interacts with the eukaryotic ribosome. However, there were no differences between cycloheximide-resistant cells and wild-type cells in sensitivity to puromycin, emetine, or cryptopleurine. Cx-705 cells were predominantly diploid; in contrast, the frequency of tetraploid nuclei in Cx-738 cells was about 40%. 
4296623|Microvascular endothelial cells from bovine adrenal medulla and brain and macrovessel endothelial cells from bovine aorta were isolated and cultured under similar conditions in order to determine morphologic and biochemical heterogeneity in vitro. All three cell types exhibited nearly identical ultrastructural morphology and two-dimensional gel protein patterns of
4295840|Primary rabbit tracheal epithelial cells growing on either plastic surface or collagen gel produce high molecular weight glycoconjugates. Biochemical characterization of these materials show they are exclusively hyaluronic acid when cells are grown on plastic surface, but a mixture of hyaluronic acid and mucin-like glycoproteins when grown on collagen gel. This research suggests that the substratum plays an important role in the maintenance or differentiation or both of mucous cells in culture.
4295970|Bovine tracheal submucosal gland cells have been isolated by enzymatic digestion and serially propagated in tissue culture for more than 12 mo. (40 passages). The cells exhibit an epithelioid appearance at confluence and contain alcian blue (pH 2.5)/periodic acid-Schiff-positive material within cytoplasmic granules. By electron microscopy numerous osmiophilic secretory granules are seen. Maximal growth is observed when the cells are grown on human placental collagen-coated culture vessels in medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum. Scintillation spectrometry revealed that radiolabeled precursor (
4296447|A new method was developed for rabbit skin organ culture. In a two-compartment model, skin discs were cultured on a Millicell-HA insert unit with a microporous membrane which allows transport of culture medium via the dermis into the epidermis, whereas the epidermal side remains free of direct contact with culture medium. In this relatively simple two-compartment organ culture model, rabbit skin could be cultured for 7 d in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum, or for 2 d in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with cofactors. The histomorphology and ultrastructure of 7-d cultured rabbit skin discs was essentially similar to that of freshly isolated rabbit skin. Keratinocytes in the stratum basale continued to divide during organ culture. The terminal differentiation of the epidermis continued in vitro as was found by the presence of keratohyalin granules, the intact stratum corneum, and keratin expression. Furthermore, glucose consumption continued until culture Day 7, but thereafter it declined rapidly. Concomitantly, degenerative changes were found. At the end of the 7-d culture period the distance between single dermal collagen fibrils had increased as compared to noncultured skin. This model of skin organ cultures can be used to study biological processes, dermal toxicity, and penetration and metabolism of xenobiotics in intact skin. Furthermore, within certain limits, processes responsible for repair and regeneration of damaged skin can also be studied in this model because the rabbit skin can be cultured for 7 d.
4295936| Bone marrow samples from patients with various hematologic disorders were stored at 4 C for up to 5 d before the establishment of a 24-h culture. We tested various factors, including storage time, colony stimulating factor, and methotrexate in an effort to improve metaphase and chromosome quality. Cytogenetic findings for various hematologic diseases were compared in a total of 201 cultures. Cold storage for up to 3 d did not seem to adversely affect the number of mitoses or the quality of chromosome banding when cells were cultured in a system that used both colony stimulating factor and methotrexate. In samples studied in parallel, clonal abnormalities were noted as frequently in cells stored in the cold as in those processed directly. 
4295855|Primary cultures of neonatal rat hearts contain both striated muscle (myocytes) as well as nonmuscle heart cells (NMHC). Although myocytes do not divide in culture, NMHC do increase in number, The growth of NMHC is dependent on the concentration of serum in the media over a range of 1 to 10%. When compared to growth in 10%, cells in 1% serum have a prolonged doubling time and reach a maximum density that is 70% less. Thus, 1% serum which supports normal myocyte development is a useful culture media to also maintain muscle heart cell homogeneity by its failure to support optimun NMHC division.
4295797| A Percoll density gradient was employed for selecting large numbers of viable insulin-producing RINm5F cells. Homogenates of these cells were then subjected to gradient centrifugation and two clearly visible bands were obtained. The light fraction was essentially composed of mitochondria banded at a density of about 1.06 g/ml. The heavier fraction banded at 1.09 to 1.10 g/ml and contained lysosomes and a small number of secretory granules. The distribution of Percoll particles was restricted to the extracellular space and there was no adsorption to any membrane structures. The distribution pattern of marker enzymes for the mitochondria and lysosomes was similar to that of normal pancreatic -cells. With the use of a Percoll density gradient it was thus possible to isolate a purified mitochondrial fraction from viable RINm5F cells. 
4296997|Fetal bovine serum (FBS) or heat-inactivated FBS (
4295958|Endothelial cells are subjected to fluid mechanical forces which accompany blood flow. These cells become elongated and orient their long axes parallel to the direction of shear stress when the cultured cells are subjected to flow in an in vitro circulatory system. When the substrate is compliant and cyclically deformed, to simulate effects of pressure in the vasculature, the cells elongate an orient perpendicular to the axis of deformation. Cell shape changes are reflected in the alignment of microtubule networks. The systems described provide tools for assessing the individual roles of shear stress, pressure, and mechanical strain on vascular cell structure and function.
4296750|Histophysiologic gradient culture methods reconstitute important spatial relationships that occur in nature between a parenchyma and its supporting stroma. At the epithelial-stromal interface, epithelia are firmly attached to the stromal substrate, initiation of renewal takes place, and metabolites are exchanged by a process of diffusion between epithelium and substrate. Other spatial imperatives characteristic of stratified epithelium are high density of cells, gradients of maturation, and continuity of epithelia along the entire course of the stromal-parenchymal interface. In radial gradient culture these relationships of epithelial cells, and supporting substrates are reconstituted. The culture chamber consists of a thin-walled cylinder, 2 to 3 mm in diameter and 3 cm long. The wall is a transparent collagen membrane in whose substance is embedded a reinforcing nylon mesh. To prepare a culture, one end of the cylinder is ligated, 1 or 2 particulate inocula are inserted in the open end of the cylinder, guided toward the ligature, and the open end is ligated. Subsequently, during incubation in a container with medium, the explants attach and proliferate. Proliferation and migration result in the cylinder being completely lined by a complex organoid tissue with structural characteristics of the original tissue. The tissue patterns in radial gradient culture of two human cell lines, RT-4, a bladder cancer, and 87x50, an ovarian cancer, are illustrated.
4296339|To study the interaction of migrating newt epidermal cells with purified extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules we have developed an in vitro migration assay using pieces of newt skin explanted onto culture dishes coated with various ECM molecules and cultured for 18 h in defined serum-free medium. Newt epidermal cells migrate out from explants placed on dishes coated with either collagen, vitronectin, fibronectin, or fibrinogen but not on albumin-coated or uncoated dishes. Explant outgrowth on collagen was best in CEM 2000 medium diluted to 60% of mammalian osmolarity. Other media such as RPMI 1640 or Ex-Cell 300, diluted similarly, may also be used although in our hands CEM 2000 always allowed more migration. We found no migration on collagen when skin explants were incubated in Holtfreter's solution (an amphibian saline solution that we have previously shown allows reepithelialization on amputated newt limbs). Supplementation of Holtfreter's solution with glucose did not improve its ability to support migration. By testing various supplement combinations in conjunction with CEM 2000 and RPMI 1640 we found that neither serum, insulin, selenium, transferrin, nor Irglutamine is required for explant outgrowth. Of the additives tested, outgrowth was stimulated only by insulin. Epidermal cell outgrowth on collagen was inhibited by both puromycin and cycloheximide, indicating the necessity for protein synthesis in this system. Whether the effects of these protein synthesis inhibitors are specifically on migration-related events or on general metabolic requirements is not clear. Inasmuch as there was no correlation (r = -0.227) between DNA synthesis (measured by incorporation of tritiated thymidine) and the amount of outgrowth, we believe that our assay is a measure of cell migration alone rather than a combination of mitosis and migration. This explant outgrowth system represents a new and relatively simple assay that can be used in the study of cell-substrate interactions during newt epidermal cell migration over extracellular matrix molecules in a defined serum-free environment.
4296026|This study measures the inhibition of
4296825| An efficient and reproducible technique for the transfection of primary cultures of adult mouse keratinocytes has been developed. The procedure involves culturing the primary adult mouse epidermal cells at 32 C in an enriched media until they reach 70 to 95% confluency, followed by transfection with exogenous DNA in a low potassium environment. Using chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) transient gene expression assays and various strong viral promoter/CAT constructs, the transfection procedure was optimized for media formulation, plasmid DNA concentration, carrier DNA concentration, incubation temperature, incubation period, and cell density. Optimized parameters include the use of 6 g plasmid DNA and 10 g pUC19 carrier DNA per 60-mm tissue culture dish. Since primary keratinocytes undergo a well-characterized pattern of differentiation in vitro in response to extracellular calcium concentrations, this transfection procedure should provide a useful model in which to study both tissue- and differentiation-specific gene expression. 
20171473|Neonatal rat cardiac myocytes were isolated and cultured to evaluate the effects of growth factors and inhibitors on proliferation, survival, and functions in a serum-free medium. Insulin and transferrin in MCDB 107 nutrient medium elicited DNA and protein synthesis in cells on a fibronectin-coated culture surface in serum-free medium. Insulin was most effective on both DNA and protein synthesis in serum-free culture conditions. The serum-free, hormone-supplemented medium eliminated the contamination of noncardiac myocytes and supported the long-term survival (over 18 d) of cardiac myocytes. Dexamethasone was required to induce optimal contractility with or without insulin and transferrin. Serum contained both negative and positive effectors of DNA and protein synthesis of the cardiac myocytes. Concentrations of serum (above 5%) inhibited DNA and protein synthesis. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) accounted in part for the inhibitory activity. The serum-free culture system provides a useful model to elucidate the role of hormones, growth factors, and drugs in heart cell regeneration and function.
4296432|Stable lines of gametophytic tissue of the fern Pteridium aquilinum resistant to streptomycin at 1.0 mg/ml were isolated without treatment with mutagens. The lines did not exclude the antibiotic, and were not found to be profoundly different from sensitive tissue at the ultrastructural level.
20171511|Cell lines with stable melanized phenotypes were isolated from a goldfish erythrophoroma cell line. These cell lines include several interesting phenotypes: a) reversible dedifferentiation and redifferentiation in response to withdrawal and addition of fish serum; b) irreversible dedifferentiation in response to withdrawal of fish serum; c) independence on fish serum for melanization; d) dependence on fish serum for growth; and e) pigment aggregation in response to epinephrine. We also report that cryopreservation of all the melanized cell lines, but not any of the unmelanized cell lines, requires the presence of fish serum. This raises the possibility that there may be advantages to use autologous serum for the cryopreservation of sensitive cell lines.
4296408| One-cell embryos from outbred mice (CF1, CD-1, and Dub:ICR) were cultured in various modifications of egg culture medium (ECM). The best development was observed in medium in which inorganic salts of modified T6 medium (mT6) replaced those of ECM. In this modification (TE), 66% of one-cell CF1 embryos developed into blastocysts, compared to 46 and 43% for ECM and mT6, respectively. Moreover, the cell numbers of blastocysts developing in TE (74.9  3.3) were higher than the cell numbers of those developing in ECM (55.1  2.4). The culture requirements of embryos varied between different stocks of mice: Fewer CF1 embryos developed to the blastocyst stage than either Dub:ICR embryos (90%) or CD-1 embryos (84%). Lowering the osmolarity of the medium from 300 to 280 mOSM, increasing the concentration of KCl from 1.42 to 25 mM, or omitting lactate from the medium during Day 1 of culture did not further improve development of embryos, in contrast to previous reports. However, the time at which embryos were transferred to outgrowth medium influenced their postblastocyst development. The best development was observed when embryos were transferred on Day 4 of culture at the late morula-early blastocyst stage. 
4296133|Lymphatic endothelial cells isolated from bovine mesenteric lymphatic vessels were cultured and characterized. Lymphatic endothelial cells grew as a monolayer displaying an elongated morphology in preconfluent primary cultures. When confluent, the cells exhibited a polygonal morphology to form a "cobblestone" pattern previously described for cultured vascular endothelium. All culture lymphatic endothelial cells expressed Factor VIII-related antigen and bound Ulex europaeus I lectin. Ultrastructurally, cultured lymphatic endothelium was characterized by the presence of Weibel-Palade bodies as well as the usual cytoplasmic organelles.
4296620| The growth of the endothelial cell (EC) is tightly regulated throughout the body. Many factors have been implicated in modulating EC growth including diffusible compounds, cell-to-cell interactions, and the extracellular matrix (ECM). Retinol, or vitamin A alcohol, has recently been shown to inhibit the growth of bovine capillary ECs, in vitro. Retinoids are known to modify ECM in other cell systems, and pure ECM components have been shown to effect EC growth rates. We, therefore, examined the role of the matrix in the retinol-induced inhibition of ECs. Cell-free matrices from control and vitamin A-treated ECs were prepared by removing cells with EGTA treatment after 7 d of culture. Matrix proteins were analyzed by solubilizing the matrices in 5 M quanidine-HCl and performing Western blot analysis using specific antibodies to matrix proteins. In isolating the ECM, we observed that retinol-treated cultures of ECs were resistant to EGTA removal; retinol-treated ECs required twice the exposure time to EGTA to detach from their matrix than did controls cells. Western blot analysis of matrix proteins derived from control and retinol-treated EC cultures demonstrated a 1.6-fold increase in laminin  chains and a 2.5-fold increase in fibronectin in the ECM of retinol-treated EC compared to control cell matrix. Functional properties of these matrices were assessed by plating control and Day 6 retinol-treated ECs onto the matrices and measuring attachment and growth by determining cell numbers at 24, 72, and 144 h. These studies revealed that control cells attached in greatest numbers to a control matrix whereas retinol-treated ECs preferentially attached to a matrix derived from retinol-treated cells. Furthermore, control ECs which grew rapidly on a control matrix were growth inhibited on a retinol-derived matrix. These data indicate that vitamin A treatment of ECs effects both their phenotype and influences the composition and the functional properties of their underlying ECM. These studies also demonstrate that alterations of the matrix are at least in part responsible for the growth inhibition of EC by retinol. 
4296356|The binding of human recombinant insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) to BALB/c 3T3 mouse embryo fibroblasts has been characterized, resulting in the development of a radioreceptor assay. Binding of radioiodinated IGF-I (
4296520|Multiple shoots were produced from cotyledonary node explants of pea (Pisum sativum L.) cultured on MS medium containing
4296352|Quiescent normal human mesothelial (NHM) cells will undergo one round of DNA synthesis when they are incubated in a defined medium consisting of LHC basal medium supplemented with hydrocortisone, insulin, transferrin, and one of the following peptide mitogens: epidermal growth factor; transforming growth factor beta (1 or 2); platelet derived growth factor (a,b heterodimer or b,b homodimer); fibroblast growth factor (acid or basic forms); interleukin 1 (alpha or beta forms); interleukin 2; interferon gamma; interferon beta; or cholera toxin. However, sustained cell multiplication does not occur unless the medium contains hydrocortisone, insulin, transferrin, any one of the above-listed peptide growth factors and high density lipoproteins. Growth can be increased twofold if the medium contains certain combinations of these mitogens and high density lipoproteins. The finding that NHM cells can respond to a broad spectrum of growth factors supports the possibility that an autocrine mechanism may be part of the mechanism that leads to transformation of these cells by asbestos.
4296070| The production of albumin, -fetoprotein (AFP), and -1 antitrypsin has been compared among human hepatoma cells cultured in medium containing serum, medium containing hormones and growth factors, and a basal medium containing selenium as the only supplement. Growth is sustained in all three media, and the expression of all three proteins was maintained for over 4 mo. in the various media. However, the quantitative production of albumin and AFP were dramatically different in the three media. Two hormones, insulin and triiodothyronine, influenced the level of secreted proteins. Triiodothyronine increases the amount of secreted albumin whereas insulin at 10 g/ml reduced the level of total secreted protein. 
4296604| This study demonstrates that retinoic acid (RA), an active metabolite of vitamin A, can act to enhance regeneration of neuntes, at physiologic concentrations, in vitro. Explanted fragments of mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and mouse and human spinal cord (SC) were maintained, in vitro, for periods up to 11 d. Murine DRG neurons were exposed to RA concentrations ranging from 100 M to 1 nM, whereas neurons within murine and human SC explants were exposed to 10 M to 10 nM RA. Results show that RA significantly (P < 0.001) increases mean neurite length but not neurite number. Specifically, murine DRG neurons showed increases in mean neurite length of 30.7% with individual explants showing increases of up to 133.5%. Murine and human SC showed mean enhancements of 43.4 and 58.1%, respectively, but did so at lower concentrations of RA. The results indicate that RA may play a potentially critical role in neuronal regeneration. 
4295873|Insulin, FeSO
4295837|A new cell line, designated SPC Gl 13, derived from dorsal vessels of larvae of Gromphadorhina laevigata has been established. The medium used is D. 73. The cells are fibroblastlike cells. Some of them are fixed; others, spindle-shaped or round, are in suspension. Most of the cells have the diploid chromosome number. The SPC G1 13 cell line is permissive to the chlamydia Rickettsiella grylli.
4296811|A model system for 3-dimensional "native-state" culture of tissues on collagen gels (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86:2013-2017; 1989) has been applied in this study to histologically normal human renal cortical tissue from 11 patients undergoing nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma elsewhere in the kidney. Microbial contamination occurred in 12/90 cultures, the rest (78) were studied by visual inspection, histology, immunohistochemical analysis for pankeratin (epithelial cell origin), vimentin (mesenchymal cell origin), and p-glycoprotein (associated with proximal tubules), transmission electron microscopy (EM), incorporation of tritiated thymidine (
4296764|A serum-free culture medium (defined medium = DM) was elaborated by adding to Eagle's minimum essential medium (MEM), non-essential amino acids, transferrin, putrescine, tripeptide glycyl-histidyl-lysine, somatostatin, sodium selenite, ethanolamine, phosphoethanolamine, sodium pyruvate, and metal trace elements. This medium was tested for its ability to support sustained surfactant biosynthesis in fetal alveolar epithelial type II cells. For up to 8 days, ultrastructure was maintained with persistance of lamellar inclusion bodies. Thymidine incorporation into DNA was enhanced about 50% in DM as compared with MEM, whereas it was enhanced 300% in 10% fetal bovine serum. With DM, the incorporation of tritiated choline into phosphatidylcholine (PC) of isolated surfactant material was about twice that with MEM. Deletion experiments evidenced the prominent role of pyruvate, transferrin, and selenium in the stimulation of surfactant PC biosynthesis. The addition of biotin to DM enhanced surfactant PC biosynthesis slightly and nonsurfactant PC biosynthesis markedly. The presence of nucleosides seemed unfavorable to the synthesis of surfactant PC. Type II cells responded to the addition of epidermal growth factor and insulinlike growth factor-I both by increased thymidine incorporation into DNA and choline incorporation into PC. It is concluded that DM represents a useful tool for cultivating type II cells without loss of their specialized properties and for studying the regulation of cell proliferation and surfactant biosynthesis in a controlled environment.
4296262|Monolayers of cultured epithelial cells have been prepared from fragments of guinea pig pancreatic excretory ducts isolated by a simple procedure employing collagenase digestion and manual selection, through which virtually all of the ductal system can be recovered. The isolated fragments were cultured in enriched Waymouth's medium on extracellular matrices of various composition and thickness, including; thin (< 5 Mm) and thick (0.5 mm) layers of rat tail collagen; thin layers of human placental collagen; thin layers of Matrigel (a reconstituted basement membrane material); uncoated tissue culture plastic; and the cellulose ester membranes of Millipore Millicells. Cells spread rapidly from duct fragments cultured on uncoated plastic or on plastic coated with thin layers of rat tail collagen or human placental collagen and formed epithelial monolayers. However, these cells were squamous and lacked the abundant basolateral membrane amplification and apical microvilli characteristic of freshly isolated duct epithelial cells. Cells did not spread from duct fragments cultured on Matrigel. In contrast, when fragments of pancreatic ducts were explanted onto either a thick layer of rat tail collagen or onto Millicell membranes, cells readily spread and formed confluent monolayers of cuboidal epithelial cells characterized by abundant mitochondria, apical microvilli, and basolateral plasma membrane elaboration. These results demonstrate that different forms of extracellular matrix modulate the growth and differentiation of pancreatic duct epithelial cells, and that culture on a permeable substrate markedly enhances the maintenance of differentiated characteristics in this cell type. The monolayers formed on Millicell membranes should provide a useful model system for physiologic analysis of the regulation of electrolyte secretion by this epithelium.
4296615|The transfer of chimaeric plasmids to Drosophila melanogaster cell lines has been examined as a system for investigation of the hormonal regulation of the genes coding for D. melanogaster yolk polypeptide 1 (YP1) and Locusta migratoria vitellogenin B (VgB). Constructs containing promoters and putative 5'-regulatory sequences from these genes, ligated to bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) coding DNA, were transfected into Drosophila Kc (Kc-H) and S3 cells, and transient expression of CAT was assayed. Activity was expressed both from the homologous promoter of pYP1CAT and from the heterologous locust promoter of pVgCAT at comparable levels. In S3 cells, with calcium phosphate-mediated transfer of pYP1CAT there was a twofold induction of CAT activity after the addition of 10
4296430|Insulinlike growth factors (IGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are produced in renal tissue, as are specific receptors for these hormones. To evaluate the significance of these observations to regulation of renal tubular cell proliferation, we have examined the interaction of IGF and EGF with cultured human proximal tubular epithelial cells (HPT). HPT cells showed specific binding of IGF-1, insulin, and EGF. IGF-1 binding was inhibited by antibody to the type 1 IGF receptor (<tex-math>$\alpha-IR3$</tex-math>). Insulin receptors and type 1 IGF receptors were identified by bifunctional cross-linking. IGF-1, insulin, and EGF stimulated [<sup>3</sup>H]thymidine incorporation by 77, 73, and 87%, respectively. Half maximal stimulation by IGF-1, insulin, and EGF was produced with <tex-math>$4 \times 10^{-9} M$</tex-math>, <tex-math>$2.5 \times 10^{-8} M$</tex-math>, and <tex-math>$8 \times 10^{-10} M$</tex-math> concentrations of these hormones. <tex-math>$\alpha-IR3$</tex-math> inhibited stimulation of thymidine incorporation by IGF-1 and insulin but had no effect in EGF-stimulated thymidine incorporation. EGF and high concentrations of insulin both stimulated cell proliferation by 83 and 79%, respectively. These data are consistent with regulation of tubular epithelial proliferation by IGF-1, insulin, and EGF and suggest that the mitogenic activity of both insulin and IGF-1 is mediated by the type 1 IGF receptor.
4296265|Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells lost volume when exposed to
4296342|Rat Virus, a parvovirus of rodents that produces a variety of developmental disturbances of the head and face in neonatal animals, was examined for its ability to replicate in neonatal calvariae in vitro. The bones were isolated and infected with RV within 1 d of birth and cultured for up to 7 d. Virus from the bones and supernatant was titered, and the cellular location of replication determined using in situ hybridization. The virus readily replicated in the isolated bony tissues, reaching liters of nearly 10
4296468|In an attempt to prolong the survival of the explanted early chick embryo heart, hearts at stages 10 to 28 were cultured in supplemented Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium with or without the perfluorocarbon, perfluorotributylamine. The perfluorocarbon was added to the standard culture medium in a 50:50 (vol/vol) mixture. Explants were evaluated daily and were harvested for light microscopy after 2 to 10 d in culture. The tubular shape of the explants was generally maintained for 2 d in culture, after which the hearts became dilated or spherical. Beating was noted in some of the explants on Day 2 in culture but not thereafter. Microscopic evaluation showed patchy areas of necrosis in all explants by Day 3, although large areas of viable epithelioid cells were documented as long as 7 d after explantation. Stage 16 to 18 hearts cultured in the presence of perfluorocarbon were more likely to maintain tubular architecture on microscopy than hearts cultured in standard medium. Hearts cultured from later stages showed no improvement in appearance with the presence of perfluorocarbon and there was a suggestion of increased necrosis in later-stage explants cultured with perfluorocarbon for 4 d. Further modification of the culture system will be required to prolong explant survival and development beyond 2 d.
4296777|Myocardial cell culture methods are now well established for animal and fetal human tissue. We present here a method for harvesting and culturing adult human atrial myocardiocytes. Cells are obtained from fresh atrial tissue normally discarded after being removed to cannulate the right atrium during open heart surgery. The atrial tissue is minced and then digested using collagenase. The single cell suspension is initially cultured in serum-containing growth medium, then transferred to defined medium, selective for myocardial cell growth. The cells are characterized by immunoperoxidase stains and transmission electron microscopy. The cultured cells stain positive for myoglobin, whereas control cultured fibroblasts and endothelial cells do not. Electron microscopy shows the presence of numerous myofibrils, Z-bodies, pleomorphic mitochondria, and secretory granules. The chronological age of the donor was an important factor in culturing the adult tissue, the younger tissue correlated with a higher success rate. This method provides a means for in vitro study of human adult myocardial cells and provides guidelines for appropriate atrial tissue to use.
20171532| The spinal cords of fetal NIH:CR mice, gestational age Day 12 to 14, were dissected free of meninges and dorsal root ganglia, chemically dissociated, and layered onto discontinuous Percoll gradients at densities 1.040, 1.050, and 1.060 g/ml. After centrifugation (800 g for 15 min at 4 C), three morphologically, biochemically, and immunohistologically distinct cell populations were collected from the gradient interfaces. The first interface, located at a density of 1.040 g/ml, was choline acetyltransferase enriched (0.86  0.08) compared to the second and third fractions (0.42  0.01 and 0 pmol acetylcholine synthesized/g protein, respectively). When simultaneously cultured with fetal mouse cardiac muscle on a gelatin-polylysine-laminin substrate in serum-free medium, these cells developed the characteristics of motor neurons. 
4295899|Ultrastructural characteristics of fetal rat brain cell aggregates in a three-dimensional stationary culture system are described. Transmission electron microscopy showed immature cells which developed into mature astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons during 20 d in culture. This was accompanied by the development of a neuropil where myelinated axons and synaptic complexes were observed. In addition to confirming earlier ultrastructural investigations on fetal rat brain cell Aggregates, the stationary culture system also showed the presence of histiotypic regions within the aggregates. These regions consisted of ependymal cells where cilia were observed on the cell surfaces. Structures resembling subependymal basement membrane labyrinths were also observed. Macrophages seemed to be more numerous in the stationary cultures as compared to other culture systems. The stationary culture system may provide aggregates that are ultrastructurally more complex than those obtained by rotation mediated systems.
4296359| The A431 cell line is composed of malignant keratinocytes derived from a vulval epidermod carcinoma. These cells have the peculiarity to stop their proliferation when they are treated with physiological concentrations of EGF, which is a mitogen for normal keratinocytes. We reported earlier that EGF induces involucrin accumulation in A431 cells and proposed that the arrest of proliferation triggers differentiation as shown by the induction of this cornified envelope precursor protein. To test this hypothesis, we compared the A431 subclone 15, which is not growth arrested by EGF-treatment, to the parental A431 cells. We found indeed that EGF reduces the involucrin content of clone 15 cells in a dose dependent manner. These opposite effects of EGF on the expression of terminal differentiation marker involucrin in A431 and A431 clone 15 keratinocytes were observed in defined medium as well as in presence of fetal calf serum. Nevertheless, when growth of parental A431 cells was inhibited by treatment with TGF- or simply when cultures reached confluency, no involucrin accumulation was observed. Therefore growth arrest per se is not directly correlated with the induction of differentiation. 
4296605|Human cardiac myocytes undergo degeneration, cytolysis, and necrosis in a number of clinical disease conditions such as myocarditis, dilated cardiomyopathy, and during episodes of cardiac allograft rejection. The precise cellular, biochemical, and molecular mechanisms that lead to such abnormalities in myocytes have been difficult to investigate because at present it is not possible to obtain and maintain viable cell cultures of human adult cardiac myocytes in vitro. However, human fetal cardiac myocytes are relatively easy to maintain and culture in vitro, but their limited availability and growth, variability from one preparation to another, and varying degrees of contamination with endothelial and epithelial cell types have made it difficult to obtain reliable data on the effect of cardiotropic viruses and cardiotoxic drugs on such myocytes. These thoughts prompted us to attempt to derive a cell line of human cardiac origin. Highly enriched human fetal cardiac myocytes were transfected with the plasmids pSV2Neo and pRSVTAg and gave rise to a cell line (W1) which has been maintained in culture for 1 yr. Morphologic and phenotypic analyses of W1 cells by flow microfluorometry and immunoperoxidase techniques indicate that the W1 cell line shares many properties of human fetal cardiac myocytes, but appears not to react with specific antibodies known to react with markers unique to human endothelial, epithelial, skeletal muscle, and dendritic cells. These preliminary data suggest that the W1 cells may provide a unique source of an established cell line that shares many properties ascribed to human cardiac myocytes.
4296292|Sixty-four malignant cell lines were examined for interleukin-1 (IL-1) activities in their conditioned medium using thymocyte and fibroblast proliferation assays. Sixteen cell lines showed high IL-1 activity. Comparison of these activities with human IL-1 showed similarity between some biological properties. However there was no correlation between cell origin and IL-1 activity. These results suggest the possibility that most malignant cells may produce an IL-1-like factor.
4296829|Proliferating cell nuclear antigen mRNA levels were determined in human diploid fibroblasts as they progressed through the cell cycle. PCNA message levels were low at GO, gradually increased following entrance into G1, peaked at G1/S, and declined during S phase. PCNA mRNA was determined to have a half life of 12 hours when cells were blocked at the G1/S interface. PCNA protein levels increased two- to three-fold as cells moved from G0 to S phase.
4296454|The understanding of pathways associated with differentiated function in human epithelial cells has been enhanced by the development of methods for the short-term culture of human epithelial cells. In general these methods involve the use of serum. The subculture and maintenance of epithelial cells in long-term culture has been more problematic. A serum-free medium developed for human bronchial epithelial cells was slightly modified and found to be useful for the subculture and long-term maintenance of not only bronchial epithelial cells, but also tracheal, nasal polyp, and sweat gland epithelial cells from either normal or cystic fibrosis individuals. The cells maintained epithelial-specific characteristics after multiple subcultures. Monolayers of epithelial cells showed junctional complex formation, the presence of keratin, and micro villi. Functional studies with Ussing chambers showed short circuit current (I
4296231|The presence of
4296885|Two endothelial cell lines were derived from grafts of the central nervous system using retrovirus mediated gene transfer to introduce the polyoma middle-T oncogene into fetal rat brain endothelial cells and transplantation of these cells into adult rat brain. In this report, we further characterize these cells and the effect of dexamethasone on the expression of specific enzymatic markers. These cells take up acetylated low density lipoprotein, leucine, and glucose, and express Factor VIII-related antigen, angiotensin converting enzyme, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase, and as yet undescribed aminopeptidase A and B-like enzymes. When grown on semi-permeable membranes, these transformed cells do not spontaneously retain small hydrophilic molecules. In culture, one of the lines (EC 193) forms a confluent monolayer of spindle-shaped cells homogenously expressing gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase at a level comparable to primary cells. The other cell line (EC 219) grows as clusters of elongated cells, and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity is expressed mainly in cells forming the clusters. This clustered pattern changes to a confluent one after culture on type-I collagen. Dexamethasone increases angiotensin-converting enzyme activity, and decreases the expression of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and aminopeptidase A, whereas the aminopeptidase B activity is little modified. Inhibition of aminopeptidase A activity by amastatin, potentiates angiotensin II effects on DNA synthesis. These results indicate that retrovirally transformed brain endothelial cells are a useful model for studying the blood-brain barrier in vitro and that dexamethasone, an agent with the potential to reduce brain edema, directly affects some blood-brain barrier properties in these endothelial cell lines.
4296883| Heterotypic cell-cell interactions appear to be involved in the control of development and function in a wide variety of tissues. In the vasculature, endothelial cells and mural cells (smooth muscle cells or pericytes) make frequent contacts, suggesting a role for intercellular interactions in the regulation of vascular growth and function. We have previously grown endothelial cells and mural cells together in mixed cultures and found that heterocellular contact led to endothelial growth inhibition. However, this mixed culture system does not lend itself to the examination of the effects of contact on the phenotype of the individual cell types. We have therefore developed a co-culture system in which cells can be co-cultured across a porous membrane, permitting intercellular contact while maintaining pure cell populations. Co-culture of endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells across membranes with pore sizes of 0.02, 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8 m maintained the two cell types as homogeneous populations, whereas smooth muscle cells migrated across the membrane through pores of 2.0 m. Vascular cell co-culture across membranes with 0.8-m pores resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation and the generation of conditioned media which inhibited endothelial cell growth. The arrangement of the cells in this co-culture system mimics the in vivo orientation of vascular cells in which mural cells are separated from the abluminal surface of the endothelium by a fenestrated internal elastic lamina or basement membrane. Because this co-culture system maintains separable populations of cells in contact or close proximity allowing for biochemical and molecular analyses of pure populations, it should prove useful for the study of cell-cell interactions in a variety of systems. 
4296542|Primary cultures of trophoblasts established from human term placentae showed high viability and reproducibility. Two-dimensional gel patterns obtained by metabolically labeling the trophoblasts with
4296571|The root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita Chitwood, is a pest of considerable agricultural and economic importance. As part of a study of this species, two diploid cell lines (2n = 32-36) were established in vitro on two different culture media. The two cultures were obtained from mature egg-laying females and were designated MI 8C and MI 5G. Descriptions are given of the techniques used for the preparation of the primary cultures, the media and the characteristics of the cell lines obtained. The doubling time of the population was estimated.
4296012|Normal human melanocytes, unlike pigment cells from metastatic melanomas, do not survive in culture in routine, serum-supplemented media. The search for natural growth factors for melanocytes has shown that mitogenic activity is ubiquitous in several tissues and in melanomas. Of several known growth factors tested, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was the only one mitogenic for melanocytes but only in the presence of cyclic-adenosine-monophosphate (cAMP) stimulators. The mitogenic activity toward melanocytes in tissues and melanoma cell extracts had high affinity for heparin and antibodies to bFGF synthetic peptides. These results suggest that one of the growth factors for melanocytes might be bFGF or a bFGF-like polypeptide and that autocrine production of bFGF-like molecules by melanoma cells may contribute to the malignant phenotype of melanocytes. Because acidic FGF (aFGF) did not stimulate growth, the receptors for bFGF on melanocytes might be significantly different from those for aFGF.
4296174|The response of the cellular components of the heart to cyclic mechanical stimulation is of particular importance because these cells are continually subjected to mechanical forces as a result of changes in blood volume and pressure. To directly investigate how mechanical tension affects these cellular components of the heart, an in vitro system that exposes the particular cell type (cardiac myocytes, endothelial cells, or fibroblasts) to a calibrated increase in cyclical linear stretch was developed. Cells were grown on silastic membranes coated with laminin and subjected to a 10% cyclical distention 10 times a minute for 72 h. Within 24 h of being exposed to the mechanical stretch, the cells became elongated and oriented perpendicular to the direction of the stretch. These results indicate that cyclical mechanical stimulation directly influences the cellular organization of the heart cells in vitro.
4296003|A helical mycoplasma, Spiroplasma mirum strain SMCA, produced malignant transformation in mouse NIH 3T3 cells and monkey kidney CV-1 cells. The transformed cells exhibited morphological changes consistent with the transformed phenotype, grew in soft agar and produced tumors in athymic and BALB/c mice. Transmission electron microscopy revealed structures morphologically similar to mycoplasmas present in the cytoplasm of transformed but not untransformed 3T3 cells. The time of inoculation of S. mirum SMCA to 3T3 cells and the passage level of 3T3 cells affected transformation.
4296826| The differentiation status in cultures of primary rat liver parenchymal cells was determined by measuring the activities of various xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes. Most enzyme activities dropped rather rapidly in monocultures of parenchymal cells. The protein content and the activities of cytosolic epoxide hydrolase, glutathione S-transferase, and -naphthol UDP-glucuronosyl transferase were, however, well stabilized in 7-day-old co-cultures of parenchymal cells with two different lines of rat liver nonparenchymal epithelial cells (NEC1 and NEC2). Phenol sulfotransferase and microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity were reduced in this coculture system after 7 days to about 30 and 20% of the initial activity. Generally, higher enzyme activities were measured in co-cultures with one specific epithelial cell line (NEC2) as compared to those with the other line (NEC1). C3H 10T 1/2 mouse embryo fibroblasts supported the parenchymal cells even better than the two epithelial lines, because the activity of microsomal epoxide hydrolase was also stabilized. Glutathione transferase activity was increased over time in this co-culture system. Our results show that the differentiation status of liver parenchymal cells was much better stabilized in co-cultures than in monocultures but that, depending on the type of cells used for co-culture, great quantitative differences existed. The entire pattern of xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme activities could not be stabilized at the kind of levels found in freshly isolated parenchymal cells. 
4296183|A sensitive method has been developed for visualizing eukaryotic cells in mitosis (M) phase. It employs Zenker's fixative, which makes the plasma membrane but not the nuclear envelope permeable to immunoglobulins. Zenker's-fixed cells are exposed to an antibody which recognizes a major constituent of chromatin. In this case the antibody is a monoclonal (MC 21) which recognizes histone H2b. Because cells in M phase do not have an intact nuclear envelope, the antibody has access to and interacts with their chromatin. The presence of a nuclear envelope in Zenker's-fixed interphase cells precludes access of the antibody to the nuclear chromatin. Consequently, this indirect immunofluorescence procedure selectively labels M-phase cells. At high enough magnification some details of the chromatin figures are revealed. MC 21 recognizes the chromatin of cells of many different species. With appropriate fixation it can be used effectively on cells in culture. With some procedural modifications it can also be used with more complex tissue systems. Detailed mitotic patterns for chick embryos up to Day 3 of development have been obtained by this method.
4295803| Milk protein gene expression was studied in cell subpopulations of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthraceneinduced rat mammary carcinoma cells enriched or depleted for casein production grown on attached collagen gels. Culture of these cells in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum, insulin (5 g/ml), hydrocortisone (10 g/ml), and prolactin (5 g/ml) maintained -, -, and -casein and whey acidic protein mRNAs at levels identical to cells isolated from perphehazine-treated rats. Whey acidic protein mRNA levels in the tumor cells relative to the 14-d lactating gland were greater than those of the casein mRNAs. Withdrawal of prolactin from the casein-producing cells resulted in the loss of all four milk protein mRNAs. Subsequent addition of prolactin to the withdrawn cells caused a rapid accumulation of these mRNAs to prewithdrawal levels. Milk protein gene expression in this tumor cell subpopulation is modulated by prolactin (in the presence of insulin and hydrocortisone) in a similar manner to that observed in the normal mammary gland when these tumor cells are cultured on attached collagen gels. 
4296424|Composition and interactions of cell types in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) liver digested with collagenase and cultured in serum-free media were investigated. Suspensions obtained after digesting trout liver with collagenase contained all the cell types present in the liver, including liver parenchymal cells (hepatocytes), biliary epithelial cells, sinusoidal endothelium, fat-storing cells of Ito, and macrophages. A major cell pellet, mainly hepatocytes but containing significant numbers of biliary epithelial cells, was obtained by centrifuging the cell suspension at 120 xg for 1 min. Cells present in this pellet quantitatively attached to culture plates coated with a trout skin extract and remain attached for 4 to 6 d with good retention of intracellular enzymes and DNA. When in culture, significant changes in and among the cells were observed. Initial preparations were rounded, single cells. Within several hours, however, cellular interactions leading to aggregation became evident and aggregates increased in size for 2 to 3 d. Scanning electron microscopy (EM) showed frequent shaftlike projections from margins of the aggregates. Transmission EM indicated that these projections represent biliary ductules forming in vitro. Adjacent hepatocytes also showed plasma membrane specializations forming junctional complexes and canaliculi characteristics of normal trout liver. After 5 to 6 d in culture, significant numbers of the cell aggregates dislodged from the plate. Analysis showed the dislodged cells were viable but vacuolated. The reestablishment in vitro of morphologic relationships resembling in situ tissue components suggest these culture preparations may have significant utility in cooperative metabolic studies of cell interactions in trout liver.
4296142|Human-human hybridomas derived from fusing lymph node lymphocytes with UC 729-6 were adapted to grow in commercially available serum-free medium and were compared with serum-supplemented [10% fetal bovine serum (FBS)] cultures. Over a 6-d period, no significant changes occurred in the growth of the cells in 10% FBS or serum-free medium. In cultures supplemented with 10% FBS more total proteins were secreted than in serum-free cultures. However, there was an enhanced secretion of three- to four-fold of both immunoreactive human IgG and IgM under serum-free conditions compared to serum-supplemented conditions. Serum-free conditions may provide the appropriate milieu for the increased level of Ig secretion from human hybridomas derived from UC 729-6 in that there are no inhibitors that may be present in serum.
4296110|The method of human gallbladder epithelial cell culture has been developed successfully with active mucus secretory function. Human gallbladder epithelial cells were dissociated by Dispase digestion from the specimens obtained by cholecystectomy for uncomplicated gallbladder stone cases. The dissociated cells formed a monolayer in Eagle's minimum essential medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum within 24 h after the inoculation. These cells were maintained for at least 2 wk without fibroblastic overgrowth. Cultured cells contained periodic acid Schiff-positive material in cellular cytoplasm for 3 d. On transmission electron microscopy these materials were identified as mucous secretory granules. Mucous secretory function was determined by
4296528| We surveyed several human cell lines for production of - and -human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) under a variety of conditions known to induce gene expression. - and -hCG subunits were monitored in culture media by specific radioimmunoassays and were shown to be quite sensitive to serum refeeding and growth state of all cell types studied. The permanent line JEG-3 secreted both - and -subunits whereas HeLa cells secreted only the -subunit. Production of both subunits was augmented in these permanent cell lines, for each growth state, by pretreating cells with 5-azacytidine; in contrast, spontaneous -hCG production by normal human fibroblasts (four of six strains) was only rarely increased after 5-azacytidine treatment, and more often was suppressed by 30 to 40%. Three of five strains from inherited chromosomal breakage syndromes produced immunoassayable -hCG spontaneously, two of which increased secretion upon treatment with either UV or mitomycin C. Surprisingly, one normal cell strain of fetal origin was induced to secrete -hCG, but not -hCG, after UV irradiation. JEG-3 and HeLa cells produced detectable cognate mRNA for - or -hCG subunits or both by Northern and S1 nuclease protection analyses, whereas such transcripts from untransformed human fibroblasts were consistently below detectable levels. Quantitation of -hCG mRNA by RNA:RNA annealing kinetics indicates that even the fibroblast strain producing the highest secreted -hCG levels contained cognate mRNAs at only ~0.1 copy per cell. We conclude that hCG expression in human fibroblasts is strongly repressed at the transcriptional level, although a variety of conditions (growth state, serum refeeding, cell senescence, or DNA damage) can affect the level of "leaky" expression, at least in some responding fraction of cells. 
4296024|To evaluate the role of animal age in chemically induced transformation, pancreatic cells were grown in culture 6 to 8 wk after injecting mice at either 6 or 22 mo. of age with a single dose of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (NMU). The cell type and the frequency with which lines were obtained from aged animals paralleled the frequency and pattern of tumor induction by NMU in vivo. Outgrowth of pancreatic explants from young animals required the presence of the tumor promoter 12-o-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate to establish continuously growing cell lines. Whereas NMU alone produced lines from aged mice, the promoter did not increase the frequency with which continuous lines were recovered from the aged animals. Of eight cloned cell lines (four young and four old), all had characteristics of transformed mouse pancreatic acinar cells when tested for lectin binding, lactate dehydrogenase isozyme pattern, chromosome number, and anchorage-independent growth. Cell lines derived from aged animals were slower growing and had higher chromosome numbers than lines derived from their younger counterparts.
4295883|Mouse lymphoma L1210 cells maintained in vitro at a high cell density for a certain time period adapted themselves to the in vitro environment and were able to grow indefinitely. From these adapted cells, more than 30 clones were isolated. They all had much higher activity to take up cystine than the original L1210 cells, supporting a previous view that the deficiency of the cystine uptake limits the survival and growth of L1210 cells in vitro. The cystine uptake of one cloned cell line was characterized. The enhanced uptake of cystine in these cells was mainly mediated by a
4296241| Studies were performed with cellulosic filters and standard culture plates to compare methods of cell culture and differentiation of the cell line PC12, a clone originating from a rat pheochromocytoma. PC12 cells respond to nerve growth factor (NGF) by flattening of the cell body and subsequent extension of neurite-like processes. When PC12 cells are cultured in dishes without NGF, they have a diameter of approximately 3 to 7 m and exhibit short processes of no longer than 3 to 5 m. If PC12 cells are grown on a cellulosic filter they have the same average soma diameter and similar short processes extending laterally, but in addition have branching processes which extend as far as 10 to 15 m into the filter substrate. When dish-cultured and filter-cultured cells are incubated with 50 ng/ml NGF they both exhibit differentiation-specific ultrastructural changes by 3 d of treatment. In the case of dish-cultured cells, large cytoplasmic processes exhibit an increase in the number of chromaffin cell-like secretory granules by 3 d of treatment. This characteristic is also demonstrated by filter-cultured cells, but the processes containing these granules are found concentrated within the cellulosic meshwork. Thus the timing of the NGF-elicited differentiation program is similar to both filter-cultured and dish-cultured cells, but the ultrastructural consequences are different. The filter-cultured PC12 cells exhibit a polarity not demonstrated by dish-cultured cells. Growing PC12 cells on cellulosic filters is a technique useful for "anchoring" neurons without the complication of the addition of extracellular matrix components. Filter-culture may represent a more in vivo-like method for studying neuronal growth and differentiation. 
4296319|Peripheral blood cultures were set up from male rats and humans in TC199, RPMI 1640, and minimal essential medium in the presence of 5-bromo,2-deoxyuridine and harvested at 48, 72, and 96 h. Mitotic indices were compared in the different media at all three harvest times, but cytokinetic patterns and baseline sister chromatid exchange (SCE) frequencies were evaluated exclusively in the 72- and 96-h cultures. In general, lymphocyte division kinetics, as determined by average lymphocyte division (ALD) numbers, were comparable between rat and human lymphocytes cultured in any of the three media and harvested at either of the culture times. The numbers of S CE s were distributed between and within the two systems independent of ALD numbers or the harvest time. Overall, no influence of media was detected on the distribution of SCEs. Despite a number of similarities in growth characteristics between rat and human lymphocytes, the rat lymphocyte test system has distinct advantages over that of the human because of the easy access to rat blood samples and the absence of the many restrictions applicable to humans.
4296416|Complimentary ribonucleic acid (cRNA) probes were used to detect expression of the genes for heparin binding (fibroblast) growth factor type one (HBGF-1) and two (HBGF-2) in cultured endothelial and smooth muscle cells from normal human blood vessels. Hybridization in situ revealed that transcripts for both HBGF-1 and HBGF-2 are expressed in endothelial cells from both umbilical vein and aorta. Relative intensity of radioactive grains suggest that HBGF-1 gene expression may exceed HBGF-2 expression in aortic smooth muscle cells. Collective expression of both HBGF-1 and HBGF-2 in smooth muscle cells may exceed that in endothelial cells.
4296343|Highly regenerative alfalfa genotypes selected in three different laboratories from 'Regen-S'/'Saranac' (3 genotypes) and 'Rangelander' (1 genotype) were cultured using tissue culture and regeneration protocols from two of the laboratories. Regeneration of progeny from crosses among the genotypes indicated that genotypes from Regen-S/Saranac have the same genetic control of regeneration, but the Regen-S/Saranac system may be at least partially different from the one in Rangelander. Significant interactions occurred between genotypes and culture protocols for both embryoid formation and conversion into plantlets. Moreover, interactions involving genotypes from Regen-S/Saranac were as different from each other as they were from the Rangelander genotype. The hypothesis that genotypes from the Saranac genetic background would regenerate equally well on both protocols was rejected. Factors in addition to genes controlling regeneration clearly influence genotype X culture-protocol interactions. The importance of evaluating final plantlet formation along with embryoid formation is discussed. A hybrid of two Regen-S derivatives in which 90% of the F
20171495|Due to limited growth potential of primary cultures and the absence of continuous lines of healthy enteric smooth muscle, we have studied the culture behavior of neoplastic gastrointestinal smooth muscle cells. Forty-six human enteric smooth muscle neoplasms (leiomyomas and leiomyosarcomas) were studied while fresh and/or after culture in vitro and growth in vivo in athymic nude mice, with assessments made of morphology, growth characteristics, and biochemical markers of differentiation. The state of differentiation of the tumors varied, with well-differentiated tumors tending to express binding sites for the gastrointestinal hormone cholecystokinin, whereas less well-differentiated tumors did not. Poorly differentiated tumors were the easiest to establish in culture in vitro and to grow in vivo in nude mice. When the cells placed directly into culture proliferated to confluent density, they underwent morphologic differentiation from a spread, fibroblastlike shape to a slender spindle morphology, with these cells possessing fewer biosynthetic organelles and arranging themselves in characteristic "hill and valley" arrays. However, the highly differentiated characteristics of expression of desmin or cholecystokinin-binding sites were not observed in cultured cells. In contrast, cells that had been passaged in nude mice before culture displayed a proliferative phenotype and failed to undergo morphologic differentiation on reaching confluent density. Four human enteric smooth muscle cell lines (documented by chromosomal analysis) originating in stomach, jejunum, ileum, and rectum were established using this strategy.
4295749|A new type of collagen surface for use with cultures of peripheral nervous system cells is described. Collagen is derivatized to plastic culture dishes by a cross-linking reagent, l-cyclohexyl-3-(2-morpholinoethyl)-carbodiimide-metho-p-toluenesulfonate (carbodiimide), to form a uniform and durable surface for cell attachment and growth that allows dry storage, long-term culture, and improved microscopy. Surfaces of collagen derivatized to plastic were compared to surfaces of adsorbed or ammonia-polymerized collagen in terms of collagen binding and detachment, growth by dorsal root ganglion cells, and electron microscopy appearances. Derivatized collagen surfaces retained more collagen and showed much less evidence of degradation and cellular damage over periods of many weeks than did conventional adsorbed surfaces. Long-term survival of cells on derivatized collagen was far superior to that on the other surfaces, with almost 90% of cultures still viable after 10 wk. Transmission electron microscopy showed an organized layer of single fibrils that supported cell growth well, and scanning electron microscopy demonstrated an increased uniformity of derivatized collagen surfaces compared to ammoniated collagen surfaces. Applications for this improved substrate surface are discussed.
20171365|Cell culture is a valuable method of evaluating the biocompatibility of new dental materials. The purpose of this study was to compare the in vitro biocompatibility of an experimental fluoride composite resin with fluoride and non-fluoride-releasing materials currently available. The dental materials tested were: MQ Silicate (silicate cement), KETAC-CEM and FUJI (type II glass ionomer cements), VISIO DISPERS (a light-cured, nonfluoridated, microfilled composite resin), and FR-17 (an experimental fluoride-releasing composite resin). The Smulow-Glickman (S-G) human gingival epithelial cell line, which exhibits semidifferentiated characteristics, was used in the study as a test system. Biocompatibility was quantified by counting the viable cells per unit area remaining after 24 and 48 h at two radial distances from cured specimens immersed in the cell culture medium. The test materials were observed to be most toxic to cells nearest the materials. A Time-Distance Cytotoxicity Index (TDCI) was calculated to related the percentage of dead cells to viable cells at each diffusion distance for each exposure time compared to a nontoxic control. The relative toxicity ranking of the materials tested based on the TDCI was VISIO DISPERS (91%), FUJI (82%), FR-17 (30%), MQ Silicate (23%), and KETAC-CEM (10%), which exhibited the least toxicity. The cytotoxicity of the experimental resin FR-17 was within the range of cytotoxicity of currently accepted restorative materials.
20171476|A mouse mammary tumor cell line, designated JC, has been established from a spontaneously developed primary adenocarcinoma of an aged virgin female BALB/c mouse. Isoenzyme analyses including glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, and peptidase proved that this cell line is of murine origin and devoid of contamination from other species. Karyotyping revealed that the number of chromosome ranged from 26 to 100, with a modal number of 40. Electron microscopic examination detected the presence of tonofilament and desmosomes confirming its epithelial nature. In addition, no type B or C virus particle was detected, although intracysternal A particle was observed occasionally. Tumorigenicity in immunocompetent syngeneic hosts was easily established by s.c., i.p., and i.v. injection of viable JC tumor cells. A very weak immunogenicity of the JC tumor was demonstrated through its immunization-challenging on syngeneic immunocompetent hosts. Although no rejection of JC tumor was noted, a significant prolongation for the incubation period before an obvious and palpable tumor growth was detected between the experimental and the control animals. Development of a concomitant immunity was also detected. The JC tumor represents a valuable murine mammary tumor model which is different from other available models because of its unique origin, absence of virus particles, very weak immunogenicity, and high tumorigenicity in syngeneic hosts. The cell line has been maintained for more than 5 yr and has been used for experimental immunotherapy in our laboratory.
20171587|Neonatal treatment with estrogens is associated with development of uterine adenocarcinomas in CD-1 mice. Treatment with the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) on Days 1 to 5 after birth results in 90% incidence of these hormone-dependent lesions in 18-mo.-old mice. Three cell lines were established from these DES-associated tumors. Each of these cell lines exhibited morphologic and ultrastructural characteristics of transformed epithelial cells, including an increased nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, enlarged and irregular nuclei with multiple nucleoli and areas of chromatin condensation, positive staining for cytokeratin, desmosomes, and microvilli. After subcutaneous injection into nude mice, all three cell lines formed solid tumors within 4 wk. Although the primary uterine tumors and tumor transplants in nude mice had been shown to be estrogen-dependent and estrogen-receptor positive, neither the monolayer growth nor the tumorigenicity of any of the three cell lines in this study was enhanced by or dependent on estrogen. Estrogen receptor levels were low in early and intermediate passage cells. Allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization analysis of PCR-amplified cell line DNA revealed no point mutations in the 12th, 13th, or 61st codons of the K-ras or H-ras protooncogenes. Southern analysis revealed no changes in genomic organization of the putative tumor suppressor gene DCC, but demonstrated a three- to four-fold amplification of the c-myc gene in one cell line. Expression of c-myc RNA was concomitantly increased in the same cell line. These three transformed cell lines represent the end point in the process of hormone-associated tumorigenesis and as such should prove useful in investigating the molecular changes and the mechanisms involved in hormonal carcinogenesis.
4296217|Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was measured in adult rat hepatocytes during either pure culture or coculture with another rat liver cell type in various media. Addition of nicotinamide, selenium, or dimethylsulfoxide, deprivation of cyst(e)ine and the use of two complex media were tested. Whatever the conditions used, after a constant decrease during the first 24 h, GST remained active over the whole culture period (1-2 wk). However, various patterns were observed: GST activity either remained relatively stable to approximately 50% of the initial value or showed a moderate or strong increase. The highest values were found in pure hepatocyte cultures maintained in the presence of nicotinamide or dimethylsulfoxide. Similar changes were observed using l-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene or l,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene as substrates for GST. Addition of 10
4296884|Presumptive astrocytes isolated from 10-day white Leghorn chick embryos, Factor VIII-positive human brain capillary endothelial cells, meningeal fibroblasts from 10-day chick embryos, Swiss mouse 3T3 cells, and human astrocytoma cell lines, SKMG-1 and U373, were rendered quiescent when placed in culture medium that contained 0 or 0.2% serum for 48 h; their proliferation was markedly reduced and they incorporated [
4296156|A murine monoclonal antibody, VM-1, which binds to basal cells of normal human epidermis, reduces the ability of human squamous cell carcinoma cells (SCL-1) derived from the skin to attach and spread on collagen by about 50% and causes cell rounding. Similar effects have been previously shown using normal human keratinocytes. The attachment of cell lines derived from human lung squamous cell carcinomas (SW1271 and SW900), melanoma A375, glioblastoma 126, and fibrosarcoma HT1080 is also inhibited by this antibody. VM-1 antibody does not bind to normal human fibroblasts, benign nevus cells, or the human B-cell-derived line 8866. VM-1 antibody inhibits the growth of SCL-1 cells in vitro as measured by cell numbers and
4296107| Normal mouse vaginal epithelial cells isolated from ovariectomized ca. 35-d-old BALB/cCrgl mice were grown in primary culture using collagen gel matrix and a serum-free medium composed of a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Ham's F12 (D:H) medium supplemented with insulin (IN), epidermal growth factor (EGF), cholera toxin, transferrin, and bovine serum albumin V (BSA). Three-dimensional cellular outgrowths occurred inside the collagen gel matrix. The contribution of each factor to cell growth was examined by individual addition to the basic D:H medium and by individual deletion from the complete serum-free medium. When added individually, only IN promoted growth. Deletion of IN from the complete serum-free medium markedly diminished growth; deletion of EGF or BSA slightly diminished growth. When horse, fetal bovine, or chicken serum was added to the basal D:H medium, only with increasing doses of horse serum was there enhanced cell growth. The effect of 17-estradiol and diethylstilbestrol on the growth of cells was also tested, using a suboptimal medium of D:H supplemented with BSA and IN, or a minimal medium supplemented with IN alone. During the 8-d time period, addition of estrogen did not enhance cell growth in either medium. To date, we have been unable to demonstrate a mitogenic effect of estrogen; rather a dose-dependent inhibition of proliferation is seen. 
4296413|Ornithine  ketoglutarate (OKG) is largely used in clinical nutrition for its anabolic effects. However, the mechanism of its action remains questionable. We investigated the effect of OKG on the rate of DNA synthesis in human fibroblasts. The in vitro experimental procedure required to demonstrate in cell culture the anabolic effects of OKG observed in vivo was found to be glutamine-free and serum-poor medium with sparse cells. In these conditions, OKG induced a significant increase in [
4296171|Modulation of
4296866|The single and combined actions of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and osteogenin were evaluated with regard to induction of colony formation and reexpression of the differentiated phenotype by dedifferentiated rabbit articular chondrocytes in soft agarose under serum-free conditions. TGF-beta alone did not promote colony formation and induced accumulation of proteoglycans and type II collagen at significantly lower levels than those induced by osteogenin. Although synergism between these two growth factors occurred with respect to the induction of colony formation, their joint action on reexpression of the differentiated phenotype was additive. Complex interactions between the two growth factors may explain the latter phenomenon.
4296180|Animal cell growth factors stimulate expression of the proto-oncogenes c-myc and c-fos. The products of these genes seem to act as intracellular mediators of the mitogenic response to growth factors. Phosphatidyl inositol breakdown products function as cytoplasmic second messengers to induce transcription of c-myc and c-fos although they may not play an exclusive role in this regard. Post-transcriptional events may contribute to the modulation of c-myc gene expression. Following induction, the c-myc and c-fos mRNAs are selectively degraded within the cell.
4296145| We studied the effects of soluble and immobilized forms of plasma fibronectin on bovine aortic endothelial cell (AEC) proliferation and attachment. Soluble fibronectin stimulated AEC growth at 10 g/ml, but at higher concentrations of soluble fibronectin AEC growth was progressively inhibited. The growth rates of arterial smooth muscle cells (ASMC) and dermal fibroblasts (DF) were not altered by soluble fibronectin concentrations of 10 to 100  g/ml. Plasma fibronectin, immobilized by attachment to culture dish surfaces, had no significant effects on the proliferation of any of the cell types examined. The attachment rates of AEC were decreased in the presence of 50 g/ml soluble fibronectin. Immobilized fibronectin increased the rate of AEC attachment, but had no significant effects on ASMC or DF attachment; however, 12 h after plating there was nearly 100% attachment in all groups, whether or not fibronectin was present in the system. That soluble and immobilized fibronectins elicit disparate cellular responses is consistent with published reports of different cell surface receptors for different forms of the protein; in this manner, cells enmeshed in an interstitial matrix containing immobilized fibronectin could still respond to soluble fibronectin in the extracellular milieu. 
4295898|A stationary tissue culture system for reaggregation cultures of rat brain cells is described. Aggregates were formed by placing cells at high concentrations in liquid overlay cultures on a nonadherent nutrient agar surface. No physical stress in the form of rotation or shaking was applied to the aggregating cell population. Transmission electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry showed that the cells developed from homogeneously dispersed, immature cells in Day 4 aggregates, to mature astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons in Day 20 aggregates. Twenty days and older aggregates had a tightly packed neuropil which was most prominent in a cell-sparse outer layer of the aggregates. When the aggregates were allowed to adhere to a substrate, both glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive and negative cells were observed migrating out from the aggregates. Cells giving a positive reaction for neuron specific enolase (NSE) were also present. This reaggregation procedure, with transfer of selected brain cell aggregates into agar-coated multiwells is an alternative three-dimensional culture system which can be potentially useful in the study of morphogenesis and cell interactions in the nervous system.
20171575|Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) is a cross-pollinated, autotetraploid crop, sold commercially as synthetic populations of plants. The production of hybrids offers the potential advantages of minimizing inbreeding depression, maximizing genetic heterozygosity, and providing a uniform, consistent phenotype, which potentially will lead to improvements in yield, persistence, disease tolerance, and quality. The use of artificial seed technology in alfalfa will allow the mass propagation of parental, self-sterile lines for the commercial production of hybrids. The ability to dry somatic embryos as artificial seeds provides the added advantages of long term germplasm storage, and international transport of pathogen free clones. The cell culture system described maximizes the production of synchronized somatic embryos, and minimizes somaclonal variation. These somatic embryos can be induced to acquire desiccation tolerance by treatment with ABA or any one of several environmental stresses, including water and nutrient stresses, if applied to the embryos at the cotyledonary stage of development. The embryos have been subsequently air dried slowly (over 7 days) or rapidly (over 1 day) to moisture contents less than 15% water and remain fully viable. Dry somatic embryos have been stored with no loss of viability for 8 months at room temperature and humidity. Dry somatic embryos are germinated on moist germination paper and follow a similar developmental pattern to seedlings from true seed, but are less vigorous. The development of populations of alfalfa which carry genes for regeneration as well as having suitable agronomic characteristics is possible using conventional plant breeding methods.
4296322|Single cells were obtained from hypocotyl-derived callus of Lavandula latifolia Medicus. Cells were plated in Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with indoleacetic acid (IAA), benzyladenine (BA), and several IAA-BA combinations. Cell division required the simultaneous presence of IAA and BA in the culture medium, but callus formation was only achieved with 0.1 or 1 mg/liter IAA and 2 mg/liter BA. To induce organogenesis, calli were transferred to various regeneration media. Shoot-bud differentiation efficiency depended on the composition of both the callus induction and the shoot regeneration media, best results being obtained when calli grown in 1 mg/liter IAA and 2 mg/liter BA were subcultured to media containing 2 mg/liter BA and 15% coconut milk. Under these conditions, up to 75% of calli formed shoots that subsequently were rooted and established in soil.
4296717|Primary cultures of mouse neural precursor cells were established by enzymatic dissociation of embryonic Day 10 fetal heads followed by negative selection of non-neural contaminating cells. The latter were allowed to attach and spread on a plastic substrate under conditions that permitted neural precursor cells to remain suspended in the culture medium. The resulting neuroepithelial cell enriched suspension then was plated on dishes coated with poly-D-lysine. Growth of fibroblastic cells was inhibited in a selective medium. Cell proliferation was measured by immunoperoxidase staining of nuclei after bromodeoxyuridine labeling. The proportion of labeled cells declined from 50% on Day 1 until Day 5 when it approached zero, and after 7 days in culture a fourfold increase in cell number was achieved in medium containing 1% fetal bovine serum, transferrin, insulin, cholera toxin, and sodium selenite. Differentiation of neural precursor cells was studied by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy for the appearance of neuron- and astrocyte-specific cytoskeletal proteins at successive intervals in culture. Cells bearing neuritic processes and expressing neurofilaments as well as microtubule-associated protein 2 were present in low numbers on Day 1, increasing through Day 14. Stellate cells with morphologic features of astrocytes and immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein were not detected until Day 5 and did not become abundant until Day 11. No differences in morphology or immunocytochemical staining characteristics were found between neural precursor cells processed by enzymatic dissociation of whole fetal heads and those recovered by manual dissection of fetal neuroepithelia. The large number of neural precursor cells obtained by this rapid, simple method makes possible the production of mass cultures for molecular analysis of the regulatory factors that control proliferation and differentiation during early development of the mouse central nervous system.
4296570|The protease activity in serum-free conditioned medium of chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells was measured using peptidyl (or aminoacyl)-4-methylcoumaryl-7-amides (MCAs) as the substrates. Aminopeptidase increased in level as amounts of nonviable cells increased during cultivation in serum-free medium, indicating that the activity seems to be originated from intracellular proteases. The activity toward Boc-Leu-Arg-Arg-MCA, which was strongly inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzonate and N-ethylmaleimide, was the strongest among those toward peptidyl-MCAs in the conditioned medium within 48 h-cultivation in serum-free medium. In contrast to the case of aminopeptidase activity, the endopeptidase activity decreased in level after 48 h-cultivation although amounts of nonviable cells increases. Thus, CHO cells continuously secrete the cysteine proteases.
20171399|We screened for immunoglobulin (Ig) production stimulating factor (IPSF) which enhanced Ig production of human-to-human hybridomas in serum-free culture, and found that culture supernatant and lysate of human lymphoblastoid Namalwa cells stimulated proliferation and Ig production of human-to-human hybridoma HB4C5 cells. The IPSF in Namalwa lysate was partially purified with DEAE-Toyopearl 650M, hydroxylapatite and Superose 6HR 10/30 column chromatographies. The partially purified IPSF was a macromolecule of about 500 000 dalton containing 72 000 dalton protein as a major component. The activity was stable at pH 6 to 12, but inactivated partially by heating over 40 C (60% decrease) and completely by trypsin digestion. These results suggest that the IPSF activity is due to its protein and heat-stable components. The Namalwa IPSF stimulated proliferation of human-to-human hybridomas but not that of mouse-to-mouse hybridomas. The IPSF also stimulated Ig production of human-to-human hybridomas derived from NAT-30 cells, but not that of other human-to-human or mouse-to-mouse hybridomas. NAT-30 is a human fusion partner derived from Namalwa cells. These results suggest that the Namalwa IPSF is an autocrine factor that stimulates proliferation and Ig production of hybridomas derived from NAT-30 cells.
4295793|A continuous m urine cell line (GRX) was obtained from fibrotic granulomas induced in C3H/HeN mice liver by experimental infection with Schistosoma mansoni. This anchorage-dependent line produces composite connective tissue/extracellular matrix, displays morphological characteristics of myofibroblasts, and can, under appropriate conditions, accumulate fat droplets. GRX cells produce viral particles of retrovirus type. We consider GRX cell line to be representative of liver connective tissue cells, responsible for fibroplasia in liver fibrotic and granulomatous reactions.
4296296|Primary cultured epithelial cells derived from the rat dorsolateral prostate proliferated in serum-free nutrient medium WAJC 404 supplemented with mitogens: insulin (650 nM), cholera toxin (120 pM), epidermal growth factor (EGF) (2.5 nM), dexamethasone (300 nM), and bovine pituitary extract (25 g/ml). The culture consisted of two types of epithelial cell colonies: one originated from single cells or small cell aggregates and the other was epithelial cell outgrowth from small tissue fragments attached to a substratum. There were differences in requirements for the mitogens between the two types of colonies. Requirements for cholera toxin, bovine pituitary extract, and dexamethasone were higher in the former type of colonies, and those for EGF were higher in the latter type of colonies. Proliferation of the epithelial cells in either type of colony was suppressed more than 50% by 1 nM dihydrotestosterone. This suppressive effect was not mediated by stromal component in the tissue fragments, and was counteracted by cyproterone acetate, indicating specific and direct action of the androgen on prostate epithelial cells. The results suggest that there is discrete participation of polypeptide growth factors and androgen in proliferation and differentiation, respectively, of prostate epithelial cells in vivo.
4296462| A lymphoma cell line (MCC) was derived from an abdominal mass from a 13-yr-old castrated male cat. The cells resemble natural killer precursor cells, have membrane-bound granules, and are positive for chloroacetate esterase, -naphthyl butyrate esterase, and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase activities. The MCC cells are negative for rearranged feline T-cell receptor genes, negative for feline T-cytotoxic antigen, Ia, and surface , , and lambda chains and do not form E-rosettes. The MCC cell line is negative for the feline leukemia virus (FeLV); e.g., negative for exogenous FeLV (exU3) sequences, negative for cytoplasmic and surface FeLV major core protein of 27 000 daltons (p27) by indirect immunofluorescence assay, negative for helper FeLV by clone 81 assay, and negative for release of soluble FeLV p27 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Electron microscopy reveals budding type C retrovirus particles and MCC cells react with anti-RD-114 (anti-endogenous feline retrovirus) reference serum. After in vitro infection, MCC replicate FeLV readily, but replication is noncytopathic. 
20171568|We present a practical method for the rescue of previously stable hybridoma clones which increases the proportion of desired cells in the population before cloning by limiting dilution. When the antibody activity of a culture supernatant was lower than that previously obtained, a precloning distribution at a density of 10 cells per microtiter well greatly improved the chances of obtaining a single active clone by subsequent limiting dilution. The Poisson distribution model was used to evaluate the method. Probabilities calculated clearly demonstrate the advantage of this precloning distribution step when attempting to isolate a hybridoma cell line that is relatively rare in a population.
4296122|Tyrosinase activity increased in Cloudman S-91 mouse melanoma cell homogenates incubated at 37 C for a minimum of 8 h. Enzyme activity continued to increase for 48 h at which time the maximal level of activation was observed. Activation did not occur at 4 C and did not occur in the cytosol fraction of the cell, suggesting that the response was localized to melanosomes. The activated enzyme was resistant to solubilization with the nonionic detergent, Triton X-100, and preparation of homogenates in this detergent did not inhibit the temperature-dependent activation of the melanosomal fraction of the cell. The activation process increased the
4296614| To further examine the effects of purified Haemophilus influenzae type b lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on blood-brain barrier permeability, we have developed an in vitro model of the BBB. Microvascular endothelial cells were isolated from rat cerebral cortices by enzymatic digestion, dextran centrifugation, and separation on percoll gradients. The cells were determined to be endothelial in origin by positive fluorescent staining for Factor VIII-related antigen and the ability to take up acetylated low density lipoproteins, and their cerebral origin by the formation of junctional complexes in vitro. Cells were seeded onto semipermeable polycarbonate filters and permeability assessed by measuring traversal of radioactive albumin across the monolayer. Treatment of the cells with LPS at concentrations of 1.0 g/ml and 0.1 g/ml for 4 h led to statistically significant increases in albumin permeability of 4.6% (P = 0.001) and 5.6% (P < 0.001), respectively, without evidence of cell death as assessed by release of lactate dehydrogenase into the media. These results indicate that LPS significantly increases albumin permeability across a monolayer of cerebral microvascular endothelial cells in the absence of host inflammatory cells. Future studies on the effects of LPS on intracellular regulation will determine the mechanisms responsible for these alterations. 
4296527|A novel protein-free synthetic medium has been developed for the culture of human squamous cell carcinoma cells. This medium, designated PF86-1, supports the serial subcultivation of six out of nine human squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in a protein-free, chemically defined condition without the adapting culture from serum-containing conditions. These cell lines growing in PF86-1 exhibited nearly equal potency to grow in massive culture without noticeable changes in morphology but presented a significantly decreased level of colony forming efficiency when compared with the cells cultured in serum-containing media, suggesting the implication of some autocrine mechanism. Interestingly, this medium supported the growth of normal human squamous cells of oral mucosa and skin for more than 2 mo. in the primary explant culture in spite of high levels of calcium ion concentration, where the overgrowth of fibroblasts as contaminant was not observed. These results suggest that PF86-1 supports the growth of cells derived from epidermal tissues selectively and provides the same defined condition for growth of malignant and nonmalignant human squamous cells. It seems, therefore, that PF86-1 allows investigations on the products of squamous cell carcinoma cells or on the differences of growth mechanisms between normal and neoplastic human squamous cells.
20171428| Human adrenal carcinoma cells (SW-13) produce and secrete autocrine growth factors. We now report that these cells secrete a factor that is biologically related to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Serum-free medium conditioned by SW-13 cells stimulated incorporation of tritiated thymidine into DNA by quiescent Balb/c 3T3 cells in the presence of platelet-poor plasma. The conditioned media also competed with I-labeled PDGF for binding to PDGF receptors on human fibroblasts. Hybridization studies identified mRNA transcripts for PDGF-2/sis chains in logarithmically growing SW-13 cells. These data suggest secretion of PDGF-like mitogens by SW-13 cells. 
4296038|Lung organ culture has been a widely used system for studying differentiation and maturation of alveolar epithelium through various culture conditions. The purpose of this work was to carefully characterize in vitro lung biochemical differentiation through isolation of surfactant fraction from tissue and to search for optimal culture conditions. Fetal rat lung was explanted on the 18th gestational day for studying glycogen storage, and on the 20th gestational day for studying surfactant accretion, and cultivated for 48 h. Morphologic differentiation was studied by electron microscopy on tissue explanted on the 17th or 18th gestational days and cultivated for various times. Glycogen storage was greater on fluid medium, although less than occurring in vivo. Cellular integrity and surfactant accumulation were maximal on a semisolid medium containing 0.5% agar. Use of
4296618|The skin comprises three layers: epidermis, dermis, and hypodermis. We report here on a skin, reconstructed in vitro, that is composed of all three layers. The topmost layer, epidermis, was exposed to air by a new method. The exposure induced an extensive proliferation, and differentiation, i.e. keratinization was eventually observed in the cultured epidermal cells. Skin thus cultured will be a useful graft of transplantation and provide an ideal model system in which to study diseases of the skin.
4295999|Morphological studies of the WISH cell line reveal an epithelioid cell type with some characteristics of both the original human amnion epithelium and a transformed state. WISH cells have a cytoplasm filled with microtubules; however, actin filament bundles are few, with actin localized at areas of cell contact and arranged diffusely through the cytoplasm, as viewed by indirect immunofluorescence. Fingerlike projections or short filopodia are observed connecting cells that grow in a closely apposed monolayer. Other surface features, as viewed by scanning electron microscopy, include microvilli and blebs. Transmission electron microscopy shows that WISH cultures consist of light or dark cells with organelles that include lipid droplets, abundant free ribosomes, tubular mitochondria, lysosomes, annulate lamellae, rough endoplasmic reticulum, 6-nm microfilaments, 10-nm intermediate filaments, and microtubules. Pleomorphic nuclei with multiple nucleoli and fibrillar nuclear bodies are common. Desmosomes and subsurface confronting cisternae connect cells. To our knowledge, these structural studies are the first to describe WISH and lead to subsequent investigation of the cell surface phenomenon of blebbing and surface charge in WISH and another human cell line.
4295785|A culture system for honeybee fat body and ovary was developed that supported optimal levels of protein synthesis by the explanted tissues. Abdominal body wall preparations of honeybee workers and queens, with adhering fat body, and ovaries of egg-laying queens were incubated in a culture medium designed to match honeybee hemolymph composition as closely as possible. Incorporation of
4296201|The immune suppressed lizard, Anolis carolinensis, can be used to test for in vivo tumor production by cell lines derived from a variety of ectothermic vertebrates. Cell lines tested for tumor production were also assessed for loss of attachment-dependent proliferation and contact inhibition of cell overlap. The results demonstrate that the criteria standardly used to assess transformation and neoplastic change in cultured mammalian cells apply equally well to cultured cells from ectotherms.
20171465| Data from our in vitro studies indicate a new source of prolactin (PRL)-like activity, normal human connective tissue. Fascial cells from primary culture and subsequent passages produced an extracellular antigen which specifically reacted in a radioimmunoassay RIA developed to detect human pituitary PRL. An initial peak or first surge of fascial PRL-like activity occurred between 4 and 15 d in primary culture. Ibuprofen, cytotoxic levels of 0.01% azide, or 7.5 mM EDTA and medium lacking serum [fetal bovine serum (FBS)] significantly (P  0.05) reduced PRL-like activity levels, whereas female steroids, 257 to 342 milliosmolarity, 1 to 3.6 mg/ml glucose, 2 to 20% FBS, and dialyzed FBS (MWCO 1 kDa) were without effect. Optimum production of PRL-like activity occurred at pH 7.3. A second surge began after 18 d and continued until passage indicating that perhaps two populations of cells produced PRL-like activity in primary culture. Production of PRL-like activity by cells from early passages (1 and 2) became detectable at confluence, was serum-dependent, showed two patterns (tonic, rising to plateau), and averaged 3.2 fgcell3 d feed interval. Cells from late passages showed morphologic damage from repetitive trypsinization, agring, and reduced production of PRL-like activity with aberrant production pattern. Production of PRL-like activity was maintained in an unusual long-term culture. These in vitro studies demonstrate the most recently recognized and ubiquitous source of human extrapituitary PRL or PRL-like activity, normal connective tissue (fascia). 
20171537|Gyrate atrophy (GA), a degenerative disease of the human chorioretina, is associated with a deficiency of ornithine aminotransferase (OAT) activity, hyperornithinemia, and ornithinuria. We have characterized a cDNA clone for OAT (HLOAT) that was isolated from a cDNA library constructed from mRNA prepared from Hep G2 cells, a human hepatoma cell line. We have used HLOAT and a nearly full length OAT cDNA clone isolated from a rat liver library (RLOAT) to examine in cultured fibroblasts from individuals with GA and control individuals, the expression of OAT mRNA and the gross structure of the OAT gene. Northern blot analyses of total cellular RNA indicated that 3 of 3 control cell lines and 5 of 6 GA cell lines are capable of expressing an OAT related mRNA of approximately 2100 bases, the size of OAT mRNA. To date, this is the only case of GA in which a complete lack of OAT mRNA has been observed. Southern blot analyses of DNA isolated from these cell lines indicated that the gross structure of the OAT gene is usually not detectably altered in individuals with GA. However, a unique pattern of restriction fragments was observed upon digestion with Eco RI or Hind III of DNA from the GA cell line that does not express OAT mRNA. These unique Eco RI and Hind III fragments arise from the OAT structural gene and will serve as useful molecular markers that allow this particular defective OAT allele to be identified. When the cellular DNAs were digested with Hinf I and examined with a probe that corresponds to at least a portion of the active site of the enzyme, i.e., the pyridoxal phosphate binding site, identical patterns of fragments were detected in all samples. Therefore, it appears unlikely that the loss of OAT activity associated with these GA cases, 4 of which are pyridoxal phosphate responders, is the result of insertions or deletions in this region of the OAT gene. This study indicates that the lack of OAT enzyme activity associated with GA is the result of a variety of different molecular defects within the OAT gene.
20171391| A culture system is described in which rat kidney proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTE) can be prepared with good yield and high viability and grown in culture under serum-free conditions. The cells require EGF, insulin, cholera toxin and either 1% dialyzed serum or a complex of bovine serum albumin with oleic acid (BSA/OA). The cells can be maintained for long periods of time and express several markers for RPTE. The cells have both alkaline phosphatase and -glutamyltransferase activity and respond to parathyroid hormone but not vasopressin. The specific activity of -glutamyltransferase decreases when the cells begin to grow, but increases when they reach confluence. Extracellular calcium plays a role in the induction of -glutamyltransferase in confluent cells. Cells grown in media containing low calcium, i.e. less than 0.4 mM, have reduced specific activity of -glutamyltransferase. Extracellular calcium also alters the morphology of the cells in that cells grown in low calcium are single cells or loose clusters suggesting poor cell-cell contact. When the calcium is raised to 1.0 mM, the cells change their shape and organization to adopt the morphology of cells maintained continuously in 1.0 mM calcium. The cells can be passaged onto plastic surfaces which have been coated with collagen but cannot be subcultured on uncoated or serum coated plastic. This culture system will be a useful model for the investigation of renal carcinogenesis and the role of cell proliferation in that process. 
4295794|A new type of microcarrier was described using bead emulsion-polymerization techniques. An aqueous solution of gelatin and glutaraldehyde was dispersed in a hydrophobic phase of mineral oil, using Triton x-114 as an emulsifier, and polymerization was initiated. The resultant spherical beads, composed entirely of gelatin, showed excellent mechanical stability to ethanol drying, sterilization, and long-term use in microcarrier spinner cultures. The solid gelatin microcarriers supported the growth of L-929 fibroblast, swine aorta endothelial, human umbilical endothelial, and
4295941| The effect of laminin (LN) on the attachment and differentiation of a human retinoblastoma cell line (Y-79) was investigated. We found that 10 g/ml LN in the serum-free culture medium for 3 to 4 d induces 20 to 30% of the cells to firmly attach to a plastic substratum. This effect seems to be complex because the short-term effect of LN is inhibition of cell attachment. The specificity of LN may be indicated because antilaminin antibody counteracted this effect. The attached cells form small processes immediately after attachment and continue to proliferate, forming small colonies. Treatment of these cells with 4 mM dibutyryl-cyclic AMP (db-cAMP) or 2 mM sodium butyrate starting on the 3rd or 4th d of culture results in extensive differentiation of all the attached cells. Db-cAMP provokes the formation of long ramifying neuritelike processes whereas butyrate induces the appearance of epithelial-like cells with a flat morphology. Thus, laminin seems to act in concert with other agents promoting attachment and potentiating differentiation. 
4295820|Isolated hepatocytes from adult rat liver were prepared after dissociation of the liver with EDTA. The morphological appearance, viability (94.5%) and yield (
4296673|Neural crest cells from both white mutant and dark (wildtype) axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum) were cultured in increasing concentrations of fetal bovine serum (FBS; 2 to 20%). For each explant, the total number of cells that migrated and the percent of differentiated melanophores were recorded. At concentrations of FBS above 2% melanophore differentiation was essentially equivalent (32 to 59%) for both the white and dark neural crest cultures, but subtle differences in cell behavior and differentiation were found between the two phenotypes. By contrast there was a significant difference in the percent melanization of cells in serum-free control cultures, wherein melanophore differentiation in dark neural crest cultures was, on average, 18% compared to 5% in white cultures. Thus, contrary to all previously published work, white and dark neural crest cells are not intrinsically equivalent. Our culture results are discussed with regard to the probable in vivo conditions that cause the white phenotype.
4296935|Chimeric DNA expression vectors containing regulatory sequences proximal to the 5' end of coding sequences for mammalian genes provide valuable tools to study gene expression. Genes coding for easily measured products (reporter genes) can be used to study promoter strength and regulation of gene expression after transient expression of promoter-reporter constructs in mammalian cells. To determine the strength of a variety of mammalian and viral promoter-enhancer sequences in primary cultures of human mammary epithelial cells (HMEC), these sequences were fused to the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene and transfected into HMEC using strontium phosphate. The long terminal repeat (LTR) of the endogenous murine leukemia virus AKR-623 was the most potent promoter of transient CAT expression in HMEC. A number of commonly available promoter sequences displayed a wide range of activities in these cells. The glucocorticoid responsive LTR promoter from the murine mammary tumor virus modulated expression of CAT and was sensitive to the concentration of dexamethasone in the growth media. In a similar fashion, the regulatory sequences from the murine metallothionein-1 gene retained responsiveness to zinc concentration in the growth media.
20171535|Mandibular first molars from 17-d-old mouse embryos were cultured in vitro for 2 to 4 d by a simple, disposable, improved floatation method. This method consisted of using a 24-well multidish and a plastic culture chamber with a membrane filter. The improved floatation method, as well as our previous method, was capable of the three-dimensional development of tooth germs. Cytodifferentiation of odontoblasts and ameloblasts and formation of extracellular matrices were accelerated by the present culture system, in comparison with our previous method. All the molars cultivated by this method were very similar in morphology to in vivo. On Day 2 of culture the terminal cytodifferentiation of odontoblasts and the formation of predentin were ascertained in the bucco-lingual sections of the cultured molars. A thick layer of predentin was formed at the tip of the cusp and gradually decreased toward the cervical loop and the fissure between the buccal and lingual cusps. On Day 4 in vitro, secretory ameloblasts produced enamel matrix, and the mineralized enamel showed prismatic structure very similar to that in vivo. Dentin and predentin also were normal in ultrastructure. The extracellular matrices (enamel, dentine, and predentin) were formed in line with the pattern of the cusp and the formation of matrices normally started at the tip of the cusp. We conclude that the three-dimensional development of whole tooth germs in vitro may be very important for normal expression of the developmental program intrinsic to mouse embryonic molars.
20171507| Human proximal tubule kidney cells grown in a serum-free tissue culture medium were exposed to concentrations of CdCl in a range of 0.5 to 10 g/ml. Cells were observed from 1 to 20 d upon initiation of cadmium in the culture fluid. Both confluent and subconfluent populations of cells were treated and evaluated for cytotoxicity. Both populations exhibited a concentration-dependent toxicity to ionic cadmium. For cells treated with 2.0 to 10 g/ml Cd, the decreases in cell numbers were largely irreversible. However, cells treated with Cd in a range of 0.5 to 1.0 g/ml exhibited a partial recovery of cell number and control morphology. In this range, recovery was more efficient in the subconfluent cultures. Fine structural alterations in Cd-treated tubule cells included condensation of nuclear chromatin, loss of microvilli structure, disorganization of lateral membrane interdigitation, as well as decreased uptake of aminoglycoside antibiotics as evidenced by decreased numbers of myeloid bodies in these cells. The results of this study imply that use of a human proximal tubule culture system has potential in discerning structural and functional effects of cadmium as well as other nephrotoxic metals and compounds on the human kidney. 
4296466|We have developed a method that separates rat adrenocortical cells by density into populations which retain zone specific properties in primary culture. Two different parenchymal populations were obtained and designated 2FASC (1.034 g/ml,
4296062|Using gelatin, casein, and fibronectin as substrates and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), we have identified protein-degrading enzymes in both normal and Rous sarcoma virus-transformed primary avian tendon cells. Although there are some consistent differences in the profile of the gelatinolytic activities (mainly metalloproteinases) between normal and transformed cells, the amounts of fibronectin-degrading activities seem to be comparable. In vitro studies reported here demonstrate that the degradation of fibronectin is partially and specifically inhibited by gelatin and collagen. We therefore propose that the abundant collagen present in normal tendon cells protects fibronectin against degradation. Conversely, in transformed cells, where collagen levels are drastically reduced, fibronectin may be more accessible to degradation. Thus differences in the steady-state levels of fibronectin on normal and transformed cells may be, at least in part, a consequence of changes in collagen levels.
4296378|The proximate cholesterol precursors lathosterol, 7-dehydrocholesterol and desmosterol supported the growth of NS-1 and X63 mouse myeloma cells. These cells and X63.653 cells are cholesterol auxotrophs, yet each was able to convert
4296823|Synthetic oligopeptides were used to study the specificity of the interaction between heparin and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) in competition experiments. DNA synthesis in PDGF-dependent human arterial smooth muscle cell (hASMC) cultures was used as a biological tracer of PDGF activity. Oligo-108-124 (corresponding to amino acid residues 108-124 of the long PDGF A-chain isoform) had no effect on DNA synthesis in itself but competed at
4295908|An easily prepared and stable protein fraction from chick egg yolk promotes cell division (40 h generation time) and expression of procollagen (60% of total protein synthesis) in primary avian tendon cells in a serum-free medium. The activity of this yolk fraction (YF) is proteinaceous as reflected by its sensitivity to protease treatment. Yolk fraction is resolved into four major components on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with apparent molecular weights of 82,70,42,35 ( 10
4296784|The role of collagen in microvascular growth was investigated using the aortic ring model of angiogenesis. Collagen production by vasoformative outgrowths in plasma clot culture of rat aorta was either stimulated with ascorbic acid or inhibited with the proline analogue cis-hydroxyproline. Microvessels proliferating in the absence of ascorbic acid supplements became ectatic and developed large lumina. In contrast, newly formed microvessels in the presence of ascorbic acid remained small and maintained thin lumina throughout the angiogenic process. Biochemical studies demonstrated enhanced collagen production and deposition in cultures treated with ascorbic acid. Ultrastructural studies of these cultures showed a marked increase in newly formed interstitial collagen in the perivascular matrix and in regions of the plasma clot containing nonendothelial mesenchymal cells. Small microvessels with thin lumina similar to the ones observed in ascorbic acid-treated plasma clot cultures were obtained by growing aortic explants in gels of interstitial collagen in the absence of ascorbic acid. Inhibition of collagen production with the proline analogue cis-hydroxyproline had a marked anti-angiogenic effect in both plasma clot and collagen gel cultures. The anti-angiogenic effect of cis-hydroxyproline was abolished by adding L-proline to the culture medium, thereby restoring normal metabolism. These results support the hypothesis that angiogenesis is regulated by collagen production and suggest that the size of newly formed microvessels is influenced by the degree of collagenization of the extracellular matrix.
4296323|Histologic examination of shoot-tip explants, 1 wk after culture initiation on Murashige and Skoog medium with 2.5 mg/liter 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 0.05 mg/liter kinetin, reveals active meristematic centers inside cultured tissue. Clusters of cells in these meristematic centers exhibit remarkable resemblance to the initial three divisions in the zygotic embryo. Several such meristematic groups of cells are observed in the cultured explant at this stage. Embryogenesis is obviously initiated very early in this tissue in the presence of 2,4-D. A well-defined, white globular embryogenic callus develops in culture in about 4 wk, and it consists of clusters of embryoids with large cells characterized by thick cell walls, numerous lipoidal vesicles, and localized areas of carbohydrate storage. These cells resemble the scutellar tissue of the embryo. However, there are cells within this tissue that themselves appear embryogenic. They undergo cell division giving rise to small clusters of cells. As long as 2,4-D is present in the medium, the cells apparently retain the capacity to proliferate and to produce more cells capable of embryogenesis. Embryogenesis seems to occur via two processes, initiation of somatic embryos early in culture and secondary embryogensis from the scutellar tissue that forms in vitro.
4296810|The purpose of this investigation was to provide evidence for the secretion of high molecular weight mucins, CTM-A and CTM-B, in primary culture of canine tracheal epithelial (CTE) cells. The cells were isolated from tracheas of mongrel dogs by pronase treatment. Primary cultures of the epithelial cells were established using ICN cellagen inserts in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's/F12 medium supplemented with growth factors and could be maintained for up to 23 days. The evidence for the mucin secretion in culture medium and their localization in the cells was established by a) positive immunocytochemical staining using specific antibodies developed against purified native as well as deglycosylated CTM-A and CTM-B; b) incorporation of labeled amino acids, followed by electrophoresis and autoradiography detection of glycoconjugates purified from the culture medium; c) comparison of the amino acid compositions of mucin purified from canine tracheal pouch secretions and that purified from the culture medium; and d) Western blot analyses using specific polyclonal antibodies directed against deglycosylated CTM-A and CTM-B. Immunoaffinity purified secreted labeled glycoconjugates were resistant to hyaluronidase treatment. The effects of cyclic AMP (1  10
4296397|When areas of research become interdisciplinary their jargon, techniques and bodies of information are utilized widely in diverse disciplines. At such times, reciprocal use of terminology by individuals who had not previously used it is often misused and, therefore, confusion occurs. This confusion is especially acute in the field of vertebrate, invertebrate and plant cell culture. There is hardly a field of biological investigation in which culturing of such cells is not employed. Similarly, molecular biology and molecular genetics are lending their technology to an everwidening group of researchers who are communicating in a more global sense via scientific presentations, publications and research proposals. Unfortunately often the writer and reader represent different areas of specialization who have been brought together by the common technology used in their work. As such, misuse of terminology can prove unfortunate indeed; anything from inability to repeat a piece of research to problems in publishing a paper or obtaining funding of a research proposal. The following glossary, approved by the Tissue Culture Association Terminology Committee is published in an effort to increase communication between scientists and between scientists and the lay community.
4296617|We have investigated the regulation of the two normal differentiation pathways followed by laryngeal epithelium. Using a tissue culture system that permits growth of cells at the air-liquid interface in serum-free medium, we found that modulating the concentration of retinoic acid is sufficient to determine which pathway is used. At
4296954| A novel culture technique, which supports the growth and differentiation of mouse embryonic palatal epithelial cells in the absence of either an extracellular matrix substratum or feeder layers, has been developed. Using this technique we have investigated the effects of exogenous transforming growth factor alpha (TGF) and serum on extracellular matrix biosynthesis by primary cultures of mouse embryonic epithelial sheets under defined experimental conditions. In all culture treatments (chemically defined medium with and without TGF or serum) the palatal epithelial sheets differentiated into three regionally distinct cell phenotypes after 36 h. Nasal and oral cells differentiated into pseudostratified, cilliated columnar, and stratified squamous keratinizing epithelium, respectively. In addition, basal medial edge epithelial (MEE) cells at the oral/nasal regional interface assumed an elongated cobblestoned phenotype. In serum-free medium, collagen types IV and V, laminin, fibronectin, and heparan sulphate proteoglycan were detected immunocytochemically throughout the entire epithelial sheet. Tenascin and collagen IX were present almost exclusively in MEE cells. Types I, II, and III collagen were completely absent. Addition of TGF or serum universally increased the intensity of staining, most notably that for tenascin and collagen IX in MEE cells. These results indicate that mouse embryonic palatal epithelial sheets can be maintained under defined culture conditions during which they exhibit patterns of differentiation similar to those observed in vivo. TGF, known to localize to the MEE in vivo, can modulate palatal extracellular matrix biosynthesis, particularly by the MEE, suggesting a regulatory role for this factor. The culture system is suitable for further investigating the effects of exogenous factors on mouse embryonic palatal epithelial cell bioactivity and differentiation. 
4296060|Scleroblasts were separated from fragmented tissue of growing tips of Leptogorgia virgulata and cultured using a modification of the technique of Rannou. Replacement of fetal bovine serum with horse serum seemed to increase scleroblast viability. Cell adhesion occurred from 14 to 43 d. Cultured scleroblasts demonstrated cell aggregation, spicule formation, and extrusion of spicules into the external medium. Cells showing spicules in the process of being extruded appeared on the average after 24 d of culture. Variability among cultures was marked with respect to both division and spicule formation. Healthy cultures were maintained for more than 4 mo.
20171429| Mature soybean cotyledons (Maturity group VII) were cultured on modified MS containing 0-2.5 M indole-butyric acid (IBA); 0-10 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) and 0.7% agar. Embryonic axes of explants were removed prior to culture initiation and cultures were incubated at 24 C with 45-50 E. s.M of mixed irradiance with 16 h photoperiod. Shoot proliferation occurred at 0-2.5 M IBA and 5-10 M BAP, while in the presence of 2.5 M IBA alone, only roots developed. Abnormal shoots were produced with 2.5 M IBA and 5-7.5 M thidiazuron. Adventitious shoot development started 7-14 d after culture initiation in the region where the embryonic axis was previously attached to the cotyledon and shoots were visible within 28 days. The presence of the embryonic axis inhibited shoot morphogenesis. The shoots were rooted on half strength MS inorganic salts plus vitamins, 2% sucrose, 0.5 M NAA acid or 2.5-5 M IBA, or 5-10 M IAA, and 0.7% agar. Rooted plants were acclimatized under a mist in the greenhouse. This simple, rapid, in vitro adventitious shoot development protocol could be adapted for transformation/regeneration studies in soybean. 
4296059| Primary cultures of rat vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells were developed as models to study xenobiotic-induced cytotoxicity. Endothelial and smooth muscle cells were isolated by enzymatic digestion and mechanical dissociation of rat thoracic aortae. Optimal cell growth and minimal fibroblast contamination in cultures of both cell types were obtained in Medium 199 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Cultured cells were characterized by distinctive morphologic features and growth patterns. Intercellular endothelial cell junctions were selectively stained with silver nitrate. Endothelial cells also exhibited a nonthrombogenic surface, as reflected by platelet-binding studies. Confluent cultures of smooth muscle cells, but not endothelial cells, contracted in response to norepinephrine (10 M). Cultures of both cell types were exposed to acrolein (2, 5 or 50 ppm), an environmental pollutant, for 4 and 24 h. Morphologic damage, lactate dehydrogenase release, and cellular thiol content were used as indices of cytotoxicity. Acrolein-induced enzyme leakage and morpholgic alterations were dose- and time-dependent and more pronounced in cultures of smooth muscle cells than in endothelial cells. The total thiol content of endothelial cells exposed to acrolein (50 ppm) for 24 h was not significantly different from that of respective controls. In contrast, the content of treated smooth muscle cells was higher than that of controls. These observations show that primary cultures of vascular cells provide a useful model to evaluate xenobiotic-induced cytotoxicity. The information obtained using a cell culture system may be complemented by the use of other in vivo and in vitro models to determine the mechanisms by which xenobiotics cause vascular cell injury. 
4295757|Endothelial cells from the canine or human thoracic duct were harvested using 0.2% collagenase digestion and grown in Media 199 supplemented with fetal bovine serum. The canine endothelial cells grew to confluence (4.4 to
4296313|In this report we compare attachment, morphology, and growth of retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells isolated by either EDTA or dispase digestion and plated onto either uncoated substrata (plastic or glass) or substrata derivatized by covalent conjugation of proteins of reconstituted basement membrane gel. We show that the derivatized substrata promote better initial attachment and subsequent cell growth than the uncoated substrata. These effects are independent of the method of dissociation of cells from the tissue. Cell morphology, however, is strongly affected by the method used for tissue dispersion. The dispase-dissociated cells are very flat, display a circumferential arrangement of microfilaments and elaborate extensive arrays of vinculin-containing cell-to-cell junctions. In contrast, EDTA-dissociated cells are much less spread, display straight microfilament bundles criss-crossing the cytoplasm and have less extensive cell-to-cell junctions. The protein-derivatized substrata also promote maintenance of differentiated traits, such as pigmentation, by the RPE cells.
4296225|We report the development of culture conditions which routinely support clonal growth of normal human uroepithelial cells (HUC). Secondary cultures seeded at clonal densities and grown under conditions described herein have a colony-forming efficiency (CFE) and colony size that will be useful for in vitro experiments. Primary cultures were dispersed to single cells and seeded in a supplemented Ham's F12 medium containing 1% fetal bovine serum together with 3  10
4295972|Human diploid fibroblasts were cultured on microcarriers made from DEAE-dextran, denatured collagen, DEAE-dextran linked to denatured collagen, and glass. Cells grown on these four substrates were examined for the production of proteolytic enzymes and arachidonic acid metabolites. Culture fluids from cells grown on the DEAE-dextran microcarriers contained the highest amounts of proteolytic enzyme activity. Both plasminogen-independent and plasminogen-dependent fibrinolytic activities were present and the plasminogen-dependent activity seemed to result from the presence of both urokinase and tissue plasminogen activator. Culture fluid from the cells grown on the glass microcarriers contained the least amount of protease activity, and nearly all of the plasminogen-activator activity seemed to be of the urokinase type. Protease activity in the culture fluids of cells grown on the other two substrates were intermediate. With regard to arachidonic acid metabolites, cells grown on the DEAE-dextran microcarriers produced the highest amounts of cyclooxygenase products but very low levels of lipoxygenase metabolites. Cells grown on the other three substrates produced comparable amounts of various cyclooxy genase products (lower than that produced by cells on the DEAE-dextran substrate). Cells grown on the glass microcarriers also produced detectable amounts of two lipoxygenase metabolites-leukotriene B
20171363| Responses of a recently developed rat alveolar macrophage cell (NR8383.1) line were compared to those of freshly derived alveolar macrophages in vitro. Marked inter- and intraspecies heterogeneity in levels of phagocytosis of unopsonized Pseudomonas aeruginosa or zymosan was noted among freshly derived alveolar macrophages from rats, rabbits, and baboons. In contrast, phagocytic responses of alveolar macrophage cell line were predictable and highly reproducible. Similar results were obtained in measuring oxidative burst, as indicated by the production of HO and luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence. Responses were again highly variable in freshly derived alveolar macrophages stimulated with zymosan or phorbol myristic acetate; moreover, freshly derived alveolar macrophages exhibited a wide range of chemiluminescence activity in unstimulated cultures. Results strongly suggest that data derived from the continuous alveolar macrophage culture NR8383.1 can be extrapolated to freshly derived alveolar macrophages of various species, and in many experiments will be useful in avoiding the significant animal-to-animal variance observed among freshly derived cell preparations. 
4296335|The presence of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) in focal nodules of hepatocytes is a commonly used marker for the identification of preneoplastic cell populations. Female Fischer 344 rats were initiated with a single intragastric administration of 200 mg diethylnitrosamine/kg, altered cells were selected after 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene was given in the diet; this was followed by a partial hepatectomy and promotion with dietary sodium phenobarbital for 4 wk. A mixed-cell population of GGT-positive and GGT-negative hepatocytes was obtained after collagenase perfusion and Percoll purification. An enriched population of GGT-positive hepatocytes was obtained by a modified "panning" technique. With quantitative scintillation spectrometry and autoradiography of [
4296243|A technique for the isolation of human intrahepatic bile ductular epithelium, and the establishment of primary cultures using a serum- and growth-factor-supplemented medium combined with a connective tissue substrata is described. Initial cell isolates and monolayer cultures display phenotypic characteristics of biliary epithelial cells (low molecular weight prekeratin positive; albumin, alphafetoprotein, and Factor VIII-related antigen negative). Ultrastructural features of the cultured cells show cell polarization with surface microvilli, numerous interepithelial junctional complexes and cytoplasmic intermediate prekeratin filaments.
4296341|We have developed methods for the culture of human endometrial glandular epithelia in vitro. The culture medium is serum-free and is used in combination with Matrigel, an extracellular matrix material applied as a coating on cell culture plates. Cell growth begins as a monolayer, but the cells subsequently form glandular or organoid structures. The glands are composed of polar columnar cells facing a central lumen, which is enclosed by the apical surfaces of cells displaying numerous microvilli and sealed by tight junction complexes. The ability to study in vitro the complex process of glandular morphogenesis represents an important new tool in cell biology which may be used to investigate growth regulation, hormone production and dependency, and cellular recognition and interactions. Ultimately, these characteristics may be applied to study the alterations of glandular epithelia associated with neoplasia.
4296531|Acinar cells have been difficult to maintain in primary or secondary cultures over extended periods of time. The most successful monolayer culture system reported to date requires basement membrane substrates. We report here a technique for culture of rat parotid acinar cells which does not rely upon basement membrane supports for maintenance and growth. The procedure involves gland excision, treatment to chelate metal ions, enzymatic digestion with collagenases and hyaluronidase, removal of fat and red blood cells by gravimetric separation, and nylon mesh filtration to yield a homogeneous suspension of small aggregates and single cells. The cells were examined for: a) morphology, identity, and growth; b) macromolecular synthesis; and c) secretory output. They were healthy, peroxidase positive, and growing for up to 10 d. Protein synthesis increased from the point of cell layer formation at 3 to 4 d, through 10 d, while DNA synthesis decreased. As in other studies, amylase secretion fell sharply between 2 and 4 d in culture and remained low. Although previous studies indicated that the initial isolation protocol left these acinar cells unable to thrive in monolayer culture except in the presence of basement membrane substrates, the modified technique reported herein allows these cells to attach, spread, and grow on a wide variety of commercially available plasticware. This method lends itself readily to long-term analysis of rat parotid acinar cell metabolism without the complications of dedifferentiation, cell loss through culture manipulation common in suspension cultures, or complex interactions between bioactive supports and cell surfaces.
4295819|A novel incubation unit is described that is highly suitable for thorough studies of oxygen deprivation states. Its application with cultured heart cells is experimentally demonstrated. The release of enzymes, taken as a marker for cell damage, has clearly shown that restriction of the volume of extracellular medium combined with oxygen plus glucose deprivation caused greatest cellular damage. It may be considered as an experimental ischemia-like state. Furthermore, the onset of cellular damage followed a time table very much like that occurring in vivo under similar conditions, more so than any other previously described studies. A time lag between the release of cytoplasmic enzymes and lysosomal enzymes and other observations made in the present study suggests a sequential order of events in which the release of cytoplasmic enzymes occurs at a stage of reversible damage due to oxygen deprivation, whereas the release of lysosomal enzymes may point at irrepairable damage.
4296667|Cultured pig aortic smooth muscle cells maintain a viable, quiescent state in a chemically defined medium that contains 10
4296374|Three new cell lines, designated NIVI-CH-440, NIVI-CH-442, and NIVI-CH-445, derived from the embryonated eggs of the bed-bug Cimex hemipterus (F.) have been established. The cell lines consist of epithelial-like (80%), fibroblastlike (19%), and giant cells (1%). The chromosomes were holokinetic and there was no distinct stemline chromosome number at either early or late passage. The cultures showed two Malate dehydrogenase bands, one dark, the other faint; but no lactate dehydrogenase band. The cultures did not support the multiplication of Japanese encephalitis, Chikungunya, or Dengue-2 viruses, nor did Coxiella burnetii multiply in them.
4295775|Primary avian tendon cells maintain a higher percentage of net collagen synthesis when cultured in low serum concentrations than in high. However, under these conditions the cells grow slowly and can only be subcultured one or two times. We therefore examined various growth factors for their effects on tendon cell multiplication in order to develop a new medium for these cells. Of the growth factors tested, epidermal growth factor, insulin, transferrin, and selenium each stimulated tendon cell division. We also investigated how these factors affected collagen synthesis, and found that they all increased both collagen and noncollagen protein synthesis equally, thus leaving the percentage of protein synthesis devoted to collagen the same. When combined with 0.2% fetal bovine serum in Ham's F12 medium, epidermal growth factor and insulin together stimulated cell multiplication to a level comparable to that of cells grown in Ham's F12 plus 10% serum. Cells could also be successfully subcultured in this medium. Thus, by using selected growth factors we have reduced significantly the serum requirements of cultured tendon cells without affecting population doubling time or subculture capability. This low-serum medium should prove useful for the study of the regulation of collagen biosynthesis.
4296791|During our studies of cytostatic cytokines in the mixed leukocyte culture, we found that horse serum in the medium control contained a tumor cell growth-inhibitory factor. The fraction isolated by molecular sieving and ion exchange chromatography inhibited the growth and DNA synthesis of the primary culture and passaged cell line of the canine transmissible venereal sarcoma, murine T (L5178Y) and B (P3-X63-Ag8.653) lymphoid tumor cells, murine mammary tumor cells (RIII), bovine lymphoid tumor cells (BL3), and the nontransformed cell line of baby hamster kidney cells. Nontransformed cell lines such as African green monkey kidney (Vero) and Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells and normal mammary cells of the dog and goat were inhibited only at high concentrations. The active component is a protein with an R
4296093| Methods have been developed for culturing a dividing population of morphologically differentiated rat parotid, lacrimal, and pancreatic acinar cells in vitro. Isolated acinar cells were plated onto tissue culture dishes coated with a three-dimensional, reconstituted basement membrane gel. After attachment in Ham's nutrient mixture F12, the cells were cultured at 35 C in F12 supplemented with 10% heat inactivated rat serum, epidermal growth factor, dexamethasone, insulin, transferrin, selenium, putrescine, reduced glutathione, ascorbate, penicillin, streptomycin, and the appropriate secretagogue. Under these conditions, the cells attached rapidly and DNA synthesis was initiated within 2 to 3 d. Although the cells flattened on the substratum, they continued to maintain their differentiated morphology. The cells contained secretory granules, and the secretory enzymes peroxidase and amylase could be detected. The use of a reconstituted basement membrane gel proved critical for the attachment and growth of exocrine acinar cells. 
4295760|Long-term cultures of hepatocytes were established from livers of human fetuses obtained by abortion at 18 to 23 wk of gestation. Cells obtained by collagenase dissociation of liver were maintained in defined serum-free medium on a substratum of positively charged plastic. Under these conditions, the cells divide and form a confluent monolayer. After multiple passages over a period of 3 mo., the cells retained an epithelioid morphology and continued to synthesize and secrete albumin.
20171496|We have previously demonstrated that confluent fetal fibroblasts migrate into three-dimensional collagen gels to a significantly greater extent than their normal adult counterparts. Recent studies have revealed that this behavioral difference results from the secretion by fetal fibroblasts of a soluble migration-stimulating factor (MSF) which acts on these cells in an autocrine fashion. Adult fibroblasts do not produce MSF but remain responsive to it. Skin fibroblasts from cancer patients resemble fetal fibroblasts (rather than normal adult cells) with respect to their migratory behavior on collagen gels and continued production of MSF. This communication is concerned with elucidating the biochemical basis of MSF activity. Data are presented indicating that a) hyaluronic acid is required for the elevated migratory activity displayed by confluent fetal and breast cancer patient skin fibroblast; b) adult fibroblasts exhibit a bell-shaped dose-response to MSF, with maximal stimulation of migration observed at a concentration of 10 ng/ml; c) the migratory activity of adult fibroblasts pre-incubated with MSF remains high in the absence of additional factor: and d) MSF affects both the quantity and size class distribution of hyaluronic acid synthesized by adult fibroblasts. We have previously speculated that the persistent fetal-like fibroblasts of breast cancer patients play a direct role in disease pathogenesis by perturbing normal epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. The observations reported here suggest that MSF-induced alterations in hyaluronic acid synthesis may contribute to the molecular basis of such perturbations.
4296471|The contents of nitrogen-containing compounds and the activities of nitrate assimilating enzymes were determined in tobacco callus cultured under shoot-forming and non-shoot-forming conditions. Whole tissue and tissues cut into top and bottom portions were examined. Highes levels of total-N, protein-N, nitrate and ammonium-N, as well as higher activities of nitrate and nitrite reductases were found in shoot-forming whole tissue and in the shoot-forming bottom portion of tobacco callus in comparison to the non-shoot-forming proliferating tissues throughout the culture period. These findings indicate that enhanced nitrogen assimilation occurs during de novo shoot organogenesis.
20171512| Cultured type II pneumocyte responses to in vitro normoxia (95% air:5% CO) or hyperoxia (95% O:5% CO) were quantified. Normoxic culture (0 to 96 h) of rabbit type II cells resulted in enhanced cell-monolayer protein and DNA content. During this same time, cellular activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GSH Px) decreased. Compared to cultures maintained in normoxia, hyperoxic exposure of cultures resulted in decreased cell-associated protein and DNA content. Exposure to hyperoxia also resulted in cytotoxicity as demonstrated by elevated cellular release of DNA, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and preincorporated 8-[C]adenine. Cellular catalase and GSH Px activities in hyperoxic cells decreased similarly to normoxic controls. In contrast, cellular SOD activity in hyperoxic cells decreased less than in normoxic cultures. Cellular SOD activity in hyperoxic cultures, when normalized for cellular protein, but not DNA, was greater than normoxic values after 24 to 96 h of exposure. Unlike the decrease in cellular antioxidant enzymes during normoxic and hyperoxic culture, cellular LDH activity increased during both these exposures. Cellular LDH activity in 24 to 96 h hyperoxia-exposed cells increased to a lesser extent than normoxic controls. The extent of depression in LDH activity was dependent on whether the activity was normalized for cellular protein or DNA. Type II pneumocytes, which normally undergo hyperplasia and hypertrophy during hyperoxia in vivo, exhibited oxygen sensitivity in vitro. Exposure of type II cells to hyperoxia in vitro resulted in alterations in cellular SOD and LDH activities, but recognition of such changes were dependent on whether enzymatic activities were normalized for cellular DNA or protein. 
20171404| Thrombin-stimulated human platelets adhere to and injure cultured human endothelial cells. We hypothesize that generation of active oxygen species by the stimulated platelets are involved in the injury. To confirm this, catalase [final concentration (8.25 g/ml)], superoxide dismutase (SOD) (10 g/ml), of D-mannitol (9 mg/ml) were added to the cell culture medium before the experiments. Platelet suspension (200.000/l) and thrombin (4 U/ml) were added and the culture dishes shaken for 15 min at room temperature. In separate experiments the endothelial cells were pretreated with acetylsalicylic acid (0.05, 0.1, or 0.5 mM) to test whether the arachidonic acid metabolism of the endothelial cells is involved in the injury process. In preliminary experiments we were able to confirm that platelets, when stimulated by thrombin, produce chemiluminescence which was suppressed by mannitol but not by catalase or SOD. The degree of injury to cultured endotheial cells by thrombin-stimulated platelets, as measured by release of Cr from prelabeled endothelial cells, was reduced significantly with the presence of mannitol, but only moderately when catalase or SOD had been added. Morphometric quantification based on scanning electron micrographs of the endothelial cells after exposure to thrombin-stimulated platelets in the presence of catalase or mannitol showed a reduced number of injured cells. Pretreatment of the endothelial cells with acetylsalicylic acid did not cause any significant change in the degree of endothelial cell injury as measured by the Cr release. It is concluded that active oxygen species, in particular hydroxyl radicals, may be generated during thrombin stimulation of platelets and cause injury to the endothelial cells. 
4296534| A population of freshly isolated adult rat cardiac myocytes is spatially oriented using a computerized mechanical cell stimulator device for tissue cultured cells. A continuous unidirectional stretch of the substratum at 60 to 400 m/min for 120 to 30 min, respectively, during the cell attachment period in serum-free medium induces a significant three-fold increase in the number of rod-shaped myocytes oriented parallel to the direction of movement. The myocytes orient less well with unidirectional substratum stretching after their adhesion to the substratum. In contrast, adult myocytes plated onto a substratum undergoing continuous 10% stretch-relaxation cycling show no significant change in myocyte orientation or cytoskeletal organization. Orientation of rod-shaped myocytes is dependent on several factors other than the type of mechanical activity. These include: a) the speed of substratum movement; b) the final stretch amplitude; and c) the timing between initiation of substratum stretching and adhesion of myocytes to the substratum. Oriented adult rod shaped myocytes representing 65 to 70% of the total myocyte population in this model system can now be submitted to different patterns of repetitive mechanical stimulation for the study of stretch-induced alterations in cell growth and gene expression. 
4296054|A difference was observed in the effect of difluoromethlyornithine (DFMO), a specific inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, on human and murine granulocyte-macrophage precursor cell (CFU-C) proliferation in vitro, in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS) and horse serum (HS). A dose of DFMO which almost totally abolished CFU-C colonies in cultures containing FBS had no effect or very little effect on CFU-C in cultures supplemented with HS. This effect could be reversed by aminoguanidine reacting with diamine oxidase (DAO), which is present in FBS but not in HS. The importance of DAO in the assessment of polyamine effects is also suggested by decreased colony formation in cultures containing HS and DFMO only after the addition of this enzyme. Additionally, Mo T cell line cultures containing DFMO demonstrated a substantially lower intracellular concentration of putrescine in the presence of FBS rather than HS.
4295841|A method for measuring respiratory activity in anchorage-dependent cultured cells has been developed. This method is based on a technique that permits the perfusion of standard plastic culture dishes with attached cells. Basal respiratory activities were studied in two continuous cell lines of neural origin, neuroblastoma C1300 clone
4295725|We have previously reported the transformation by Rous sarcoma virus of a cloned epithelial cell line (BRL) established from Buffalo rat liver by H. Coon. The nontransformed (BRL) and transformed (RSV-BRL) cells grew at comparable rates in culture, whereas only the transformed cells were tumorigenic in vivo. We report here on the existence in rat and mouse sera of a growth inhibitor for the nontransformed BRL cells. The transformed BRL cells (RSV-BRL) were insensitive to this inhibitor. The inhibitory activity was not prominent in sera from other species of animals tested except for rabbit; this serum inhibited the growth of RSV-BRL cells more strongly than that of BRL cells. The growth inhibitor was partially purified from rat serum. It is a protein free of lipid and has a molecular weight of about 220 000. The inhibitor could be separated into three components of pI 4.6, 5.2 (major) and 5.6 by isoelectric electrophoresis.
20171362| We isolated osteoblastic cells derived from human periosteum and established them in culture. Their growth depended on the presence of ascorbic acid, and the doubling time was 40 to 60 h. The requirement for ascorbic acid was used to high production of collagen. These cells produced mainly type I collagen and only small amounts of type III collagen determined by reducing sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The total collagen yield was about 10 mg from 2  10 cells. The cells could be continuously cultured in -minimum essential medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum for 18 to 40 population doubling levels, depending on the age of the donated periosteum. These cells have the ability to calcify when incubated with 2 mM -glycerophosphate-Na. Calcification as viewed by the naked eye appeared from Day 15 after treatment. Treatment with the active formed vitamin D, 1, 25 dihydroxyvitamin D enhanced calcification significantly and stimulated osteocalcin production. By electron microscopy, cells with many projections on their surfaces showed well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum and actinlike fibers, and large numbers of lysosomes, mitochondria, and secretion granules. Many matrix vesicles, in which minerals were initially localized, and well-banded collagen fibrils were seen in the intercellular spaces. These observations demonstrate typical osteoblastic morphology. The above results indicate that cultured cells from human periostem are osteoblastic cells that have the capacity to differentiate into osteocytes and to deposit calcified minerals in response to 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D. 
4296242| Studies on the regulation of differentiation in airway epithelial cells have been hampered by the lack of cell culture systems that differentiate in vitro. One such system that does exhibit differentiation is hamster tracheal epithelial cells (HTE). A major problem with this system, however, is that at the time cells differentiate, they lyze the collagen gel upon which they grow, resulting in termination of the culture. Here we report that by growing the HTE cells at 32 instead of 37 C we can totally prevent lysis of the collagen gel. Cells grown at this lower temperature maintain their differentiated phenotype as evidenced by abundant mucus granules and the secretion of authentic mucus glycoproteins into the culture media. We have also developed a method for subculturing the primary cells which allows growth and differentiation in secondary culture. The HTE cells were capable of being passaged at least three times and did not become transformed as judged by their inability to grow in soft agar and to produce tumors in syngeneic animals. This improved HTE cell culture system will allow detailed studies on the mechanisms which regulate growth, differentiation, and mucus secretion in surface airway epithelial cells. 
4296063|Stationary culture of plant cell suspensions has been achieved. Slurries, produced when small amounts of agar (0.1-0.4%) were added to culture media, were used to suspend plant cells. Growth proceeded more slowly than in standard shake culture, but cells remained viable for months of culture. This method of growing plant cells in stationary culture should be useful for general applications including long-term cell culture, shipment of cultures, and physiological, molecular biological, and pathological studies.
20171491| Terminally differentiating mouse muscle cells were used to examine the relationship between myogenic withdrawal from the cell cycle and the levels of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) mRNA and DHFR activity. Differentiation was induced by removal of fibroblast growth factor activity from the medium. DHFR mRNA was measured by a RNase protection assay. DHFR activity was measured by a spectrophotometric assay and by a [H]methotrexate binding assay. Proliferative myoblasts contained four DHFR mRNA molecules and 1.8  10 DHFR enzyme molecules. By 12.5 h after induction, when [H]thymidine labeling indices showed all cells had withdrawn from the cell cycle, DHFR mRNA levels had declined to 0.7 copies per cell. In contrast, myogenic withdrawal did not result in reduced DHFR activity. Qualitatively similar results, i.e. down-regulation of mRNA and constitutive expression of activity, were observed in a methotrexate-selected muscle cell line with &gt; 50-fold amplification of the DHFR gene. Enzyme synthesis rate and stability measurements indicated that persistence of DHFR activity in postreplicative cells was due to a long enzyme lifetime rather than to continued synthesis from residual normal DHFR mRNA or an alternative mRNA species not detected by the RNase protection assay. Unlike DHFR, thymidine kinase (TK) activity disappeared rapidly as muscle cells differentiated. Both DHFR mRNA and TK mRNA are expressed in a replication-dependent manner; however, the enzymes encoded by these messages are subject to different fates in postreplicative cells. 
4296196|Normal colonic epithelial cell cultures of mammalian origin are required to facilitate the study of both normal cellular functions as well as pathogenesis of certain (human) colonic diseases. To date, little information is available regarding the growth requirements of colonic epithelial cells in culture of either animal or human origin. Such data would enable the development of a long-term culture system for these cells. In this study, we present methodology that results in the establishment of homogeneous cultures of adult rabbit colonic epithelia reproducibly, quickly, and in quantity. The epithelial nature of the cultures is unambiguously established by intermediate filament typing using antikeratin antibodies. Such cultures can now be used for a variety of functional studies as well as to investigate the growth requirements of colonic epithelia in culture.
4296768|The in-vitro effects of hydroxyurea 5-FU and 5-FUdR have been extensively studied in experimental systems employing cell-line techniques. In this study we investigated the effects of these drugs on the levels of incorporation of labeled nucleosides into DNA in explants of intact rat colonic mucosa maintained in organ culture. The effects of the nucleoside transport inhibitors nitrobenzylthioinosine (NBMPR) and dipyridamole-which are modulators of antimetabolite cytotoxicity -on the incorporation of tritiated thymidine
20171379| The growth of GHC, GH, GH, and GHC rat pituitary tumor cell lines was studied in a serum-free medium (designated TRM-1) formulated with 1:1 (vol/vol) mixture of Ham's F12 nutrient mixture and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (F12-DME) containing 15 mM 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), 50 g/ml gentamicin supplemented with 10 g/ml bovine insulin, 10 g/ml human transferrin (Tf), 10 ng/ml selenous acid, 10 nM 3,5,3- triiodothyronine (T) 50 M ethanolamine (Etn), and 500 g/ml bovine serum albumin. Of the lines evaluated, only the GH failed to grow in TRM-1. Passage of the GHC and GH lines from serum-containing medium into TRM-1 caused an initial selection resulting in cells that grew progressively at higher rates and finally were maintained indefinitely in TRM-1. These populations showed a requirement for supraphysiologic concentrations of T (1.0 to 10 nM). After adaptation of the GHC line in TRM-1 for 20 generations, removal of components gave a less complex mixture containing 15 mM HEPES, 50 g/ml gentamicin, 10 g/ml Tf, 10 nM T, and 50 M Etn (designated TRM-2) that supported serial passage of the cells. Under these conditions, thyroid hormone dependence was lost progressively. When T was removed from TRM-2 adapted cells, a third population was selected that no longer required thyroid hormones and was only slightly stimulated by T. These studies demonstrated that the combination of serum-containing and serum-free conditions can be used to select pituitary cell populations that a) required both serum-factor(s) adn T for optimum growth, b) required supraphysiologic concentrations of T without serum proteins other than Tf and albumin, and c) were completely autonomous in that they proliferated in medium supplemented only with Tf and nutrients without necessity of other serum factor(s) or T. 
4296910|We have investigated the molecular phenotypic differences between Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) cells cultured at pH 6.7 or 7.3. Multiple pH-sensitive phenotypic differences were noted including changes in cellular morphology, a unique charge differential in a major cellular protein, nine uniquely expressed proteins, two unique phosphoserine/threonine phosphoproteins, one unique phosphotyrosine phosphoprotein, and the pH dependent mRNA level of a gap junctional gene (connexin 43). These differences, combined with previously described pH-specific differences (differential transformation rates and gap junctional communication), illustrate that culturing SHE cells in media that differ by 0.6 pH units (0.3 units on either side of pH 7.0) can have a profound influence on the cellular phenotype.
4296299|The developing avian limb bud is a classic example of an epithelial-mesenchymal interaction. Numerous attempts at maintenance of the epithelia in culture have been predominantly unsuccessful. The fate of the isolated epithelial sheet of the limb bud [including the apical ectodermal ridge (AER)] in culture may depend at least in part on the integrity of its basal lamina following isolation. In this study the distal epithelium of the stage 23 limb bud was isolated utilizing trypsin and Dispase II in a variety of procedures. The integrity of the basal lamina of limb epithelium immediately upon isolation and after 2 h in culture was determined by immunofluprescent staining for laminin, and electron microscopy. In epithelial sheets isolated with Dispase II a direct relationsip was observed between maintenance of the extracellular matrix at isolation and the preservation of the tissue structure and cytoarchitecture following 2 h in culture. In contrast, there was an accelerated deterioration during incubation of the tissue isolated with trypsin, independent of isolation conditions and integrity of basal lamina after isolation. Short-term maintenance of limb bud epithelial structure and cytoarchitecture after enzymatic isolation seems correlative to the maintenance of extracellular matrix at the epithelial basal surface.
20171474|A new computerized mechanical cell stimulator device for tissue cultured cells is described which maintains the cells in a horizontal position during mechanical stretching of up to 400% in substratum length. Mechanical stimulation of myogenic cells in this device initiates several aspects of in vivo skeletal muscle organogenesis not seen in normal static tissue culture environments. Embryonic skeletal muscle cells from avian m. pectoralis are grown in the device attached to the collagen-coated elastic substratum. Dynamic stretching of the substratum in one direction for 3 d at a rate (0.35 mm/h) that simulates in vivo bone elongation during development causes the myoblasts to fuse into parallel arrays of myotubes which are 2 to 4 times longer than myotubes grown under static culture conditions. This longitudinal myotube growth is accompanied by increased rates of cell proliferation and myoblast fusion. Prestretching the collagen-coated substratum before cell plating also results in increased cell proliferation, myotube orientation, and longitudinal myotube growth. The effects of substratum stretching on myogenesis in this model system thus occur by alterations in the cell's extracellular matrix and not by acting directly on the cells.
4296828| Rat embryos were explanted on Days 9.5 or 10 of gestation and cultured for 48 to 30h, respectively, in rat serum containing 0, 3, 6, 9 mg/ml of Ethanol (Eth); 0, 10, 20 g/ml of Acetaldehyde (Ach); 3 mg/ml Eth + 10 g/ml Ach. At the end of the culture period the embryos were evaluated for vitality, and scored. Some of them were also examined histologically. Embryos exposed to Eth from Day 9.5 showed a dose-related growth retardation associated with a high frequency of malformations (open neural tube, heart defects, branchial arch hypoplasia). The exposure of 9.5-day embryos to 20 g/ml Ach resulted in 100% embryolethality, whereas 10 g/ml induced growth retardation and teratogenic effects. When 10-day embryos were exposed to 3 mg/ml Eth or 10 l/ml Ach no effects were observed, but the highest levels of Eth produced a moderate growth retardation and morphologic defects. Exposure to 20 g/ml Ach induced hypoplasia of the first arch, but did not alter the score value. The histologic examination of these embryos revealed severe lesions at the level of the neuroepithelium and of the branchial mesenchyma. Similar effects were observed in embryos exposed simultaneously to 3 mg/ml Eth and 10 g/ml Ach. These results should make us reevaluate the role of Ach in the Eth-induced embryopathies. 
4295960|We studied the variation in the mitogenicity of the sera derived from any particular subject at different time points. Two sets of sera were taken at an interval of 3 wk from 12 healthy male conscripts, and the samples were tested with regard to their ability to support proliferation of cultured human aortic smooth muscle cells (HSMC). Sera from 12 individuals showed markedly different growth-stimulating effects. On the other hand, sera from any particular individual taken at different time points gave constantly the same result. This was evident when the sera from the two time points were tested fresh in separate experiments and when they were tested together in one experiment after storage of 4 to 5 mo. The growth-promoting effects of the sera did not correlate significantly with the concentration of certain measurable serum factors which are known to be mitogenic for arterial smooth muscle cells (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, growth hormone, insulin, or insulinlike growth factor-I). Our results indicate that the growth-promoting effect of human serum on cultured HSMC is a constant serum donor-dependent property. This implies that it is possible to make reliable comparisons between the growth-promoting effects of the sera derived from different subjects, and to measure the effects of treatments, e.g. medical or dietary, on the mitogenicity of the sera from any given individual.
4296324|We have transformed petunia by Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing genes for kanamycin resistance and beta-glucuronidase using isolated shoot apices from seedling tissue. Regeneration of transformed plants in this model system was rapid. The technique of shoot apex transformation is an alternative for use in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of dicotyledonous crop species for which a method of regeneration via protoplasts, leaf disks, or epidermal strips does not exist. This approach offers direct and rapid regeneration of plants and low risk of tissue-culture-induced genetic variation.
20171403| The hepatoblastoma cell line HepG2 has been a matter of many investigations; most of them include biochemical studies of lipoprotein and other hepatic protein metabolism. However, the accurate cellular features of these cells have not been emphasized. We studied the cellular histologic, histochemical, and ultrastructural characteristics of this cell line. In addition, we investigated by immunoenzymatic methods the cellular biosynthesis of several proteins: apolipoproteins-AI, -B, -D, and -E, albumin, alpha-fetoprotein, transferrin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, C-reactive protein, fibronectin, and collagens I, III and IV. The rates of accumulation, in the medium of HepG2 cells, of albumin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, transferrin, and alpha-fetoprotein were 13.2  1.9; 4.9  1.5; 3.2  0.4; and 10.7  1.7 g/10 cells/24 h, respectively. Our results show that HepG2 cells exhibited most cellular features of normal human hepatocytes. Bile canaliculi as well as Golgi apparatus complexes were particularly developed. Except for the C-reactive protein, HepG2 cells have all retained the ability to synthesize hepatic proteins but with some variable intensity from cell to cell. This hepatoblastoma cell line seems to represent a useful tool in the understanding of hepatic protein biosynthesis, particularly for the investigation on the secretory pathway of plasma proteins. 
4296794|Mesenchymal cell lines derived from fetal rat urogenital sinus organ cultures have been characterized to establish an in vitro system for addressing growth and differentiation regulatory factors involved in mesenchymal-epithelial interactions during prostate morphogenesis. A continuous cell line was developed and designated U4F. Immunocytochemical analysis showed vimentin intermediate filament content confirming a mesenchymal origin. Previous studies with urogenital sinus organ cultures have reported the expression of a negative growth activity, which is stimulatory to protein synthesis and secretion and alters phenotypic morphology of NBT-II bladder epithelial cells. Subconfluent and confluent U4F monolayers did not produce this growth inhibitory activity. Foci of stacked cells were observed 3 wk postconfluency, which evolved into multicellular spheroids. The negative growth activity was expressed in the conditioned medium coordinate with spheroid formation. Transplanted spheroids continued to express the growth inhibitory activity. Morphologic analysis of spheroids showed a cellular capsule and a core of extracellular matrix. A continuous cell strain (U4F1) with altered phenotypic properties, arose spontaneously from long-term U4F cultures. The U4F1 cell strain did not form spheroids, yet expressed the negative growth activity constitutively in monolayer culture. Analyses of physicochemical, immunological, and biological properties showed the activity is identical in conditioned media from urogenital sinus organ cultures, U4F spheroids, and U4F1 monolayers. Based on the combined properties, this activity cannot be ascribed to previously characterized negative growth factors. The establishment of this mesenchymal cell culture system will aid in the further identification of paracrine-acting growth and differentiation regulatory factors secreted by fetal mesenchyme.
4296846| The pathogenesis of retrovirus-induced erythroid aplasia in cats is unknown. In studies to define mechanisms of cytotoxicity associated with retroviral infections, bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMC) from healthy specific pathogen-free cats were co-cultured with uninfected feline embryonic fibroblasts (FEA cells) and FEA cells infected with feline leukemia virus (FeLV) of subgroup A (FEA-A) or subgroup C (FEA-C). Moderate to marked cytotoxicity (CPE) developed in co-cultures of BMMC and FEA-C cells on Days 5 to 7 of incubation but not in co-cultures of BMMC and FEA-A or BMMC and uninfected cells (FEA-CT). Cytotoxicity was associated with adherent cells of light density (1.056) from bone marrow and peripheral blood, which were positive for alpha naphthyl butyrate esterase activity. Stimulation of adherent cells with phorbol ester or addition of recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha (rhTNF-) caused similar CPE in FEA-CT cells. The TNF- concentrations in the culture supernatants of BMMC+FEA-C were higher than those of BMMC+FEA-A or BMMC+FEA-CT, and addition of anti-TNF antibodies to the cultures blocked the CPE. These data support the hypothesis that macrophages exposed to FeLV-C cause CPE in co-cultures of BMMC and FEA cells by a mechanism involving TNF-. It is suggested that TNF- may be involved in the suppression of hematopoiesis in cats which develop FeLV-C induced erythroid aplasia. 
4295988|A hybrid cell line (E-2) that secretes the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) has been prepared. The E-2 cell was the product of a fusion between primary mouse hepatocytes and a chemically transformed rat liver cell line (FRL), neither of which expresses AChE activity. The enzyme was determined to be AChE on the basis of its susceptibility to inhibition by BW284c51 but not by iso-OMPA, as well as its substrate specificity. Although the secreted enzyme was salt soluble and its activity not modified by the addition of the nonionic detergent, Triton X-100, the activity of the cellular enzyme (derived from homogenates of E-2 cells) was greatly enhanced in the presence of the detergent.
4295796| Invasion of chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) organ cultures by rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the highly oncogenic human adenovirus type 12 (3Y1/12-10 cells) was inhibited by several retinoids tested. The anti-invasive activity of the retinoids was dependent on retinoid concentration and continuous (4 d) exposure of the CAM. The 50% retinoid dose (dose effective in achieving a response in half of the organ cultures) that inhibited invasion was 0.85 g/ml of retinol pa Imita te, 0.39 g/ml of retinoic acid, or 0.16 g/ml of retinol acetate. This dose was of the same order of magnitude as that which induced CAM differentiation, and was three- to fourfold less than the dose that caused cytotoxic damage of CAM. In addition, the retinoids inhibited 3Y1/12-10 cell growth by approximately 40% at levels over 10-fold higher than those needed for anti-invasion activity. The findings suggest that the anti-invasive activity of retinoids was at least partly due to direct induction of cell differentiation of the CAM host tissue. 
20171489| Interlobular duct fragments from the pancreas of the rat were isolated by collagenase digestion and filtration, embedded in a matrix of rat-tail collagen, and cultured in a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's minimal essential and Ham's F12 media supplemented with cholera toxin (CT, 100 ng/ml) and epidermal growth factor (EGF, 10 ng/ml) in addition to supplements used previously, thereby improving the yield of ducts by a factor of two compared with previous resuts. The ducts were harvested by digestion of the collagen matrix with collagenase and were then dissociated by treatment with EDTA in divalent cation-free salt solution, followed by digestion with collagenase and hyaluronidase. The resulting tissue fragments were suspended in collagen and cultured as were the ducts. Numerous cysts appeared as a function of time and some of these enlarged dramatically. Some of the larger cysts exhibited secondary tubular processes extending into the surrounding collagen. The addition of bovine pituitary extract (BPE, 50 g/ml) doubled the number of cysts, whereas omission of serum or CT+EGF reduced the number. BPE or forskolin could substitute effectively for CT. Agents that stimulate (secretin) or inhibit (e.g., ouabain or acetazolamide) fluid-electrolyte secretion in vivo had no effect on the number or average diameter of the cysts. The cysts were 83 to 88% epithelial with the balance of the cells being fibroblastic in appearance. Some cysts consisted only of epithelium. The proliferative capacity of the cystic epithelium was shown by the presence of mitotic figures and by an autoradiographic labeling index of 22 to 30% after a 24-h exposure to [H]thymidine. The labeling index was reduced by the omission of CT+EGF. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the cysts exhibited morphologic features of duct epithelium in vivo, including apical microvilli, lateral interdigitations of the plasma membrane, and typical cytoplasmic organelles. 
20171572|Producing synthetic seed of carrot consists of coating in-vitro grown embryos with a synthetic seed coat such as Polyox WSR-N 750, drying under controlled conditions, and hardening to prevent precocious germination. Survival of such embryos declines over time. Similar procedures have also been used with celery. Somatic embryos have several advantages compared to conventional tissue culture which include proliferacy, singulation, and the development of bipolar structures. The factors which most limit the use of synthetic seeds are the inability to use such procedures with economically important genotypes, lack of understanding of the maturation of somatic embryos and poor conversion rates to greenhouse and/or field.
4296130|This report describes the development of a culture system for long-term growth and cloning of human fetal adrenocortical cells. Optimal conditions for stimulating clonal growth were determined by testing the efficacy of horse serum (HS), fetal bovine serum (FBS), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), fibronectin, and a combination of growth factors, UltroSer G, in stimulating growth from low density. Optimal conditons for clonal growth were achieved using fibronectin-coated dishes and DME/F12 medium with 10% FBS, 10% HS, 2% UltroSer G, and 100 ng/ml FGF or 100 pM EGF. Conditions for growth at clonal density were found to be optimal for growth of early passage, nonclonal cultures at higher densities. The improved growth conditions used for cloning were shown to allow continued long-term growth of nonclonal human adrenocortical cells without fibroblast overgrowth. All cells in cultures grown in HS, FBS, and UltroSer G had morphologic characteristics of adrenocortical cells, whereas cells grown in FBS only rapidly became overgrown with fibroblasts. Clonal and nonclonal early passage human adrenocortical cells had similar mitogenic responses to FGF and EGF. Whereas FGF, EGF, and UltroSer G showed similar stimulation of DNA synthesis and clonal growth in human adrenocortical cells and human adrenal gland fibroblasts, the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate stimulated growth only in adrenocortical cells and was strongly inhibitory to growth in fibroblasts. In both cell types, forskolin inhibited DNA synthesis. Human adrenocortical cell cultures were functional and synthesized cortisol, dehydroepiandrosterone, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. The improved growth conditions for clonal growth of human adrenocortical cells also provided optimal conditions for long-term growth of cultured rat adrenocortical cells and increased the cloning efficiency of cultured bovine adrenocortical cells.
4296161|Transferrin was identified as a major tissue-derived growth factor for MTW9/PL2 rat mammary tumor cells. Mitogenic activity was assayed by the ability to stimulate the increase in number of MTW9/PL2 cells over 4 d in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing only 15 mM HEPES, 2 mM glutamine, and
20171593| Using liposomes as the mediator of DNA transfer, we were successful in the transfection of human hepatocytes isolated from surgical samples with an E. coli -galactosidase gene (-gal). A comparison of transfection efficiency showed that of the four promoters used, cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter yielded higher transfection efficiencies than Rous sarcoma virus (RSV), Simian virus-40 (SV-40) and human alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) promoters. These studies represent the first report on the successful transfection of primary cultures of human hepatocytes. 
4296071|The comparative metabolic effects of fructose and glucose were determined in human fibroblast cultures. Cells were grown in four different media containing 5.5 and 27.5 mM of glucose and fructose, respectively. For these two hexoses, we compared their uptake, consumption, and conversion into
4296058|Epithelial cell cultures were prepared from normal human fetal kidney and established in long-term culture. The growth characteristics and production of keratin, and alkaline phosphatase (AP) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) activities were compared in a modified minimal essential medium (mMEM), D-valine-containing modified alpha-MEM (mALPHA) and L-valine mALPHA. The mean number of cumulative population doublings (CPDL) was significantly (P <0.001) enhanced with the L-valine mALPHA (40.8 CPDL) over that achievable in mMEM (14.2 CPDL) or D-valine mALPHA (18.3 CPDL) media. In all three media, greater than 95% of the cells in culture produced keratin throughout the life span of these cultures. Surface-associated fibronectin was absent in these cell cultures. AP and GGT activities increased as a function of subpassage and time in culture, with the greatest activity in the L-valine mALPHA. The expression of these renal cell-associated functions suggests that these cells in culture are proximal tubule epithelial cells. The conditions and procedures described in this paper can provide a human kidney epithelial cell culture system for studying human renal function, metabolism, cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, and transformation.
4295826|The survival of adult rat hepatocytes in monolayer culture was studied in the presence of different hormones (neurotensin, oxytocin, thyrotropin releasing hormone, luteinizing hormone releasing hormone, cholecalciferol, bradykinin, substance P, aldosterone, melanocyte stimulating hormone, 3,3',5-triiodo-1-thyronine, corticosterone, human growth hormone, glucagon, insulin, progesterone, testosterone, estradiol, and dexamethasone phosphate) or growth factors (fetal bovine serum). For this purpose trypan blue exclusion, lactate dehydrogenase, and DNA and protein content were measured at 24 and 72 h of culture. 10
4296641|A mammalian embryonic cell surface glycoprotein (ESGp), whose expression and biochemical structure seem to be developmentally regulated, has been isolated and characterized. The molecule expressed in two cell through morula stage mouse embryos has a molecular weight, by electrophoretic analyses, of 90 kDa. At the blastocyst stage, however, the molecule migrates as a broad, heterogeneous band ranging from 90 to 110 kDa. Evidence obtained from studies of embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells indicates that this band is actually a composite of three distinct molecules (molecular weight 90, 95, and 105 to 110 kDa), each of which is synthesized uniquely by one of the different cell types of the blastocyst: the embryonic ectoderm and visceral and parietal endoderms, respectively. A survey of various mouse tissues and cell lines has revealed that undifferentiated cells express the low molecular weight form (90 kDa) characteristic of embryonic ectoderm, whereas differentiated cells and adult tissues express the high molecular weight form (110 kDa) characteristic of parietal endoderm. Only the EC visceral endoderm cell analogues have been shown to express the intermediate molecule (95 kDa). In embryos, the antigen is uniformly distributed over the cell surface during early cleavage stages (two to eight cell); just before compaction, however, it seems to redistribute and becomes polarized at the outside exposed edges of blastomeres. In cultured EC cells, ESGp is found only in areas of cell-to-cell contact; free-standing surfaces of cells are negative for expression. It is possible, therefore, that ESGp may be involved in the intercellular adhesion of both EC cells and compacting embryos.
4296882|Heparin-binding fibroblast growth factors (HBGF) have been implicated in the regeneration of both parenchymal and nonparenchymal cells of the liver. The response to and phenotype of hepatocyte receptors for HBGF-1 (acidic fibroblast growth factor) and HBGF-2 (basic fibroblast growth factor) were compared to keratinocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells. HBGF-1 stimulated DNA synthesis in hepatocytes, keratinocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells whereas activity of HBGF-2 was limited to fibroblasts and endothelial cells. HBGF-2 antagonized the mitogenic activity of HBGF-1 for hepatocytes and keratinocytes. Hepatocytes and keratinocytes exhibited both high- and low-affinity, nonmatrix receptor sites for HBGF-1, but only low-affinity sites for HBGF-2. The mesenchymal cells displayed only high-affinity sites for both HBGF-1 and HBGF-2. Northern blot and immunochemical analysis revealed that the expression of HBGF receptor genes bek and flg are partitioned between normal hepatocytes and nonparenchymal cells, respectively. Expression of epithelial cell-specific, mesenchymal cell-derived HBGF-7 (keratinocyte growth factor) mRNA in regenerating liver tissue was undetectable relative to HBGF-1. The results support a multifunctional role of HBGF-1 acting through different receptor phenotypes in hepatocyte and nonparenchymal cells during liver regeneration.
4296513|Cells grown in vitro generally have a requirement for an exogenous source of lipid. This requirement is often met by the addition of serum, lipoproteins, or lipids complexed to albumin. To overcome the disadvantages of using lipoproteins or albumin for culturing cells in serum-free media, a method has been devised to provide necessary lipids. This report describes the preparation and use of protein-free lipid microemulsions suitable for use in tissue culture. The microemulsions are prepared from purified, synthetic lipids to produce a homogeneous, water-soluble, stable suspension that can be sterile-filtered. The best results were obtained using a sonicate of cholesterol oleate, dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine, dilinoleoyl phosphatidylcholine, dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol, cholesterol, sphingomyelin, alpha-tocopherol, alpha-tocopherol acetate, and Tween 80. Using Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells in a protein-free medium, cell growth was 222% vs. control (no microemulsion) in a 5-d assay. Inclusion of the microemulsion to protein-free media also increased the growth rate of murine hybridomas, H9 transformed T lymphoblasts, and human skin keratinocytes.
4295790|A method for in vitro cultivation of teratocytes from the egg parasitoid Telenomus heliothidis (Hymenoptera: Scelionidae) is described. Parasitoid eggs, from which teratocytes were derived, were collected from 24-h-old Heliothis virescens (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) eggs previously parasitized by T. heliothidis females. Optimal culture conditions, including species and concentration of serum, were determined experimentally. Thirty percent Manduca sexta hemolymph or 10% chicken serum in Hink's TNH-FH medium were found to generate the most satisfactory number of teratocytes per parasitoid larva. Teratocytes cultivated in vitro showed similar development and morphology to those produced in vivo. However, cultured teratocytes lived approximately 10 times longer than teratocytes in natural hosts and were not dependent upon the presence of the parasitoid larva for normal development.
4295722|Data of the intracellular electrolyte concentration of potassium and chloride in cultured muscle cells measured by x-ray analysis were compared by using the different activity coefficients with intracellular potassium and chloride activities measured with double-barrelled microelectrodes. By using an activity coefficient of 0.6, 95% of the potassium microelectrode measurements are in accordance with the x-ray analysis values, in spite of a scattering of the values. Membrane potential and intracellular potassium values are linearly related. x-ray analysis and ion-sensitive microelectrodes measured the cytoplasmic chloride in the same range. Taking into account known activity coefficients, an error of 25% must be assumed with the intracellular chloride measurements. However, x-ray analysis and ion-sensitive microelectrode investigations are reliable tools to study intracellular potassium and chloride changes, which play an important role in membrane characteristics.
4296797|We have previously shown that differentiation of embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells leads to both increased binding of FGF (fibroblast growth factor) and suppression of k-FGF expression. In the current study, we examined the expression of FGF receptors by EC cells, EC-derived differentiated cells and early mammalian embryos using the technique of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We determined that both mouse, F9, and human, NT2/D1, EC cells as well as their differentiated counterparts express transcripts for two forms of FGF receptors, bek (bacterially expressed kinase) and flg (fms-like gene). In addition, we determined that mouse blastocysts express flg transcripts. The presence of FGF receptor transcripts in early embryos and the previous finding of FGF-related activity in medium conditioned by mouse blastocysts argue that the FGF family plays important roles during early mammalian development.
4296410|The growth and differentiation of an established renal epithelial cell line,
20171472|Many of the morphologic and biochemical changes that occur during human fetal skin development have been described, yet there has been little experimental analysis of the processes that regulate the development of human fetal skin. This is due in part to difficulties in culturing human fetal epidermal keratinocytes. We have successfully cultured fetal keratinocytes in two different in vitro systems; in a serum-free keratinocyte growth medium (KGM) on tissue culture plastic and cocultured with dermal fibroblasts as spheroidal aggregates. To characterize these fetal keratinocytes in vitro we have assessed their ability to express several markers of epidermal differentiation. Human fetal keratinocytes grown on plastic in KGM stratify and express some of the components of the differentiated epidermis, such as involucrin and the high molecular weight keratins. However, these keratinocytes co-express keratins and vimentin and do not form a structured basement membrane. More characteristics of fetal skin are preserved in mixed aggregates of epidermal keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts, including epidermal stratification, synthesis of basement membrane components, tissue-specific expression of intermediate filaments, involucrin, and expression of high molecular weight keratins. The maintenance of human fetal epidermal keratinocytes in these two in vitro systems and their ability to express many differentiated characteristics suggests that these cultures will be valuable for studies of the molecular mechanisms that regulate the regionally specific differentiation of the human fetal epidermis.
4296079| HeLa cell variants capable of multiplying in the presence of sodium butyrate were used to study the relationship of cell cycle position to human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) production and regulation of the genes encoding hCG - and -subunits. The butyrate-resistant variants exhibit several different stable phenotypes. In wild-type HeLa cells, butyrate arrests cell division and modulates synthesis of - and -subunits of glycoprotein hormones by coordinately regulating steady-state levels of their respective mRNAs. Because the variant cell lines replicate, in addition to producing hCG subunits in the presence of butyrate, cell cycle arrest does not seem to be a requirement for expression of glycoprotein hormone genes. Studies of histone modification suggest that neither hyperacetylation of histones H3 and H4 nor dephosphorylation of histones H1 and H2A mediates inhibition of cell replication. In the variants, -subunit and hCG levels are independently regulated, as a consequence of independent regulation of - and -hCG mRNA levels. Long-term effects of butyrate include derepression of some genes (hCG in the variant AO) and repression of others (hCG in variant AO). Moreover, hormone production correlates with the steady-state levels of mRNA for each of the subunits, suggesting that regulation occurs before translation. These findings indicate that the butyrate-resistant variant cell lines are valuable for studies of the molecular mechanisms involved in regulation of expression of ectopic hormones. 
4296404|Rings of rat aorta cultured in Matrigel, a reconstituted gel composed of basement membrane molecules, gave rise to three-dimensional networks composed of solid cellular cords and occasional microvessels with slitlike lumina. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies showed that the solid cords were composed of endothelial sprouts surrounded by nonendothelial mesenchymal cells. The angiogenic response of the aortic rings in Matrigel was compared to that obtained in interstitial collagen, fibrin, or plasma clot. Morphometric analysis demonstrated that the mean luminal area of the microvascular sprouts and channels was significantly smaller in Matrigel than in collagen, fibrin, or plasma clot. The percentage of patent microvessels in Matrigel was also markedly reduced. Autoradiographic studies of
20171550|In the process of wound healing keratinocytes and fibroblasts play an important role, keratinocytes in the re-epithelization process and fibroblasts in the process of wound contraction. We have studied the role of human keratinocytes and fibroblasts in the rearrangement of collagen in a collagen lattice model system. Our results revealed that keratinocytes as well as fibroblasts rearrange the collagen lattice; this occurs in a cell number and collagen concentration dependent manner. The optimal gel contraction is obtained in the presence of keratinocytes on the top of and of fibroblasts in the collagen lattice, the situation most closely approaching the in vivo situation. Between the two types of cells, differences in morphologic behavior were observed: when incorporated into the gel the keratinocytes retained their spherical shape throughout the whole culture period, but fibroblasts became elongated and formed extensions. Our data suggest that not only fibroblasts but also keratinocytes may be involved in the process of wound contraction.
4296238|A human cell line has been established from a renal adenocarcinoma rib metastasis of a 58-y-old male. This cell line has been maintained in continuous culture for 20 mo. through more than 50 passages. It displays simultaneous expression of the intermediate filaments cytokeratin and vimentin. Flow cytometric analysis of DNA content reveals a major hyperdiploid population.
20171566| Neurons from brains of chick embryos and pond snails (Lymnaea stagnalis) were cultured for 3 to 4 d in the presence of no toxins, inorganic lead (PbCl), or organic lead (triethyl lead chloride). In chick neurons, inorganic lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 270 M total lead, approximately 70 nM free Pb) but did not reduce the number of neurites per cell or the mean neurite length. Triethyl lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 0.24 M) and the mean neurite length (extrapolated IC = 3.6 M) but did not reduce the number of neurites per cell. In Lymnaea neurons, inorganic lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 13 M total lead; approximately 10 nM free Pb). Triethyl lead reduced the percentage of cells that grew neurites (IC = 0.4 M) and exerted significant toxicity at 0.2 M. The two forms of lead affected neurite growth in qualitatively different ways, which suggests that their mechanisms of action are different. 
20171450|We have used the cholesterol auxotrophy of NS-1 mouse myeloma cells as the basis for selecting NS-1 hybridomas. The outgrowth of nascent NS-1 hybridomas in cholesterol-free serum-free medium was 3- to 9-fold more efficient than that in HAT medium and resulted in 3- to 13-times as many antigen-reactive hybridoma wells. This method of hybridoma selection can be applied with any sterol-dependent parent cell line. Hybridomas established under serum-free culture conditions were growth inhibited by fetal calf serum.
4295949| We have recently shown that extensive proliferation of liver parenchymal cells takes place in adult male Xenopus frogs in response to estradiol-17, which also induces synthesis and secretion of vitellogenin, the precursor of yolk proteins. We demonstrate here that liver parenchymal cells from abult male animals can be maintained for several weeks in a defined tissue culture medium containing added insulin, dexamethasone, and triiodothyronine. Under these conditions the cells do not divide, but can synthesize DNA. Maximum DNA synthesis occurs in cells that have achieved monolayer morphology under low plating densities. Estradiol-17 causes a dose-dependent increase in the number of cells synthesizing DNA, as well as inducing synthesis of vitellogenin. Estrogen-dependent, but not background, DNA synthesis is inhibited by the antiestrogen tamoxifen. These results imply that estradiol-17 acts directly on liver cells to initiate DNA replication, probably by interaction with a receptor protein and induction of specific gene transcription. 
4295950|The levels of cyclic GMP (cGMP) and cyclic AMP (cAMP) were assayed, using radioimmunoassay, in newt blastemata cultured with and without insulin. Our observations show that insulin significantly increases the levels of cGMP over the control values, whereas the levels of cAMP remain unaltered. Our in vitro studies also show that
4296480|We have developed a procedure to explant fibroblasts from the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and the medial collateral ligament (MCL) of the rabbit knee, and have optimized conditions for maintaining them in culture. Maximal growth for both ACL and MCL cells was obtained with Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 15% fetal bovine serum and 250 M ascorbate. ACL and MCL fibroblasts displayed intrinsic differences in their responses to changes in culture parameters. Specifically, they displayed different growth responses when plated at different densities and responded to RPMI 1640 medium in very different ways. There were also biochemical differences between the cell types. Both cell types produced similar amounts of collagen in culture, but the ratio of type I to type III, the major collagen subtypes produced by these cells, were different. ACL fibroblasts produced 86.7% type I and 13.3% type III, and MCL fibroblasts produced 71.1% type I and 28.9% type III. In addition, total protein produced by ACL fibroblasts was higher than that produced by MCL cells. This confirms the suggestions of previous researchers that such differences might exist.
4296670|An improved method for obtaining optimal mitogenic responses in peripheral blood lymphocytes has been devised by utilizing autologous or homologous rainbow trout plasma. The use of 10% plasma in culture results in up to a 60-fold increase in the proliferative potential of the peripheral blood lymphocyte response to lipopolysaccharide when compared to the more routinely used fetal bovine serum. Furthermore, it has been observed that lymphocytes which were unresponsive to in vitro mitogenic challenge when cultured in fetal bovine serum, responded well when cultured in the presence of trout plasma. Also in contrast to previous mitogen studies where maximal stimulation was reported to occur on Day 4-5 of culture, the stimulatory effects of lipopolysaccharide were greatest on Day 10 when plasma was employed. Together these data suggest that former conditions of lymphocyte cell culture, employing only fetal bovine serum, not only fail to provide the optimal conditions for cell growth, but in many cases the essential conditions. However, these requirements are met by supplementation with trout plasma, which seems to contain heat-stable factors responsible for the enhanced mitogenic responsiveness.
4296033|Cells from a continuous human line and freshly isolated cells from old adult mice heterozygous at the Mod-1 locus were fused in the presence of polyethylene glycol (PEG). The production of hybrid cells, as a function of PEG concentration in the presence and absence of phytohemagglutinin (PHA), was measured by cell survival and proliferation on selective medium. The incorporation of PHA into the fusion mixture allowed cell fusion to take place at nontoxic concentrations of PEG. PHA increased the frequency of cell fusion and increased the production of viable hybrid cells from 138- to over 2800-fold depending on cell type. The results suggest that the procedure may have broad application in promoting the fusion of cells sensitive to PEG. Clones were analyzed for isozymes of malic enzyme and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. The expression of the gene encoding X-linked mouse glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase confirmed that the cells were hybrids. These cells lost other mouse isozymes rapidly. In those clones in which the mouse malic enzyme gene was expressed, the product of
4296205|Normal rat prostate epithelial cell growth requires both epidermal growth factor and heparin-binding growth factor/prostatropin. In contrast, epithelial cells derived from the transplantable Dunning R3327H rat tumor require either epidermal growth factor or heparin-binding growth factor/prostatropin. Transforming growth factor type beta inhibited normal epithelial cell growth. Transforming growth factor beta inhibited epidermal growth factor-dependent growth of tumor epithelial cells, independent of epidermal growth factor concentrations. Transforming growth factor beta increased the effective dose of heparin-binding growth factor type 1 required to support tumor epithelial cell growth by 10-fold but saturating levels of heparin-binding growth factor type 1 (290 pM) completely attenuated the inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta. These results suggest that prostate tumor epithelial cells may escape the inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta as a consequence of alteration of the concurrent requirement for both epidermal growth factor (or homologues) and heparin-binding growth factors.
4296112|A modified protoplast isolation technique, applicable to a range of dihaploid Solanum tuberosum genotypes, has been developed. A combination of high calcium and high pH was used to fuse mesophyl protoplasts of dihaploid S. tuberosum (PDH40) and the diploid wild species S. brevidens. Large numbers of colonies were obtained after fusion and putative hybrids selected on the basis of phenotype from regenerated shoots. From these, 11 somatic hybrid plants have been identified by their isoenzyme patterns and morphologic characteristics. Four of these hybrids had the expected chromosome number of 48. The approach of mass culture after fusion followed by selection of hybrids from regenerated shoots and the application of somatic hybridization to potato breeding are discussed.
4296218|A serum-free system has been developed for selective growth and long-term culture of rat thymic epithelial cells. The growth media is a modification of McKeehan's WAJC 404, plus insulin, cholera toxin, dexamethasone, and epidermal growth factor. Cultures have been continuously passaged and maintained for over 6 mo., and a cloned cell line, TEA3A1, has been established. These cells are epithelial, judging by morphology and ultrastructure, and are positive for A2B5 and thymosin 
4295923|This study has defined a method for preparation and monolayer culture of cells from chorion laeve. Cell number and cell protein content are stable over 7 d in culture. The cells will divide in response to epidermal growth factor in the presence of a supplemented, enriched medium and a collagen matrix, but they lose steroidogenic activity over time in culture. This culture system can be used as the starting point for the development of a chemically defined hormone-supplemented, serum-free culture system for studies of chorion cell differentiation and fetal membrane cell interactions.
4296040|The long-lived keratinocyte line, NM 1, was isolated from the epidermis of a pool of foreskins obtained from apparently normal neonates at the time of circumcision. Cultures were initiated in Dulbecco's minimal essential medium containing 20% fetal bovine serum,
20171499| High numbers of embryos are difficult to obtain in liquid cultures of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.) because discrete cell aggregates, produced through calli fragmentation, do not support embryo growth. In an effort to demonstrate that embryo development is possible from discrete cell aggregates, we compared embryo formation from cell aggregates 250-355 m in diameter cultured either in suspension in liquid medium, on agar solidified medium, or immobilized on alginate beads floated in liquid medium. Embryos were initiated but remained arrested in their globular stage on cell aggregates cultured in suspension. Embryos developed to the torpedo stage from cell aggregates cultured on solidified medium and from cell aggregates anchored on alginate beads. Thus, embryos continued to develop beyond the globular stage when a structural polarity, which led probably to the establishment of a physiological polarity, was created. The production of sweet potato embryos in liquid culture can be improved by using alginate beads or culture conditions and protocols leading to the release during calli fragmentation of polarized individual cell aggregates. 
20171361|Parenchymal organoidal structures that were obtained from collagenase digestion of reduction mammoplasty specimens of apparently normal human breasts have been grown in short-term primary cultures, either on plastic or on floating gels of polymerized rat-tail collagen. Three morphologically distinct major cell types are readily observed in both systems: cuboidal cells, which occupy apical positions on collagen gels; larger, epithelioid, or basal cells on gels; and elongated cells which penetrate into the gel. In addition, a fourth cell type, that of a large, flat cell, is observed less readily by phase contrast microscopy on the surface of cultures grown on plastic. Immunofluorescent and immunocytochemical staining of cultures on plastic or histologic sections of cultures on gels have been undertaken with antisera and other histochemical reagents that stain the different parenchymal cell types in vivo. Thus antisera to epithelial membrane antigen(s), monoclonal antibodies (MABs) to the defatted mammary milk fat globule membrane, peanut lectin, and keratin MAB LE61, which preferentially stain the epithelial cells of ducts in vivo, also stain the cuboidal/apical cells in vitro. The large, flat cells are stained intensely by the first three reagents but not by the last one. Antisera to collagen IV, laminin, fibronectin, actin, keratin MAB LP34, MABs to the common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen, and MAB LICR-LON-23.10, which showed enhanced staining for the ductal myoepithelial cells in vivo, also stain the epithelioid/elongated cells in vitro. However, the effect of the last four reagents is reduced considerably in most elongated cells, and MAB LP34 stains the large, flat cells intensely. Heterogeneous cells of intermediate morphologies and staining patterns between the cuboidal/flat cells and large epithelioid cells have also been identified. The results suggest that the cuboidal cells and large, flat cells are related to mammary epithelial cells, whereas the large epithelioid/elongated cells have some characteristics of myoepithelial cells, and that intermediate forms may exist in culture between the two parenchymal cell types.
4296671|Amiprilose hydrochloride has been shown to inhibit the proliferation of a number of hyperproliferative cell types including psoriatic skin cells. In the present study, the effects of amiprilose hydrochloride on human tissue equivalents were examined by incubating a) dermal equivalents, b) skin equivalents in the process of epidermalization, and c) mature skin equivalents, with varying concentrations of the drug. In all three models amiprilose hydrochloride concentrations of 0.1% (wt/vol) and lower were not toxic to fibroblasts and keratinocytes and did not interfere with the differentiation of the skin equivalent and the developing skin equivalent. When tested in dermal equivalents, concentrations of amiprilose hydrochloride between 0.1 and 0.5% resulted in changes in fibroblast morphology with development of large intracellular vacuoles, and concentrations greater than 5% were toxic. In mature skin equivalents, in addition to changes in fibroblast morphology, amiprilose hydrochloride in concentrations of 1 to 10% affected the epidermis. When 0.5% amiprilose hydrochloride was present in the developing skin equivalent during differentiation, the epidermal keratinocytes were also affected. Thus the morphology of basal keratinocytes was modified, the differentiation was incomplete, and the dermal-epidermal attachment was compromised. These studies suggest the possibility of an extracellular mechanism of action of amiprilose hydrochloride and delineate acceptable dosage ranges for the potential drug.
4296719|Fluorescence microscopy performed on living cells is a valuable technique for elucidating patterns of cell growth in vitro over artificial biomaterials such as vascular grafts, and for in vivo studies such as identification and treatment of atherosclerotic plaques. Two fluorescent dyes of particular value for vital fluorescence studies are Rhodamine-123 and 3,3'-dioctadecylindocarbocyanine-labeled low density lipoprotein (Dil-LDL). We examined the toxicity of these two dyes and of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), a solvent used in Rhodamine-123 studies, on the growth of
20171592|The face develops from small buds of tissue positioned around the primitive mouth. The chondrogenic and myogenic cell populations contained within these facial primordia in mouse embryos have been investigated in short-term micromass culture. Chondrogenesis occurred in frontonasal mass mesenchyme from E11-E13 embryos, in maxillary mesenchyme from E12.5 embryos and was absent in mandibular mesenchyme. Myogenesis was greatest in mandibular mesenchyme, moderate in maxillary mesenchyme and low in the frontonasal mass. When compared with chick embryos the mouse facial primordia have lower chondrogenic potential, which in the case of the frontonasal mass may be related to the relative outgrowth of the primordia in the two species. Chondrogenesis in the mouse mandibular mesenchyme may be affected by the presence of a large population of odontogenic mesenchyme. The behavior of myogenic cell populations is related to the pattern of the musculature of the face, as the mandible contains the most muscle, the maxilla some, and the frontonasal mass none. However, the presence of myoblasts in early mesenchyme of all primordia may indicate that, as with chick, facial primordia are initially seeded with muscle cells and that the size of the cell population is subsequently controlled according to the development of the musculature within the primordia.
4296676|Platelet-derived growth factor (BB dimer; PDGF-BB) stimulates a mitogenic response in A-10 vascular smooth muscle cells. In addition, PDGF-BB stimulates phospholipase D activity against phosphatidylcholine in A-10 cells. This response was observed as a rapid metabolism of phosphatidylcholine to phosphatidate and choline; a subsequent metabolism generates sustained levels of diacylglycerol. The accumulation of phosphatidylethanol, a transphosphatidylation product of phospholipase D, was obvious in PDGF-treated cells. PDGF-BB also stimulates a chemotactic response in A-10 cells. The concentrations of PDGF-BB required to stimulate mitogenesis, phospholipase D activity and chemotaxis are similar. This finding shows that PDGF induces a variety of cellular responses and suggests that these responses may share common metabolic pathways. That conception was tested by investigating the activity of the different PDGF dimers. PDGF-AA had little or no activity in A-10 cells for any of the responses measured. PDGF-AB and PDGF-BB were equally potent in stimulating mitogenic responses. However, the AB heterodimer was only half as active as PDGF-BB with respect to activation of phospholipase D and chemotactic responses. These results demonstrate that PDGF stimulates phospholipase D in vascular smooth muscle cells. In addition, the data indicate that different PDGF dimers can transduce varying signals and suggest a link between the mechanisms by which PDGF-BB activates phospholipase D and the chemotactic response.
4295854|The ability of cyclic AMP-elevating agents to induce normal differentiation has been investigated in retinoid-deficient hamster tracheal epithelium in organ culture. Dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP) and other cAMP-regulating agents alone caused disappearance of keratin and regeneration of normal mucociliary epithelium in retinoid-deficient cultures. Incubation of retinoid-deficient cultures with dbcAMP, isoproterenol, and cholera toxin (CT) (without addition of exogenous retinoid) reversed keratinization in a dose-dependent manner. The ED
4296228|The structural and functional properties of the endothelium vary in relation to anatomic site and position along the vascular tree. Cultures of endothelial cells have been obtained so far from large arteries, large veins and capillaries, but not from venules. We now report techniques for culturing not only rat arterial and venous endothelium, but also a special method for obtaining and culturing venular endothelium. The technique is based on the principle of "vascular labeling," whereby an insoluble pigment can be permanently deposited in the wall of the venules, making them easily visible by light microscopy. The venules of a rat cremaster muscle are labeled with a local injection of histamine followed by Monastral blue B intravenously (i.V.); 24 hours later selected venules are isolated by microdissection and either enzymatically dispersed or placed directly into tissue culture wells. The wells are coated with fibronectin and laminin and supplemented with DMEM, 20% fetal calf serum, and endothelial cell growth factor. Polygonal and spindly endothelial cells begin as clusters, grow in sheets, and sometimes form tubes. The cells stain variably for Factor VIII-related antigen, Ulex Europeus I lectin, and non-muscle specific actin. They synthesize angiotensin-converting enzyme, but do not metabolize acetylated LDL. Ultrastructurally, they display pinocytic vesicles, microtendons, and tight junctions, but not Weibel-Palade bodies. We believe that this method will be important for studying the pathophysiology of venules, which are the preferential target of inflammatory mediators and the typical site of inflammatory cell diapedesis.
4295952| A new established cell line, 79f7Dv3g, of Drosophila virilis consisting initially of male and female cells and represented now, after 6 yr of cultivation, only by male cells is described. The population doubling time is 36 h at 25 C. The cell culture is also able to grow in serum-free media for an indefinite time without special selection and has a population doubling time of 2 d. 
4295756|A cell line, designated as OS-RC-2, has been established from a renal cell carcinoma in a 52-yr-old Japanese male patient and maintained for 23 mo. through 60 in vitro passages. The OS-RC-2 formed monolayers of polygonal epithelial cells and lacked contact inhibition. Doubling time of cells was about 60 h at the 30th passage. Electron microscopic findings indicated numerous long microvilli on the cell surface and many glycogen granules in the cytoplasm of this cell line, which are characteristic structures of renal cell carcinoma. Chromosomal analysis revealed that a small portion of this cell line had a hypodiploid modal number of 40 and a large portion had a hypotetraploid modal number of 75. The characteristics of the karyotype were one detected marker chromosome and the translocation between the Chromosomes 2 and 13. Cell line OS-RC-2 was serially transplantable into nude mice, and histopathological findings of heterotransplanted tumor showed a close similarity to those of the original tumor. Histocompatibility antigens of OS-RC-2 were HLA-A9, Bw52, which were identical to those of the peripheral blood lymphocytes of the patient.
4296233|Human microvascular endothelial cells (HMVEC) from adult adipose tissue were cultured in MCDB 131 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Under these conditions, HMVEC from seven different donors had finite proliferative life spans ranging from 14.5 to 23.5 population doublings (PD), with a mean life span of 19 PD. Addition of 10% conditioned medium from activated human leukocyte cultures (BM Condimed[REGESTERERED TRADE MARK SIZNE]) extended the life span of HMVEC to 31 to 41 PD, with a mean life span of 37 PD. At the end of lifespan, HMVEC cultures both with and without BM Condimed had very low labeling indices (0 to 5% [
4295947| Methods are described for the short-term culture (48 to 56 h) of lung, liver, and kidney cells from C57B1/6 mice. With these techniques, mice can be exposed in vivo to test compounds and the cells grown on cover glasses in the presence of 5-bromo-2' -deoxyuridine (BrdUrd) (5 M) for analysis of sister chromatid exchange (SCE) and cell cycle kinetics. Mice exposed to vinyl carbamate (VC) ((10 to 60 mg/kg) by i.p. injection were used in the initial examination of this system. Cultured lung and kidney cells from exposed animals (60 mg/kg) exhibited significant increases in SCE frequencies (approximately 3 to 5 times baseline); however, liver cells were much less responsive and showed less than a twofold increase over baseline SCE levels. Lung cultures initiated as long as 320 h after VC exposure (60 mg/kg) revealed a persistence of lesions leading to the formation of SCEs in vitro. This methodology permits analysis of cytogenetic damage in organs with very low mitotic activity after in vivo exposure to known or suspected genotoxicants. 
4295781|The intermediate filaments of most epithelial cells in vivo consist solely of cytokeratins. Using monoclonal antibodies to vimentin or keratin, we have examined the expression of vimentin in homologous specimens of frozen tissue sections and primary cultures of normal human mammary epithelium. In frozen sections, only epithelial cells reacted with the antikeratin antibody, whereas antivimentin reactivity was associated with stromal cells. All epithelial cultures were positive for cytokeratin and in addition coexpressed vimentin as strongly as cultured fibroblasts and as early as the 4th d after initiation of the culture. Two-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis of cytoskeletal preparations of secondary cultures of normal mammary epithelium have also demonstrated the appearance of a moiety identical to the vimentin found in cultured fibroblasts. Our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that vimentin expression is induced, possibly as a result of changes in cell shape or growth rate, when cells are freed from three-dimensional restrictions imposed by the tissue of origin.
4296132| Heat inactivation (56 C for 40 min) of bovine calf serum was shown to diminish its capacity to promote the attachment of cells to plastic or glass surfaces. This effect was not observed in stationary cultures (culture dishes) but became manifest under conditions in which the cells were subjected to a small amount of liquid shear force, i.e. by growing cells in roller bottles or culture tubes. Of four cell lines tested on bovine calf serum (SV-BHK, BALB-3T3, CV-1, and FS-4) SV-BHK and CV-1 cells showed the greatest sensitivity to loss of attachment-promoting activity. Fetal bovine serum also seemed to be affected by heat inactivation but to a lesser degree than bovine calf serum. Treatment of vessel surfaces with either unheated calf serum or specific attachment factors (gelatin, poly-D-lysine, and fibronectin) greatly increased cell attachment in the presence of heat inactivated serum. Heat inactivation did not seem to affect the ability of cells to grow after attachment. Of the four cell lines tested, the normal human fibroblast line (FS-4) was shown to be most effective at conditioning medium and restoring its capacity to promote the attachment of all four cell lines. 
4296267|Protoplasts were isolated from seedling hypocotyls of soybean (Glycine max), and cultured in both liquid and agarose-solidified, modified K8P medium. Nuclear staining revealed that only 2% of protoplasts lacked a nucleus, 93% contained a single nucleus, and 5% contained more than one. Maximum protoplast yields and subsequent division frequencies, in liquid medium, were obtained from 5 days-old seedlings. Maximum division frequencies (54%) were obtained from hypocotyl protoplasts plated at a density of
20171483|Plants have been regenerated from nodular, green callus derived from cotyledon, petiole and leaf lamina explants of G. argyrea, a perennial relative of the soybean (G. max). The degree of response obtained was governed primarily by the genotype used, accession G1626 proving the most responsive. Shoots were also recovered from about 6.0% of cotyledon protoplasts of this genotype. The implications of these results are discussed in relation to genetic manipulations using this species.
4296163|A total of 24 clones (HZ 1075/UND-A through X) were initially isolated by dilution plating from the established IPLB-HZ 1075 cell line. Many of the isolates with highly vacuolated cytoplasms eventually died during subculturing. The cloned cell strains differed in their predominant morphology, cell doubling times, and relative ability to support replication of the singly encapsulated nuclear polyhedrosis virus of Heliothis zea (HzSNPV). The origin of the cloned cell strains was confirmed by comparing their isozyme profiles with those of the parental IPLB-HZ 1075 cell line and H. zea larvae using stains for fumerate hydratase, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and malic dehydrogenase (MDH). One dipteran and several lepidopteran cell lines maintained in our lab were also separable using stains for LDH and MDH.
20171497| A serum-free, hormone-supplemented medium containing insulin, transferrin, and triiodothyronine (ITT medium), able to support differentiation of rat adipose precursor cells, has been used to study the regulation of the development of adipocytes in the rabbit. Adipose conversion was assessed by the appearance of glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. Stromal-vascular cells from rabbit perirenal adipose tissue differentiated to a very low extent or not at all in ITT medium. Supplementation of ITT medium with growth hormone or fibroblast growth factor did not increase the proportion of differentiated cells. In contrast, rabbit stromal-vascular cells were able to differentiate in ITT medium supplemented with glucocorticoids (dexamethasone, corticosterone) whereas sex steroids (-estradiol, testosterone, progesterone) did not affect the differentiation process. In the presence of both dexamethasone and insulin, 20 to 50% of rabbit stromal-vascular cells differentiated into adipocytes within 2 wk of culture. The stimulatory actions of dexamethasone or insulin were dose-dependent. Insulin-like growth Factor-I (IGF-I), did not replace insulin under our culture conditions and had only a slight effect when added along with dexamethasone (100 nM) and insulin (1.7 nM). The results suggest that glucocorticoids, in association with insulin, may play an important role in the development of adipocytes from rabbit precursor cells. 
20171373| A new method has been developed to count cells "in situ", based on a fluorogenic enzyme assay that measures the activity of alkaline phosphatase. Increasing cell number was shown to correlate closely with alkaline phosphatase activity and this relationship did not change with time in culture. The alkaline phosphatase assay (ALP assay) was able to estimate relative cell numbers over a range from about 10 to 5  10 for many cell types, including Hep-2, a derivative of HeLa, several human colorectal cell lines SW1222, SW837, LS174T and HT29, a normal human diploid cell strain MRC5 and a rodent line NIH-3T3. The ALP assay is rapid and efficient, making it a useful method for studying growth assays. 
4296118| Cecum from chickens, 4 wk old, can best be maintained for 24 h in a serum-free organ culture system using Trowell T8 medium agar sheet at 25 C. As determined by light microscopy as well as scanning and transmission electron microscopy, mucosal architecture involving classic ultrastructure of chicken cecal mucosa was preserved. Protein content of cecal explants did not change up to 48 h of culture. DNA content of cecal explants did not change up to 24 h of culture but decreased significantly to two-thirds of control in 48 h of culture. Based on the morphologic and physiologic findings, it became evident that this organ culture system using Trowell T8 medium at 25 C can be successfully used as an in vitro experimental model for as long as 24 h. The organ culture system could be a useful tool, from the structural integrity of ceca observed in this study, in investigating mucosal function and mucosal response to drugs, carcinogens, trophic factors, and pathogens. 
4296253|Some hybridoma clones made by fusion of a human lymphoblastoid cell line, HO323 with human B lymphocytes, secreted not only IgA but also IgM-like immunoglobulin molecules. The IgM-like immunoglobulin had a molecular size of 900 K which corresponded to that of IgM. Immunochemical analyses revealed that the IgM-like immunoglobulin contained two monomeric IgA and three monomeric IgM molecules. In the IgA moieties, half of original light chains were replaced with x chains derived from the IgM, and vice versa.
4296724|Pyrroline 5-carboxylate, an intermediate of amino acid metabolism, is released into medium by cultured normal human fibroblasts. With cells made quiescent by serum starvation, the addition of 10% fetal bovine serum augmented the release of pyrroline 5-carboxylate into medium by 2.5-fold. Although platelet-derived growth factor was without effect, both insulin and insulinlike growth factor-1 nearly reproduced the serum effect. The dose-dependence of insulin and insulinlike growth factor 1 effects suggested their mediation by their own respective receptors. Although the mechanism for the stimulatory effect remains unknown, these effects of insulin and insulinlike growth factor 1 on pyrroline 5-carboxylate suggest hormonal regulation of pyrroline 5-carboxylate release.
20171553| The 5-AMPase activity of the ectoenzyme 5-nucleotidase has been measured in a variety of cell lines, using intact cells. Human cell types showed two orders of magnitude higher enzyme activity than mouse cell lines. The ectoenzyme is inhibited by adenosine 5-(,-methylene) diphosphate and Concanavalin A. A different extent of 5-nucleotidase lectin inhibition was observed in the studied cell lines, suggesting that the corresponding ectoenzymes are glycoproteins with a different type or degree, or both, of glycosylation. The 5-nucleotidase activity increased during subculture and decreased after cell transformation. Generally, the 5-nucleotidase activity was two- to five-fold higher in monolayer than in suspension cell culture. A relation between cell growth and 5-AMPase activity was also observed. Enzyme activity increased at the end of the lag phase (glioblastoma cells) or during the exponential phase (the other two cell lines). After confluence, the activity decreased to the initial or even lower range of activity. Observed activity variations with cell proliferation correlate with modifications of 5-AMPase activity during subculture. 
20171551|The colony-forming efficiency of rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cells was determined in serum-free media containing different types of commercially available bovine serum albumin (BSA): crude fraction V, essentially globulin-free, essentially fatty-acid-free, and essentially globulin- and fatty-acid-free BSA. RTE cells exhibited a concentration-dependent increase in colony-forming efficiency in response to crude fraction V BSA. Similar results were obtained using essentially globulin-free BSA. However, deletion of cholera toxin from the medium resulted in a decrease in the colony-forming efficiency for cells plated in high concentrations (&gt;2 mg/ml) of globulin-free, but not one type of fraction V, BSA. Essentially fatty-acid-free or essentially fatty-acid- and globulin-free BSA stimulated RTE cell colony formation at low concentrations (less than 2.5 to 5 mg BSA/ml) but resulted in concentration-dependent decreases in colony-forming efficiency at higher concentrations. The response of cells to these BSAs was not dependent on cholera toxin. Finally, commercially available fraction V BSA prepared by heat shock, dialysis, charcoal treatment, and deionization was stimulatory at low concentrations but inhibitory at high concentrations. These data suggest that impure preparations of BSA can, under different conditions, stimulate or inhibit cell proliferation and that the expression of these activities is affected by the method of BSA preparation, the concentration of BSA used, and, in some cases, by the presence or absence of cholera toxin.
4296533|Suspensions of renal proximal tubules (RPT) are the in vitro model for many biochemical and physiologic investigations. Inasmuch as there are numerous procedures for tubule isolation and the more commonly used enzymatic procedures may disrupt the basement membrane, there is a need for information comparing the influence of various isolation methods on RPT viability and function in long-term suspension. Rabbit RPT isolated a) enzymatically (ENZ) by in vitro collagenase digestion and Percoll size and density purification, and b) mechanically (MECH) by in vitro iron oxide perfusion and purification by sieving and magnetic removal of glomeruli were compared for viability, morphology, and functional stability during long-term suspension. RPT isolated by ENZ and MECH methods had excellent viability (< 15% lactate dehydrogenase release), limited lipid peroxidation ($<0.2 nmol MDA \cdot mg protein^{-1}$), and stable nystatin-stimulated oxygen consumption (QO
4296658| A method to culture rat cerebral microvascular endothelial cells (RCMECs) was developed and adapted to concurrently obtain cultures of rat aortic endothelial cells (RAECs) without subculturing, cloning, or "weeding." The attachment and growth requirements of endothelial cell clusters from isolated brain microvessels were first evaluated. RCMECs required fetal bovine serum to attach efficiently. Attachment and growth also depended on the matrix provided (fibronectin  laminin  gelatin > poly-D-lysine  Matrigel > hyaluronic acid  plastic) and the presence of endothelial cell growth supplement and heparin in the growth medium. Non-endothelial cells are removed by allowing these cells to attach to a matrix that RCMECs attach to poorly (e.g., poly-D-lysine) and then transferring isolated endothelial cell clusters to fibronectin-coated dishes. These cell cultures, labeled with 1,1'-dioctadecy1-3,3,3,3'-tetramethyl-indocarboxyamine perchlorate (DiI-Ac-LDL) and analyzed using flow cytometry, were 97.7  2.6% (n = 6) pure. By excluding those portions designed to isolate brain microvessels, the method was adapted to obtain RAEC cultures. RAECs do not isolate as clusters and have different morphology in culture, but respond similarly to matrices and growth medium supplements. RCMECs and RAECs have Factor VIII antigen, accumulate DiI-Ac-LDL, contain Weibel-Palade bodies, and have complex junctional structures. The activities of -glutamyl transferase and alkaline phosphatase were measured as a function of time in culture. RCMECs had higher enzymatic activity than RAECs. In both RCMECs and RAECs enzyme activity decreased with time in culture. The function of endothelial cells is specialized depending on its location. This culture method allows comparison of two endothelial cell cultures obtained using very similar culture conditions, and describes their initial characterization. These cultures may provide a model system to study specialized endothelial cell functions and endothelial cell differentiation. 
4296470|The present study was undertaken to assess and compare the toxic effects of papaverine hydrochloride and its metabolites. Primary cell cultures of rat hepatocytes were treated with papaverine (papaver), 3'-O-desmethyl (3'-OH), 4'-O-desmethyl (4'-OH), and 6-O-desmethyl (6-OH) papaverine at 1  10
20171509| Kidney cells in culture represent one of many in vitro approaches for studying drug-induced nephrotoxicity. Potential advantages of cell culture systems compared to more traditional in vitro models include a) the ability to examine direct effects at the cellular level, b) extended viability, c) ability for long-term storage, and d) capabilities for automation. Primary cultures of kidney tubules as well as cell lines of kidney origin are currently under evaluation as model systems for the assessment of nephrotoxicity. The application of two renal cell systems, rabbit primary proximal tubule cultures and the pig kidney cell line, LLC-PK, in studying mechanisms of drug-induced nephrotoxicity is described in this communication. Potentially valuable insights into the renal pathogenesis associated with the antitumor agent, cis-diamminedichloroplatinum II, and the aminoglycoside antibiotic, gentamicin, have been obtained utilizing these renal cell models. Challenges in renal cell culture involve the characterization and maintenance of differentiated properties and the development of technologies to a) study bidirectional transport-toxicity of drugs, and b) provide a dynamic vs. static fluid environment as in vivo. Despite these unique challenges as well as the universal challenges involved in extrapolating any in vitro data to the in vivo situation, recent studies indicate that renal cells in culture are useful in the elucidation of mechanisms of drug-induced renal injury. 
4296372|The culturing of human endometrium in conventional plastic dishes and media is only partially successful, mainly because a growth of a heterogeneous population of cells is achieved. Naturally produced extracellular matrix closely resembles the subepithelial basement membrane and seems to affect both growth and differentiation of cells. These qualities of the extracellular matrix (ECM) were applied for obtaining endometrial epithelial cultures. Endometrial tissue specimens were plated after slicing on ECM-coated dishes and kept for up to 8 d. The growth of a confluent homogeneous tissue composed of polygonal epithelial-like cells was demonstrated. To further characterize these cells, cultures were examined by scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy revealed flattened polygonal cells covered with microvilli, among which ciliated cells were observed. By transmission electron microscopy the cells were seen as a monolayer, with some cells overlapping, closely adherent to the matrix. Microvilli, as well as intracellular vacuoles and glycogen granules were observed. Cell type specific cytoskeletal markers were demonstrated by antibodies to intermediate filament proteins (keratin and epithelial membrane antigen). Taken together, the morphologic and immunohistochemical studies indicate that a selective growth of the epithelial component of endometrial tissue was obtained after plating unprocessed endometrial tissue fragments on ECM-coated culture dishes.
4296011| Kidney cortical tubular cells, mainly proximal tubular cells, isolated from human kidney and grown either on a basement membrane substrate in chemically defined medium or on plastic in serum-supplemented medium, had substantial proliferate potential and could be propagated for more than 10 generations or 8 passages before senescence. Basement membrane produced on a plastic substrate by the HR-9 endodermal cell line could replace serum supplementation in promoting tubular cell growth. Tubular cells grown on an HR-9 basement membrane substrate exhibited stable epithelial morphology over an extended period of time; in the presence of 5% serum they differentiated into organized structures such as hemicysts and cell cords. Cells grown on plastic failed to differentiate and gradually degenerated. Tubular cells on HR-9 basement membrane were characterized by densely packed microvilli, abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and free polysomes, basal cell membrane interdigitations, a well-developed endocytotic apparatus, and conspicuous junctional complexes-all features of the proximal tubular cell. Compared with cells on plastic substrate, there were higher levels of the brush border enzymes -glutamyl transpeptidase, L-leucine aminopeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase in cells maintained on an HR-9 basement membrane substrate, further supporting the conclusion that a basement membrane substrate promoted differentiation of tubular cells. These data and morphological observations indicate that a basement membrane substrate can promote growth and both functional and morphologic differentiation of human kidney tubular cells. 
20171468|Rat prostate extracts contain an abundant 20-22 kilodalton heparin-binding protein with near identical chromatographic properties, but only 0.2-1% of the mitogenic activity, of bovine brain heparin-binding growth factor-1 (acidic fibroblast growth factor). Amino terminal amino acid sequence (met-met-thr-asp-lys-asn-leu-lys-lys-lys-ile-glu-gly-asn-trp-arg-thr-val-tyr -leu-ala-ala-ser-?-val-glu-lys-ile-asn-glu-gly-ser-pro) and immunochemical analysis revealed that the protein is identical to the androgen-dependent protein "probasin".
4296326|We produced human-human hybridomas by fusing lymph node lymphocytes of breast cancer patients with a fusion partner, HO-323 cells, in the presence of 50% polyethylene glycol, and screened hybridomas producing monoclonal antibodiy (MoAb) reactive to a breast cancer cell line, MCF-7. Among 11 hybridomas secreting IgM reactive to MCF-7, four hybridomas (H15A3, H15F2, K15B4, and K15C3) produced IgM reacting specifically to breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7 and HBC-5). Among them, H15A3 proliferated in a serum-free (RDF) medium supplemented with insulin, transferrin, ethanolamine, selenium, and endothelial cell growth supplement, as fast as in 10% FCS-RDF medium. According to transfer blotting analysis, the H15F2 MoAb reacted with a 40 000 dalton antigen in MCF-7 cells.
4295812|Dispersed adult rat pancreatic islet cells were incubated with Cytodex-3 microcarrier beads for 72 h, during which time single cells adhered firmly to bead surfaces. Electron microscopy revealed well-preserved ultrastructure of attached A, B, and D cells. Perifusion of these cultures showed stable basal insulin release, brisk, biphasic insulin responses to 30-min glucose stimulation, and consistent, monophasic spikes of insulin release in response to repeated, brief pulses of glucose. These results indicate that adult rat islet cells attach to microcarriers and remain viable in culture. This preparation offers advantages for studies of hormone secretory dynamics of differentiated single islet cells, free from cell-to-cell interactions.
4296443|When attached Y79 retinoblastoma cells are exposed to different culture conditions they seem to differentiate along distinct pathways. These changes are associated with characteristic alterations in shape. Shape change in a complex culture is difficult to quantify by visual observation. Therefore, we have been developing a method, using a computerized image analysis system, for describing the overall morphology of cultured cells. Images from the microscope are digitized and presented on a monitor that has a high resolution touch screen attached. Individual cells are then traced, and the perimeter, area, and
4296503| We have introduced hsp-cat plasmid DNA into Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) cells by transfection with purified DNA (1 to 48 g/ml) mixed with the polycation polybrene (100 g/ml) in serum-free Grace's medium. The hsp-cat construct contains a gene coding for the bacterial enzyme chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT), whose expression is controlled by a promoter derived from a Drosophila heat shock protein (hsp) gene. Expression of CAT activity in transfected Spodoptera cells was induced by a 2-h heat shock at 43 C. The temperature of the heat shock was based on conditions that maximized the expression of endogenous heat shock protein genes in these cells. CAT activity was maximal in cells that were exposed to the heat shock 2 d after transfection; by 4 d, activity was diminished, and little activity was detectable after 6 d. Transfection frequencies, which varied with DNA concentration and ranged as high as 6000 per million cells, were determined using a histochemical staining procedure. 
4296247|P. falciparum, an intraerythrocytic parasite, obtains nourishment primarily through phagocytosis of the host cytosol but also through the incorporation of extracellular small molecules which enter through the parasitized red cell's membrane via pores. Normal mature erythrocytes are incapable of endocytosis. Several lines of evidence suggest that extracellular large molecules may be taken up when the mature red cell is parasitized by P. falciparum, but direct evidence has been lacking. We now report the use of ferritin, an electron dense protein, to demonstrate endocytosis in P. falciparum infected red cells. Parasitized red cells incubated with ferritin internalize that macromolecule as demonstrated by electron microscopy. While normal red cells incubated with ferritin took up none of the tracer molecule, parasitized red cells internalized substantial amounts. In addition both ferritin and apoferritin inhibited the growth of P. falciparum in a dose dependent fashion, again indicating endocytosis of a macromolecule. These data indicate that P. falciparum can somehow stimulate the mature erythrocyte to engage in endocytosis. We also note that both infected and non-infected red cells in a culture in which P. falciparum is growing become abnormally sticky for ferritin. Moreover, parasitized red cells bind
20171530| Different organotypical culture methods are used to test the direct effects of serotonin and ketanserin, a S, , and H receptor antagonist in vascular tissue, on fibroblasts and epidermal cells of embryonic chick skin in vitro. From light microscopic and electron microscopic analyses, we learn that serotonin enhances keratinization and differentiation, whereas ketanserin reduces differentiation in comparison to the control cultures. Incorporation data of fragments cultured with [H]thymidine show that ketanserin, within a dose range from 0.05 to 5 g/ml, stimulates proliferation. Serotonin at a concentration of 10 g/ml slightly slows down proliferation, whereas lower doses of 0.1 and 1 g/ml result in tritium activities that do not differ from control cultures. 
4296203| We established for human fetal liver cells (cultured for 2 wk) in a hormonally defined medium, optimal conditions for attachment, multiplication, and preservation of epithelial morphology as well as production and secretion of serum proteins characteristic of fetal (1-fetoprotein, AFP) and adult (albumin and hemopexin) life. Conditions were considered optimal when cell number, albumin, and hemopexin levels were maintained throughout the 2-wk culture period. However, the decrease in AFP concentration, which occurred after a few days of culture, could not be reversed. The culture system developed is a suitable model for studying regulatory mechanisms governing structure and function during differentiation and may prove useful for testing the effect of toxic agents during fetal development of the human liver. 
4296448|Liver connective tissue cells have been characterized as perisinusoidal myofibroblasts and hepatic lipocytes (Ito cells, fat-storing cells). A concept of a single mesenchymal cell population that may be modulated between these two phenotypes has been postulated. We have previously established a continuous murine cell line, GRX, obtained from fibrotic granulomatous lesions induced by schistosomal infection in mouse liver. This cell line is considered to represent liver myofibroblasts. In the present study we have induced the conversion of these cells into lipocyte (fat storing) phenotype by treatment with insulin and indomethacin. We have quantified the lipid synthesis and the increase of activity of involved enzymes during the induction of the fat-storing phenotype and described modifications of cell organization along this modulation of cell functions.
20171464| NEL-M1 human melanoma cells have been established to grow in Ham's F12 medium in the absence of serum, hormones, and exogenous growth factors. Conditioned medium from NEL-M1 cultures stimulates growth of these same cells whereas glucocorticoids retard growth in the presence and absence of conditioned medium. Because recent reports indicate that glucocorticoids inhibit the synthesis of growth factors from a variety of cell types, we hypothesized that glucocorticoids may be inhibiting growth of NEL-M1 cells by either suppressing the synthesis of the autocrine growth factor or regulating other secretory proteins that may inhibit the activity of the autocrine growth factor. Initial studies were done to clearly show that NEL-M1 cells were growth inhibited, both in vivo and in vitro, when exposed to the synthetic glucocorticoid, triamcinolone acetonide (TA). When NEL-M1 cells were injected into nude mice and treated with TA (100 g per mouse per week) a 67% reduction in tumor mass was observed compared to the control group over a 5-wk growth period. Additional studies show that in a serum-free defined medium TA (100 nM) inhibited growth of NEL-M1 cells by 56% after 6 d in culture. At this same time TA was shown to affect the expression of several proteins secreted from these cells. TA treatment resulted in the appearance of a 125 000 molecular weight protein, suppression of the synthesis-secretion of three proteins (37 000, 57 000, and 76 000 molecular weight) and enhanced expression of a 60 000-molecular weight protein. However when NEL-M1 cells were cultured in conditioned medium from TA-treated cells, a stimulation in both [H]thymidine incorporation into DNA and cell proliferation was observed. When the conditioned medium was fractionated by Amicon ultrafiltration, the growth stimulatory activity was found in the &lt;10 000 molecular weight fraction. These results demonstrate that glucocorticoids, as a single agent, inhibit the growth of NEL-M1 human melanoma cells. However, this growth inhibition by glucocorticoids may not be through the regulation of the synthesis-secretion of the autocrine growth factor. Furthermore, the data suggest that the glucocorticoid-sensitive secretory proteins may not be directly involved in the in vitro regulation of NEL-M1 cellular growth. 
4296488|Normal human endometrial cells were grown on an extracellular matrix containing type IV collagen, laminin, heparan sulfate proteoglycan, and entactin (Matrigel). On the extracellular matrix, dispersed endometrial cells remained rounded, and aggregated to form mounds of cells, which continued to grow in this arrangement. At 10 d, light microscopy demonstrated that these mounds were comprised of an eosinophilic substance, containing individual fusiform stromal cells. About 50% of the mounds were covered with a single layer of polarized cuboidal to columnar cells with basal nuclei, whereas 60% contained columnar cells forming glandular structures with open lumina. These polarized cuboidal and columnar cells were epithelial, based on their positive staining for cytokeratins and the possession of microvilli, tonofilaments, abundant glycogen, ribosomes, and primitive junctional complexes. Kreyberg's stain showed the presence of mucin within the lumina of the glands, indicating that they were functional. Thus, human endometrial cells grown on an extracellular matrix form a simple cuboidal to columnar epithelium, a stromal component, and glandular structures, thereby mimicking the in vivo morphology of the endometrium.
4296767|To identify polypeptide growth factors for human teratocarcinoma cells, we studied the malignant ovarian teratoma-derived cell line, PA-1, that grew autonomously in serum-free medium. Medium conditioned by undifferentiated PA-1 cells strongly stimulated proliferation of the mouse mammary tumor cell line, GR 2H6, which is responsive to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulinlike growth factor-I (IGF-I). After ammonium sulfate precipitation, PA-1 conditioned medium was analyzed by anion exchange chromatography and bioassay of elution fractions on GR 2H6 cells that were grown in medium deficient in either EGF or insulin. The results demonstrated that PA-1 CM contained factors that can substitute for EGF and IGF-I in stimulating growth of GR 2H6 cells. Western blots of peak mitogenic fractions revealed low molecular weight polypeptides that were immunoreactive with either anti-EGF or anti-IGF-I antibodies. Indirect immunofluorescence staining of PA-1 cells with monoclonal antibodies localized receptors for each growth factor, and binding of human EGF and IGF-I to these cells was quantified by radioreceptor assays. Secretion of factors closely related to EGF and IGF-I by PA-1 cells under serum-free conditions may provide a novel model system to study molecular mechanisms of autocrine growth stimulation in teratocarcinomas.
4296655|Iron absorption by intestinal epithelial cells, passage onto plasmatic apotransferrin, and regulation of the process remain largely misunderstood. To investigate this problem, we have set up an in vitro model, consisting in CaCo2 cells (a human colon adenocarcinoma line, which upon cultivation displays numerous differentiation criteria of small intestine epithelial cells). Cells are cultivated in a serum-free medium, containing
4296504|Populations of normal and tumorigenic epithelial cells were plated in normal (serum supplemented) and a minimal defined medium. The ability of cells to grow in the minimal defined medium vs. the normal medium was related to their tumorigenic ability. All of the clones that were capable of growth in the minimal defined medium demonstrated tumorigenic ability. None of the normal clones survived in the minimal defined medium. As expected, some of the tumorigenic clones could not grow in the minimal medium. However, at no time did a clone that grew in the minimal defined medium fail to demonstrate tumorigenic ability. This validated that this system can be an animal-free means for selecting tumorigenic epithelial cells out of a mixed population.
4296703|The mesothelial cells obtained from human omental adipose tissue showed a typical cobblestone monolayer and reacted strongly with keratin, but did not have Von Willebrand factor. Ultrastructurally these cells revealed the existence of desmosome-like cell junctions as well as intracellular canaliculi, tubular structures surrounded by microvilli, and tonofilament-like filaments. The mesothelial cells grew much faster in the medium containing epidermal growth factor, actively took up acetylated-low density lipoprotein into their cytoplasm, and released angiotensin-converting enzyme. They also released urokinase-type plasminogen activator, but only half as much as do human umbilical vein endothelial cells; release of tissue-type plasminogen activator was not observed. Inasmuch as the mesothelial cells also released plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, as do human umbilical vein endothelial cells, we could not detect u-PA activity in culture medium. u-PA may play a role in the protection against adhesion among visceral organs. These observations indicate that cultured human mesothelial cells have characteristics closely related to those found in human endothelial cells.
4296906|The establishment of a new glioma cell line, DBTRG-05MG, in a modified RPMI 1640 medium is described. The cells were derived from an adult female with glioblastoma multiforme who had been treated with local brain irradiation and multidrug chemotherapy; the tumor showed substantial change in histologie appearance compared to the original biopsy 13 mo. previously. The line has been successfully cryopreserved and passaged up to 20 times. The karyotype of the cells demonstrated it as a hypotetraploid line; the DNA index of 1.9 confirmed the karyotype analyses. By immunoeytochemical analysis, the cell line reacted with polyclonal antibodies to vimentin, S100, and neuron specific enolase, reflecting its primitive neuroectodermal character. Positive immunostaining for epidermal growth factor receptor correlated with the excess of chromosome 7 seen in the karyotype. The cell line reacted negatively to antibodies against platelet-derived growth factor and its receptor, neuronal cell adhesion molecule, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. By flow cytometry, the cells were major histocompatibility class I antigen positive and class II antigen negative. Growth kinetic studies demon-strated an approximate population doubling time of 34 to 41 h and a colony forming efficiency of 71.4%. Western blot analysis showed the presence of low levels of normal-sized retinoblastoma protein. When compared to the patient's lymphocyte DNA, no loss of heterozygosity of the p53 tumor suppressor gene was observed in the DBTRG-05MG cell line DNA.
4296913| We investigated the ability of the TALL-103/2 and TALL-104 leukemic cell lines to produce lymphokines in response to activation signals, such as tumor cells and anti-CD3 (OKT3) or -CD2 (B67.1) monoclonal antibodies (mAb) or both. Both cell lines were found to produce high levels of interferon (IFN)-7, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-a, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). The latter lymphokine is induced by lysable tumor cells and by immobilized OKT3 and B67.1 mAb only in the presence of interleukin (IL-2). IFN- and TNF- are induced upon CD3 but not CD2 stimulation, both in the presence and absence of IL-2. Interestingly, the B67.1 mAb amplifies the OKT3-induced responses by 2-to 10-fold, bringing the IFN- and TNF- levels of production up to 200 U/ml. Thus, simultaneous triggering of the CD2 and CD3 signaling pathways results in a very efficient lymphokine release. Of all the tumor cell lines tested as inducers, only K562 cells are able to stimulate the production of  and TNF- in TALL-103/2 and TALL-104 cells, especially upon culture in IL-2. Lymphokine mRNA expression after stimulation with mAb or K562 cells peaks at 2 h in both cell lines. No messages are detectable in TALL-103/2 cells at 8 h, whereas in TALL-104 cells, IFN- and GM-CSF transcripts are still present at 8 and 20 h, respectively. The inducible and highly regulatable expression of lymphokine release by these cell lines provides a unique model for studying mechanisms of lymphokine induction by different biological agents. 
4296519|Peach leaf segments, immature embryos, and long-term embryogenic calli have been transformed in vitro with the engineered Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain A281 containing pGA472. All three tissue sources proliferated callus which grew on a medium containing 100-200 mg/l kanamycin or 10-20 mg/l G-418 as selective agents. These calli were shown to produce neomycin phosphotransferase. The results of Southern analyses were consistent with the incorporation of foreign DNA into the genome of leaf, embryo and embryogenic peach callus.
4295814|Hepatocytes were prepared by an in situ or biopsy perfusion of liver with collagenase. Hepatocytes from adult liver were cultured without serum on collagen-coated dishes in culture medium supplemented with hormones. Stable monolayers were established within 24 h and were maintained for up to 10 d. The hormone supplement maintained cytochrome P-450, a critical component of mixed function oxygenase responsible for activation of many procarcinogens. The addition of serum and phenobarbital to the cultures also maintained higher levels of mixed function oxygenase activity. Viable cultures were prepared from mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, dogs, monkeys, and humans. Metabolism studies revealed the rate of metabolism and the extent of covalent binding to macromolecules, including DNA. Measures of cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in vitro provide an indication of hepatonecrotic and hepatocarcinogenic potency in vivo. Comparative metabolism, cytotoxicity, and genotoxicity studies provide a means of facilitating the extrapolation of toxicity data from laboratory animals to humans.
4295877|In primary, short-term cultures derived from first and third trimester placentae, 60 to 90 and 70 to 95%, respectively, of the total cell population positively stain for cytokeratin intermediate filaments, typical of epithelial, i.e. trophoblastic cells. The rest of the cells express only vimentin intermediate filaments and thus are of mesenchymal origin. Only the cytokeratin-positive cells express human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), whereas both the epithelial and the mesenchymal cells stain positively for pregnancy-specific beta-1-glycoprtein (SP
20171384|During studies on serum-free clonal growth of rat mammary tumor line 64-24, we observed that liposome B causes a major increase in colony-forming efficiency. This phenomenon was studied with a short-term assay based on phase contrast microscopic observation of the effects of liposome B on recently plated, serum-depleted cells. In the serum-free medium, colony forming efficiency is not determined primarily by viability (measured by dye exclusion) or cell attachment. Instead, most of the effect is determined by the extent of degeneration that occurs during cell elongation and the first division. Factors that prevent degeneration, such as liposome B, restore colony forming efficiency. Prolactin alone stimulates cell elongation but does not prevent degeneration. However, the combination of prolactin and liposome B increases colony formation to levels observed in the presence of serum.
20171477| Conditions for optimum incorporation of radioactive amino acids into proteins of cultured postimplantation mouse embryos were investigated under the aspect of using these proteins for two-dimensional electrophoretic separations followed by fluorography. The aim was to obtain highly radioactive proteins under conditions as physiological as possible. Embryos at Days 10, 11, and 12 of gestation were prepared in different ways and incubated for 4 h in Tyrode's solution containing [H]amino acids (mixture) at a concentration of 27 Ci/ml medium. The preparations were: a) yolk sac opened, placenta and blood circulation intact; b) yolk sac and amnion opened, placenta and blood circulation intact (Day 10 embryos only); c) placenta, yolk sac, and amnion removed (embryo "naked"); d) naked embryos cut randomly into pieces (Day 10 embryos only). After incubation whole embryos or certain parts (tail, liver, rest body) were investigated by determining the radioactivity taken up by the protein. The results are given in dpm per mg protein per embryo. Radioactivity of proteins was about 3 times higher in naked embryos than in embryos left in their yolk sacs. This was true for all three stages investigated. However, the degree of radioactivity in the various parts of naked embryos differed by a factor of 15, whereas radioactivity was evenly distributed in embryos incubated in their yolk sacs. Therefore, embryos prepared according to the first method (see above) fulfilled the conditions required at the best. 
4296160|The rates at which growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (PRL) are spontaneously secreted from a rat pituitary tumor cell line (
4296691|Metamorphic and reproductive events in vertebrates and invertebrates are under endocrine control and are often correlated with developmental, behavioral, or reproductive changes in the parasites living in or on these hosts. This paper reviews selected examples of a) host hormone mediated influences on endoparasites in vivo, b) host hormone effects in vitro on protozoan, helminth, and insect endoparasites, and c) identifies possible relationships in hormone effects across parasite taxa. The significance of studies on endoparasites in vitro in relation to the impact of host hormones, antihelminthic, and prophylactic drugs on parasite growth and proliferation will also be addressed. A review of the literature indicates only limited studies have been done in vitro in an attempt to elucidate the bases of reported host hormone influences on endoparasites in vivo. Steroid hormones of hosts seem to stimulate growth, molting or encystment or both of helminth, insect, and protozoan parasites. Vertebrate steroids such as estrogen, testosterone, and progesterone had primarily reproduction- or growth-promoting effects or both on protozoan and nematode parasites. Insect ecdysteroids such as ecdysone, 20-hydroxyecdysone, and makisterone were the most widely studied steroids in vitro and induced growth or molting or both of cestode, nematode, and insect parasite larvae. Although juvenile hormone (JH III) stimulated growth in the protozoan and nematode parasites tested, the analogue methoprene and JH precursors, farnesal, farnesol, and farnesol methyl ether had various effects. Biogenic amines also varied in their effects on the nematode parasites tested, while the peptide hormone, insulin, stimulated growth in the protozoans tested. The evidence for in vitro effects of host hormones on their natural endoparasites is patchy at best. Additional studies are needed to identify the biochemical bases for the numerous host hormone mediated effects on parasites.
4296449|The following studies were undertaken to develop a cultured uterine myocyte model which would allow further clarification of the adrenergic signal transduction mechanisms utilized by these myocytes. After mechanical removal of the endometrium, rabbit uterine myocytes were isolated by an overnight enzymatic disaggregation using collagenase and DNase I. The isolated myocytes were maintained in culture in
4295737|Human hepatoma cells grow at high cell density in the absence of exogenous growth factors. At low cell density, two different hepatoma cell lines required a novel growth factor from brain tissue. A factor with similar physico-chemical properties in the concentrated medium from high density cultures completely substituted for the brain extract. The autogenous secretion of a novel liver cell growth factor that is concentrated in brain tissue may underlie in part the unregulated growth of hepatomas.
20171543|A cell line (ULF-23HU) from the fin of the central mudminnow (Umbra limi) was characterized and tested for its suitability to assess cytogenetic damages induced by chemicals in fish. Cells of this line exhibit a fibroblastlike appearance and grew optimal at 25 C in TC-199 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum, but slower growth continued down to 4 C, where they could be stored for prolonged periods. Seeding efficiency of ULF-23HU cells on the plastic substratum was approximately 85% in the above culture medium at 25 C. They had a 32-h cell cycle time taken up by a 20-h S period as determined by the autoradiographic analysis of the fraction of labeled mitosis. Cultures showed relatively high mitotic index (0.84 to 2.35%) during exponential growth phase lasting about 7 d. Karyological analysis of the cells at the different subculture passages revealed constant chromosome modal number of 23 consisting of metacentric or submetacentric chromosomes, which were primarily similar to those of in vivo cells, with one additional chromosome. The spontaneous sister chromatid exchange rate was 5.3 per metaphase. When ULF-23HU cells were exposed to N-nitroso-N-methylurea, a clastogen in the mammalian cells, dose-dependent increases both in sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were clearly detected. These results on the growth kinetics and cytogenetic characteristics offered the high possibility of the use of this cell line as a suitable in vitro model for clastogenicity studies in fish.
4296177|A high density, purified, nontoxic solvent, heptacosafluorotributylamine (FC43), was successfully used as a culture surface for growing several normal and oncogene-transformed cell lines under anchorage-independent conditions. Normal rat kidney (NRK) fibroblasts and the normal mammary epithelial cell lines NMuMG and Al, clone N4, of murine and human origin, respectively, failed to grow at a FC43 growth medium interphase or in soft agar in the absence of transforming growth factor alpha (
4295776|In order to define humoral growth factors which may regulate mammalian renal development, the growth requirements of fetal metanephric organogenesis were studied in serum-free murine organ culture. Metanephric growth, determined by cell proliferation and protein content, and metanephric differentiation, determined morphometrically as epithelial glomerular formation, were compared and contrasted following 144 hours of organ culture incubation in basal medium, basal medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, and basal medium supplemented with various combinations of growth factors. The basal medium was composed of equal volumes of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and Ham's F-12 medium. Five humoral growth factors were studied in the following concentrations: selenium,
20171567| Cultured McA-RH7777 rat hepatoma cells actively synthesize and secrete plasma lipoproteins. However, synthesis of [C]triglyceride declines monotonically throughout the early growth period and remains low in postconfluent cultures; and net secretion of [C]triglyceride is 10-fold more efficient in logarithmically growing cultures than in postconfluent cultures. Secretion of apolipoproteins associated with very low density and low density lipoproteins is selectively reduced in postconfluent cultures. The temporal reductions in [C]triglyceride production are related more strongly to increasing cell concentration (cells/cm medium) than to increasing cell density (cells/cm growth surface). We have allowed cells to grow either retained within small circular corrals or unrestricted in culture dishes. When seeded at equal density (10 cells/cm) but at one-fifth the cell concentration, corralled cells synthesize twice as much [C]triglyceride per cell after 2 and 4 d, and are 10 times as efficient in [C]triglyceride secretion by 6 d of growth, as noncorralled cells. When seeded at equal cell concentration (10 cells/dish) but at 5 times the cell density, corralled cells are only 20% less efficient at [C]triglyceride synthesis and secretion than noncorralled cells. Conditioned medium depresses synthesis and secretion efficiency of [C]triglyceride. Orotic acid exposure also inhibits synthesis of [C]triglyceride and secretion of certain [S]apolipoproteins in early cultures, but it has no significant effect on late cultures. We conclude that diffusion-mediated events are important regulators of triglyceride and apolipoprotein production in growing rat hepatoma cells, but that events associated with formation of cell-to-cell contacts play a minor role in regulation of plasma lipoprotein biogenesis. 
4295996|A procedure is described which allows primary cultures of rat keratinocytes grown at the liquid-air interface to develop and maintain multilayered strata and to produce highly keratinized sheets morphologically similar to those seen in epidermis in situ. Various substrata were tested and compared as to their ability to support growth and stratification of keratinocytes. It was found that when cultured on plastic surfaces, keratinocytes adhered tightly to the substratum and produced a confluent monolayer that later stratified to two to three layers. Cells plated on Vitrogen 100 collagen failed to reach confluence and, in addition, exhibited the "clustering" phenomenon and deterioration of collagen after 3 to 4 d of growth. Significantly better attachment and spreading were observed for cells grown on rat-tail collagen as compared with plastic and Vitrogen 100 collagen. The best results, including maximal and uniform stratification, were seen in cells grown on a mixture of rat-tail and Vitrogen 100 collagens. The system that was developed in the present study offers a model for use in the study of epidermal toxicity from topically applied environmental chemicals.
4295831|Peripheral blood samples from Sprague-Dawley rats gave successful lymphocyte growth in GIBCO: 1A, RPMI 1640, and Eagle's minimum essential medium (MEM) culture media. Various growth conditions, cytokinetics, and sister chromatic exchange (SCE) induction were studied using reconstituted GIBCO 1A only. Neither methoxyflurane anesthesia of the rats before sampling nor washing of the cells with phosphate buffered saline affected the mitotic index. Cultures treated with [
4295884|Several studies have shown the importance of different hormones in the regulation of mammary tissue growth. The use of organ culture techniques has shown tremendous value for the knowledge of cell proliferation in human breast tissue. Therefore, the purpose of these studies was to analyze the length of the cell cycle, DNA-labeling index, mitotic index, and growth fraction under the effects of insulin, hydrocortisone, and
20171514|For serum-free primary culture of adult rat hepatocytes, a synthetic medium DM-160 and rat-tail collagen were selected for the basal medium and for the culture substratum, respectively. Barbiturates, such as phenobarbital and 1-ethyl-5-isobutylbarbiturate, efficiently supported survival of hepatocytes and maintained their morphologic features at lower concentrations under the serum-free conditions than under the serum-supplemented conditions. However, the hepatocyte survival rates under the serum-free conditions were lower than those under the serum-supplemented conditions in the presence or absence of barbiturates. Supplementation of the basal medium with a combination of five groups of factors (5Fs), such as eight amino acids (Ala, Arg, Gly, Ile, Met, Phe, Pro, and Trp), two unsaturated fatty acids (linoleate and oleate), a protease inhibitor (aprotinin), three vitamins (A, C, and E), and five trace elements (Mn, Fe, Cu, Zn, and Se), improved the hepatocyte survival under the serum-free conditions in the presence or absence of barbiturates. In other words, the serum could be completely substituted by the 5Fs. Hepatocyte cultures maintained in the 5Fs-supplemented basal medium showed excellent induction of tyrosine aminotransferase activity in response to dexamethasone in the presence or absence of barbiturates. The efficiency of the 5Fs-supplemented basal medium for maintaining hepatocytes was not inferior to those of other media in common use with hepatocytes, such as Williams' medium E and Waymouth's medium MB-752/1. In conclusion, maintenance of functional hepatocytes in serum-free primary culture could be improved by use of the new medium preparation (the 5Fs-supplemented DM-160) in the presence of barbiturates.
4295741| The feasibility of using plant cell culture to measure toxicity was determined by investigating the toxicological effects of three chemical compounds, allyl alcohol, propargylglycine, and cadmium chloride, on cell cultures of Catharanthus roseus G. Don (Madagascar periwinkle). Suspension cultures of C. roseus were maintained in modified B5 medium and transferred every 5 d. Five-day-old cell cultures were exposed to various concentrations (10,3,1,0.3,0.1,0.03,0.01,0.003,0.001,0.0003,0.0001, 0.00003, and 0.0 mM) of the toxicants in both acute and chronic toxicity tests. In the acute test, cells were exposed to the toxicant for 24 h, washed three times with sterile medium, and plated in petri plates with an equal volume of 1.4% agar medium. Cells in the chronic test were plated with an equal volume of 1.4% agar medium containing various concentrations of the toxicant. Cells were incubated 28 d at 30 C in the dark. The colonies were counted and the results plotted as percent survival versus toxicant concentration. The results indicate, at the concentrations tested, that C. roseus assay may be feasible in that it fulfills the criteria for a practical assay (e.g., rapid, simple, quantifiable, and reproducible). 
4296844| We investigated the heterogeneity of cells in terms of androgen responsiveness within a single tumor mass of Shionogi carcinoma SC-115 showing androgen-dependent growth. After cloning of the tumor by the limiting dilution method in the presence of androgen, we isolated 40 clones at random. Twenty-two clones required androgen for growth (androgen-dependent phenotype), 16 did not (androgen-independent phenotype), and the remaining two clones showed growth inhibition when androgen was added (androgen-suppressed phenotype). In addition, 22 androgen-dependent clones showed heterogeneity in growth factor sensitivity in the absence of androgen. All clones were sensitive to both acidic and basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF), 7 of 22 clones were sensitive to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-, and 2 of 22 clones were sensitive to TGF-. This preexisting heterogeneity may be partly responsible for the growth of androgen-dependent tumor under hormone-deprived circumstances. Three typical clones, SC2G, SC1G, and SC4A, were selected from androgen-dependent, -independent, and -suppressed phenotypic groups, respectively. These clones, as well as original solid tumors, were found to produce heparin-binding growth factors of heterogeneous elution positions. The molecular nature of these growth factors is not yet known. Neither anti-basic FGF antibody nor anti-EGF antibody inhibited the cell growth when added in cell culture, suggesting the factors were distinct from basic-FGF and EGF. 
4296293|Construction details are described for a minichamber device that maintains a localized atmosphere of carbon dioxide in air over the stage of an inverted microscope. This device is easily constructed from Plexiglas and its specifications can be adjusted to fit virtually any inverted microscope. A flow of warm, humidified carbon dioxide in air gas mixture can be directed over a petri dish or unsealed culture flask to maintain the pH of $bicarbonate-CO_2$ buffered media. By this means, prolonged culture of cells directly on the microscope stage is made possible without occurrence of detrimental pH changes. If the microscope is fitted with an environmental control chamber to maintain temperature, cells can be maintained on the microscope stage for days, permitting frequent observation of cell growth and activity. Alternatively, continuous cine or video recordings can be made. For example, using this device, hamster and rhesus monkey embryos have been cultured for 2 to 5 d on an inverted microscope while continuous time-lapse recordings were made of cell division and differentiation and activity of cellular organelles.
4295763| Epithelial cells from mouse seminal vesicles were enzymatically dissociated, enriched by gradient centrifugation, and maintained in collagen gel cultures with defined (serum-free) media. The epithelial origin of the cells was determined morphologically, immunocytochemically, and biochemically. Cells formed three-dimensional colonies with a lumen in collagen gels. Cell number was increased eight-fold within a 8 to 12-d culture period in a medium supplemented with epidermal growth factor (EGF) (10 ng/ml), insulin (10 g/ml), transferrin (10 g/ml), cholera toxin (10 ng/ml), and hydrocortisone (0.1 g/ml). The cells required EGF and insulin; the growth-promoting effects of these two peptide hormones were optimized by transferrin, cholera toxin, and hydrocortisone. Fetal bovine serum did not support growth; rather, it suppressed the stimulated growth observed in serum-free media. A time-course study revealed that a lag period preceded rapid growth. The collagen gel, serum-free culture provides a powerful tool to study the effects of hormones on proliferation and differentiation of androgen sensitive cells. 
20171406|Levels of seven messenger RNA species were compared in human umbilical vein endothelial cells of different lineage and time in culture. Specifically, cells obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) and subcultured were compared to early passage cells from cultures produced in our laboratory. Messenger RNA for tissue plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, urokinase, and thrombomodulin were expressed at higher levels in the ATCC cells. Thrombospondin, von Willebrand's Factor, and protein S messenger RNA were expressed at higher levels in the cells that we isolated. In addition, in the ATCC cells a shift in the proportion of plasminogen activator inhibitor messenger RNA from the 3.4 to the 2.4 kilobase species was found. We conclude that specific messenger RNA levels can vary considerably between cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells. The large variation in mRNA levels which we describe has important implications for experiments involving gene expression in cultured endothelium.
20171366| A method for efficiently infecting primary myogenic cultures with a temperature-sensitive variant of the Prague strain of Rous sarcoma virus (RSV, tsLA24) to obtain a high yield of transformed myogenic cells is reported. It incorporates the use of an amorphous polymer of polycations, Polybrene, to enhance the absorption of the virus by the muscle cells. In addition, other steps which were shown to be important were a) to allow cell attachment before infection, b) to infect at 35 C in low protein medium, c) to use a density of 1 to 1.5  10 cells/60-mm dish, d) gentle agitation during infection, and e) to minimize the number of passages after infection. The use of the temperature-sensitive virus provided a means of confirming the presence of myogenic cells in transformed cultures. When infected cells were maintained at 35 C (the permissive temperature for virus activity) they exhibited the characteristics of transformed cells. These characteristics included altered cell morphology, the absence of contact-inhibited growth, growth in semisolid medium, and expression of the src oncogene. In contrast, when infected cells were maintained at 41 C (the nonpermissive temperature for virus activity) they do not express src and showed normal myogenic development and ultimately formed myotubes. 
4296131|
               
4295759|Hamster tracheal explants have been used to assay for mucosecretory activity in media taken from cultures of fibroblasts isolated from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Cystic fibrosis and normal sera were first used to establish optimal conditions for mucus release in the hamster tracheal ring assay. Unless protein levels were maintained at 5% serum concentration or greater there was loss of cilia, nonspecific mucus accumulation, and extensive epithelial damage to the luminal surface. Likewise, it was shown that exposure of the explants to unconcentrated conditioned media from CF (GM 770, 768, 1348, 142) or normal (GM 3349, 38) cultured fibroblasts for 1, 6, or 12 h resulted in the same type of damage and this was due to low protein levels. When the protein concentration of the conditioned media was increased with fetal bovine serum, the morphological integrity of the explants was maintained, demonstrating that there was no apparent difference between CF and normal fibroblast-secreted proteins in ability to induce mucus release. The ciliary inhibitory capacity of CF serum-derived or fibroblast-derived factor had been reported to require IgG for activity. However, addition of IgG to high molecular weight (VoP10) or low molecular weight (VeP10) secreted proteins had no apparent effect on stimulating secretion. In conclusion, it is possible that CF fibroblasts do not secrete a protein that has the mucostimulatory effect and thus these cells may not be suitable for studying the CF-related activity.
4296052| The life span and growth from clonal density of bovine adrenocortical cell cultures were studied in serum-supplemented medium and a serum-free defined medium, which supported sustained cell proliferation and steroid production. The total culture life span was 79 population doublings in serum-supplemented medium with fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and 36 population doublings in the defined medium without serum. Older passage cell cultures grown in the defined medium progressively lost the ability to produce 11- and 21-hydroxylated steroids, which was observed previously for cultures in serum-supplemented medium, and also had a decline of 17-hydroxylated steroid production. The cloning efficiency in the defined medium was 12.2% as compared to 24% in serum-supplemented medium with FGF. Five isolated clonal cell lines grown in the defined medium were characterized for steroid function in response to steroidogenic agents. All five clonal cell lines had stimulated steroid production with 8-bromo-cAMP, but only four of the clonal lines were stimulated also by adrenocorticotropin. None of the clonal cell lines produced 11-, 21- or 17-hydroxylated steroids in response to treatment with either steroidogenic agent, results that were similar to data obtained from older mass cultures. The apparent deficiency of the defined medium as compared to serum-supplemented medium for maximum support of the culture life span and cloning efficiency may be useful in studies of cellular aging and its relation to differentiated function for this cell culture system. 
4296958| Primary cultures of circulatory blood cells from the colonial tunicate Botryllus schlosseri were cultivated in 96-well plates for up to 3 mo. in a medium based on Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium, supplemented with salts to the botryllid ascidian hemolymph osmolarity, HEPES buffer, L-glutamin, fetal bovine serum, and antibiotics. Intercellular bridges between granular pigment cells were established within 24 h. The viability of these cells decreased slowly, and most died within 1 mo. without any sign of cell proliferation. Other cell types remained in an arrested state and were subjected to a weekly medium exchange. Spontaneous cell proliferation was randomly recorded in 6 to 10% of the wells from 2 wk to 1 mo. This proliferation was followed by the formation of masses of cell clumps, from which uniform hemocytes (5 m, lymphocytelike cells) migrated peripherally. Stress conditions, which included longer intervals between medium exchanges and partial medium replacement, increased the probability of cell proliferation. From each proliferating primary culture, we successfully performed up to 10 plating cycles over a period of 15 wk, during which the cells differentiate in size but are uniformly structured. This produced the first Botryllus lymphocytelike cell line. From this stage, cell numbers remained constant for up to 6 mo. without increase in cell number. Several mitogenic factors were employed on primary cultures. Botryllus and sea cucumber hemolymphs and mixed interleukins were found to augment significantly proliferation of at least one specific cell size, whereas cells were not markedly responsive to lectins (Concavalin A, wheat germ agglutinin, Ulex europaeus agglutinin), insulin, and retinoic acid. The results are discussed with respect to future efforts in the development of tunicate blood cell cultures. 
4295976|Epithelium from normal human endometrium was cultured as morphologically stable vesicular structures in a defined, hormone-supplemented PFMR-4 medium. The structures consisted of a single layer of polarized epithelial cells with the apical surface facing the external culture medium, and the basal surface resting on a well-defined basal lamina adjacent to the internal lumen. Vesicles were shown to (a) retain their viability for up to 3 mo. in culture, (b) to actively synthesize DNA after being cultured for over a month in a defined medium, and (c) to respond to steroid hormones. When embedded within a collagen gel, the vesicles reversed their epithelial polarity and formed branching, pseudoglandular structures. It was concluded that the three-dimensional shape of the epithelial vesicles had a critical role to play in their morphological stability, nutrient requirement, and hormone sensitivity.
4296294|Exposure of squamous carcinoma cell (SCC) lines, exhibiting high levels of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors, to EGF for 6 d caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. This EGF-induced inhibition of cell proliferation occurred under both low (0.06 mM) and normal (1.6 mM) Ca<sup>2+</sup> concentrations. Furthermore, the extent of EGF-induced inhibition of cell proliferation seemed to be independent of the number of EGF-receptors. This conclusion is based on the notion that the various SCC lines exhibited an increasing number of EGF receptors accompanied by a decreasing ability to differentiate, whereas no relationship was observed with the EGF-induced inhibition of cell proliferation in these cell lines. Retinoids caused also a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. The effects of EGF and retinoids were additive, indicating that different regulatory mechanisms are involved. On the other hand, hydrocortisone caused a stimulation of SCC-proliferation, also independent of EGF. In contrast to SCC cells, EGF did not affect significantly the rate of proliferation of normal keratinocytes. However, the simultaneous addition of EGF and hydrocortisone resulted in a significant increase in the rate of keratinocyte proliferation only in cells grown under normal calcium conditions. Differentiation capacity of normal keratinocytes and SCC lines was not affected by EGF. Furthermore, the retinoid-induced decrease and hydrocortisone-induced increase of competence of cells to form cornified envelopes was not affected by EGF. These observations suggest that the action of retinoids and hydrocortisone on both cell proliferation and cell differentiation occurs independently of EGF receptors.
4296530|We have previously demonstrated trophic effects of gastrin on mouse colon cancer (MC-26) cells, in vivo, and demonstrated the presence of gastrin receptors (GR) on these cells. The cellular and intracellular mechanism by which gastrin expresses trophic effects on colon cancer cells is, however, as yet unknown. For us to start investigating the possible mechanisms involved, it was important that we first develop an in vitro model, in v/hich gastrin expresses its trophic effects directly on the MC-26 cells. The growth-promoting effects of gastrin on the MC-26 cells were examined in various in vitro culture models, in terms of [
4296427|A new cell line from the human umbilical vein has been established and maintained for more than 5 yr (180 generations; 900 population doublings). This strain, designated ECV304, is characterized by a cobblestone monolayer growth pattern, high proliferative potential without any specific growth factor requirement, and anchorage dependency with contact inhibition. Karyotype analysis of this cell line reveals it to be of human chromosomal constitution with a high trisomic karyotype (mode 80). Ultrastructurally, endothelium-specific Weibel-Palade bodies were identified. Although one of the endothelial cell markers, Factor VIII-related antigen (VIIIR:Ag) was negative in this cell line, immunocytochemical staining for the lectin Ulex europaeus I (UEA-I), and PHM5 (anti-human endothelium as well as glomerular epithelium monoclonal antibody) was positive, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity was also demonstrated. In addition, ECV304 displayed negativity for alkaline and acid phosphatase and for the epithelial marker keratin. All of these findings suggest that ECV304 cells originated from umbilical vein endothelial cells by spontaneous transformation. Ultrastructurally, no viruslike particles have been detected intracellularly. Nude mouse tumorigenicity and rabbit cornea tests were both positive. This is a report on a novel case of phenotypic alteration of normal venous endothelial cells of human origin in vitro, and generation of a transformant with indefinite life spans. This line may be useful in studies of some physiologically active factors available for medical use.
4296992|The possible role of extracellular calcium (
4295942|Mouse epidermal keratinocytes (MK cells) were grown as replicating subcultures at clonal density, in a serum-free, low calcium basal medium supplemented with seven different growth factors (Bertolero et al., Exp. Cell. Res. 155:64-80, 1984). This serum-free system was used to investigate the activity of fetal bovine serum (FBS) and of serum-derived factors on the growth and differentiation of MK cells. Unfractionated, whole FBS inhibited growth and induced terminal differentiation of normal MK cells. The growth inhibitory activity was considerably reduced by passing whole FBS over a resin (Chelex) to remove Ca
4296722|We have previously reported that pericytes derived from retinal and brain microvessels aggregate into nodules soon after reaching confluence. Nodule formation involves a reorganization of the cells resulting in the presence of sparse cells, confluent monolayers, multilayers, sprouts, and nodules within the same culture dish. Extracellular calcification occurs only within the nodules, demonstrating that pericytes are capable of undergoing osteogenic differentiation in culture and that this differentiation is related to nodule formation. Using immunofluorescence we have now studied the distribution of laminin, type IV collagen, type X collagen, and tenascin in pericyte cultures during nodule formation. These matrix macromolecules were also identified by a combination of biochemical techniques, including Northern blot hybridization, immunoblotting and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A molecule that seems to be related to type X collagen was demonstrated by the presence of a pepsin-resistant, collagenase-sensitive polypeptide of molecular weight approximately 45 kDa. The production of laminin, type X-related collagen, and tenascin by pericytes has not been previously reported. Our results suggest that the synthesis or distribution or both of these molecules is dependent on the state of pericyte differentiation. The expression of laminin, type IV collagen, and type X-related collagen was maximal in multilayer areas, sprouts, and nodules. Tenascin appeared homogeneously distributed in monolayer and multilayer areas; when calcified nodules were present, the anti-tenascin serum preferentially decorated a discrete area circumscribing the nodules. Tenascin and type X collagen have been found transiently in vivo preceding calcification; their possible role in this process is not known. Our results also suggest an association between laminin, type IV collagen, and calcification. The in vitro experimental system described here may help to clarify the role of matrix macromolecules in the calcification process.
4296472|A twenty fold multiplication per twenty days of caper was achieved by culturing nodal shoot segments in the presence of BAP (
20171405| Using a preparation of highly purified, adult rat Leydig cells and conditions of culture which we found to optimize testosterone production during 24 h, we sought to maintain optimal testosterone production for 3 d. Leydig cells cultured on Cytodex 3 beads at 19% O in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium-Ham's nutrient mixture F12 (1:1; vol/vol) containing 0.5 mg/ml total bovine lipoproteins (&lt;1.222 g/ml) with maximal luteinizing hormone (LH) stimulation failed to maintain a constant amount of testosterone for 3 d. These cells did however secrete a similar amount of total delta 4-3-ketosteroids on each of the 3 culture d, indicating that their viability was preserved. The predominance of progesterone and 170H-progesterone relative to the amount of androstenedione found on Days 2 and 3 suggested that the activity of the cytochrome P C-hydroxylase-C,-lyase enzyme in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum was diminished when Leydig cells were maintained in our primary culture for longer than 24 h. Decreasing the oxygen tension of the cultures from 19 to 5%, and decreasing the concentration of LH used to stimulate the Leydig cells from 100 to 0.1 ng/ml, were necessary to achieve maintenance of testosterone secretion without accumulation of other delta 4-3-ketosteroids during a 3-d period. Cells cultured in this fashion were still able to respond to maximal LH stimulation during Day 3, producing as much testosterone as if cultured for 24 h on Day 1 at 19% O with 100 ng/ml LH stimulation. 
4295844|The relationship between transcriptional activity and gene association with the nuclear matrix has been investigated in Drosophila melanogaster. The nuclear matrix of Schneider cell line 2 of Drosophila was isolated and observed to conform to expected dimensions in phase contrast and scanning electron microscopic preparations. This structure contains proteins that appear similar to the intact nucleus. High salt extracted nuclei digested with DNase I released 98% of the DNA, whereas digestion with Eco RI released a maximum of 80%. These and other nuclease digestions indicate that satellite DNA as well as some unique sequence DNA are bound to the nuclear matrix. A constitutively transcribed actin gene was enriched in the nuclear matrix bound DNA. Two other nontranscribed genes, a muscle-specific actin gene and the myosin heavy chain gene, showed no enrichment in nuclear matrix DNA.
4296510|Trophoblast is the major functional cell type of the placenta. The purpose of this study was to devise a means to isolate trophoblast cells from the monkey placenta and to examine their capacity to differentiate in vitro. Methods originally devised for the isolation of human cytotrophoblast cells produced poor yields and a low degree of purity when applied to the near-term rhesus monkey placenta. However, a procedure has been developed which allows the isolation of a cell population consisting of more than 95% cytotrophoblast based on intermediate filament immunocytochemistry. The cells sedimented between densities of 1.040 and 1.053 g/ml on continuous Percoll density gradient centrifugation. When maintained in culture the cells adhered and formed aggregates of mononuclear cells by 24 h. By 5 d in culture, immunofluorescent staining using antidesmoplakin and antinuclear antibodies revealed that most colonies consisted of large multinucleated masses similar to syncytiotrophoblast. These results demonstrate trophoblast cells from monkey placental villi can be isolated with a high degree of purity and undergo morphologic differentiation in vitro. This preparation should enable investigators to study many functional characteristics of these cells throughout gestation.
4295832|A new synthetic medium (referred to as GC
4296824|The fetal respiratory distress syndrome is due, in part, to the presence of abundant pre-type II alveolar epithelial cells that have not yet differentiated into mature type II cells. Studies of this syndrome have been limited somewhat by the lack of an adequate in vitro model. In the present study we immortalized pre-type II cells by infecting primary isolates obtained from fetal rat lung with a retroviral construct expressing the adenoviral 12S E1A gene product. The immortalized pre-type II cells retained many of the ultrastructural features typical of pre-type II cells in primary culture, most notably lamellar bodies were not detected and the cells contained abundant stores of glycogen, expressed cytokeratin filaments, and bound the lectin Maclura pomifera. Karyotyping revealed that the cells are diploid. Growth studies demonstrate log phase growth in the presence of serum with a markedly decreased growth rate shortly after the cells reach confluence. Exposure of the immortalized pre-type II cells to hydrocortisone and dibutryl cAMP resulted in the induction of lamellar bodylike organelles; however, these cells did not secrete surfactant or express surfactant protein A. These cells may serve as useful models for some in vitro studies of fetal type II cell maturation or the fetal respiratory distress syndrome, or both.
4295872|Cell cultures of epithelial-like human amniocytes were infected with simian virus 40 (SV40) and Kirsten sarcoma virus (KSV) in various sequential orders, and tested for agar growth, chromosome abnormalities, and tumorigenesis in the nude mouse assay. We observed that regardless of the order in which the viruses were introduced, the doubly infected cells always exhibited the typical SV40 premalignantly transformed phenotype before changing to the malignant phenotype. All doubly transformed cells from different cell donors produced tumors in adult and suckling nude athymic mice, classified as poorly differentiated sarcomas. Infection with SV40 alone conferred extended life span and accelerated growth without the malignant capability of tumor production. Kirsten sarcoma virus alone produced only focal cell alterations with no change in cell longevity or tumorigenesis. Chromosome studies of the premalignant and malignant cells from one cell donor did not reveal any significant clonal development for marker chromosomes in either cell line. Chromosome 12, which carries the homologous cellular oncogene to KSV, had no increase in aberrations in the malignant cells. Chromosome 8 was most often involved in aberrations, and the most frequent aberration for both series was dicentric chromosomes due to telomere fusion. For other translocations the breakpoints were almost exclusively in the centromere regions. The vulnerability of telomere and centromere regions to the free virus present in these precrisis cells is discussed, and similarities in regard to types of aberrations in transfection experiments are noted.
4296792|A new approach was investigated to study the interaction between integrins and actin via intracytoplasmic proteins. Because intracellular processes are hampered by the limiting plasma membrane, we developed an in vitro model with cells perforated by a bacterial toxin, streptolysin O. The specific conditions for the use of permeabilized cells to study the intramolecular associations occurring at adhesion plaques are described. The two cell types used, HUVEC and CHO, showed that the choice of the perforation method is of great importance. After perforation of cells in a monolayer,
4296113| Digitaria sanguinalis (crabgrass) has recently been introduced as a high quality forage crop. We report here a tissue culture system showing a high level of regeneration developed to aid in a breeding program. Two morphologically distinct types of callus, compact opaque and friable translucent, were induced from leaf blade explants and mature seeds when cultured on MS medium containing 0.9 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Proline (25 mM) inhibited induction of callus but was required for continued maintenance. Plants were readily regenerated from the compact opaque callus. Selectively subcultured friable translucent callus continued to produce colony sectors of the morphogenically competent compact opaque callus when transferred to regeneration medium. Suspension cell cultures derived from callus or directly from leaf blade explants also produced regenerable callus. 
4296864|We have developed a defined method for human epidermal keratinocyte culture. The minimally supplemented basal medium supported establishment of primary cultures from neonatal foreskin in a defined environment. It also supported serial cultivation and rapid expansion of cell number. Casein replaced serum for defined cryopreservation. Cells were serially cultivated in medium containing 0.08 mM calcium. The rate of cell division however remained high after addition of 1.8 mM calcium. The particulate transglutaminase activity of the cultures was low at confluence, even in the presence of 1.88 mM calcium, indicating an enrichment of the basal cell population. Culture with small amounts (0.3%) of chelated serum increased particulate transglutaminase activity approximately 2.2-fold in low calcium cultures and approximately 3.5-fold in high calcium cultures. A gradual reduction in growth rate of serum-treated cultures upon serial cultivation also indicated a depletion of cells with basal cell character. Bovine hypothalamic extract and cholera toxin were able to avert, in part, the differentiation-promoting effects of serum. Keratinocytes serially cultivated in the defined medium maintained the ability to develop normally into a morphologically differentiated epidermis.
4296157|The role of various iron chelators on the multiplication of mouse hybridoma cells in an albumin-free, transferrin-deficient defined medium was investigated. Fe(III)-dihydroxyethylglycine, Fe(III)-glycylglycine, Fe(III)-ethylenediamine-N,N'-dipropionic acid, or Fe(III)-iminodiacetic acid supported the excellent growth of the cells. In addition, the growth of the iron-starved cells, which had been preincubated in a protein-, iron- and chelator-free defined medium, restored rapidly when the medium was supplemented with holotransferrin, ferric iron, and chelator compared to that when supplemented with holotransferrin, but without iron and chelator. The results suggest that such chelators modulate a progression of transferrin cycle in the presence of transferrin and ferric iron. An alternative explanation is that there is a decrease in generation of iron-catalyzed free radicals.
4296973|A series of experiments have been carried out to identify those factors that affect the number of altered populations detected in control, nonexposed, and radiation-exposed primary cultures of rat tracheal epithelial cells. The number of colony forming cells per milliliter of culture medium and the frequency with which the culture medium is changed seemed to be the most critical factors regulating the emergence of induced and spontaneous variants. Increasing the number of cells plated so that of colony forming cells increase from 25 to 200 per ml, regardless of the dish size used, was associated with a 200-fold decline in the frequency of spontaneous variants and a 40-fold decline in X-ray-induced variants. Increasing the interval between medium changes from 3 to 7 days after the first week of culture was associated with a 10-fold decrease in the frequency of spontaneous variants. The frequency of spontaneous and induced variants is markedly less dependent on culture density at densities between 150 and 600 colony forming cells per ml. The type of medium used to establish primary cultures had little effect on the frequency of variants detected. Similarly, when assays were performed at densities in excess of 150 colony forming cells per ml the frequency of spontaneous and x-ray-induced variants was not affected by the absence of epidermal growth factor, increased levels of calcium (final concentration, 0.8 mM), or by removal of pyruvate from the selection medium.
4296391|This study was conducted to identify a defined, serum-free culture medium that supports cell dependent contraction of a collagen lattice. Collagen lattices were found to contract in cultures containing human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF) or rabbit aortic smooth muscle (RASM) cells incubated in serum-free medium. HFF and RASM cells required different supplements to contract the collagen gels. HFF cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's (DME) medium supplemented with bovine serum albumin (BSA) and either endothelial cell growth supplement (EnGS), insulin (In), or platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) supported collagen lattice contraction. Replacement of BSA with casein without the addition of other supplements improved contraction. In contrast, RASM cells supplemented with BSA, EnGS, In, and PDGF were able to contract collagen gels only minimally. Similar to HFF, RASM cells cultured in DME medium supplemented with casein, but without the addition of other supplements, contracted collagen lattices. HFF-mediated collagen contraction was inhibited by prostaglandins E
4296827| A floating collagen matrix culture of neonatal rat heart myocardial cells shows rhythmic contractions which are dependent on localization of ceDs, cell density, and collagen concentration. The rhythmic contractions of the collagen matrix can be registered by a device scanning the optical density at the edge of the gel and have been observed over a temperature range from 9 to 40 C. The results of the present study underline the usefulness of myocardial cell populated collagen matrixes for studies on coherent contractions of heart cell cultures. 
4295830|A hamster trachea organ culture system was utilized to evaluate quantitatively the effects of a strain of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) and culture supernatants of the same strain on ciliary activity. Tracheal explants were maintained in organ culture for 96 to 144 h and ciliary activity was observed daily with an inverted microscope. Explants continuously exposed to a strain of NTHI had a progressive decline in ciliary activity which was significantly lower than uninfected controls evaluated concomitantly by 48 h of exposure and thereafter. Histologic studies revealed a progressive degeneration of mucosal cells and exfoliation of ciliated cells. Scanning electron microscopy showed little adherence of NTHI to the mucosal surface. Sterile broth cultures of NTHI and supernatants of organ cultures infected with the same NTHI strain had no adverse effect on ciliary activity. Infected tracheal explants treated with ampicillin 24, 48, or 72 h after continuous bacterial challenge had no significant decline in ciliary activity compared to controls. The lack of adherence and the histologic changes observed when hamster trachea cultures were infected with NTHI suggested a toxin might mediate the damage observed. Broth and organ culture supernatants, however, produced no damage. Therefore, further studies are needed to determine the role, if any, of a toxin in the production of damage to hamster tracheal explants by NTHI.
4296707|Growth of normal and malignant mouse mammary epithelial cells (MMEC) on a biomatrix of substrate-attached material from 3T3-L1 preadipocytes was evaluated to devise culture conditions that are suitable for transformation studies but do not involve embedding cells in a gel. The biomatrix was prepared as described by Levine and Stockdale (18), and serum-free medium contained bovine serum albumin, insulin, progesterone, prolactin, and linoleic acid. Each cell type produced a distinctive pattern of colony architecture in this culture system. Cells from virgin mice (vMMEC) usually formed elaborate, three-dimensional structures resembling ducts and alveoli; cells from pregnant mice (pMMEC) grew as flat monolayers; and tumor cells grew in multilayered clusters. Cell growth was monitored by an assay for succinate dehydrogenase. Similar growth rates were found through Day 8 in cultures of vMMEC and D2 carcinoma cells. Growth of vMMEC slowed thereafter, whereas tumor cells typically continued growing through Day 14 to 18. Increase in cell number during 18 days in culture was 3-, 7-, 9-, and 11-fold for cells from pregnant and virgin mice, BALB/cfC3H and D2 carcinomas, respectively. The percent cells in S phase on Day 2 of culture was 9% for pMMEC, 4 to 11% for BALB/cfC3H tumor cells, 20% for vMMEC, and 24% for D2 tumor cells. Thus, this culture system promotes extended growth of MMEC and offers several advantages over embedding cells in a collagen gel. It may therefore be applicable to in vitro transformation studies with MMEC.
4296028|Phenotypic changes (increased longevity, decreased growth factor requirements, altered cell surface features, growth in semisolid agarose, and SV40 T antigen expression) suggesting in vitro transformation were displayed by human normal colon mucosal epithelial cells transfected with pSV3gpt, a pBR322 recombinant containing the SV40 "early" T antigen coding region and the dominant selectable marker bacterial gene, xanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase. In contrast, control cultures which received neither DNA nor the recombinant pSV2gpt (which is identical to pSV3gpt but lacks the SV40 T antigen region) were not phenotypically altered.
4296158|Rat liver epithelial cell lines, growing in a serum-supplemented medium, synthesize and secrete into the culture medium the third component of complement (C
4296411|Porcine cerebral microvascular (PCMV) endothelial cell cultures and pericyte-endothelial cell cocultures were established and the self-organizational properties of the cells were examined in various culture conditions. Cultured PCMV endothelial cells were characterized by the capacity to produce prostacyclin in response to bradykinin. Cultured PCMV pericytes were identified with a smooth muscle actin-specific stain. PCMV endothelial cells organized into cord structures when left in culture for several weeks without passage. Lumina were observed in cross sections of these cords and appeared to form through a process of cell-selective autolysis. PCMV endothelial cells required three dimensions for self-organization, forming suspended cords in planes that either intersected or paralleled the culture vessel floor. After formation, suspended cords continued to exhibit a morphologic plasticity punctuated by the coordinated migrations of PCMV endothelial cells en masse. Sequential propagation of PCMV endothelial cell monolayers and development of suspended capillarylike cords recurred cyclically when cells were left in culture without passage for several weeks. Cord development was also observed in PCMV pericyte-endothelial cell cocultures with large proportions of pericytes. However, pericytes were not located in cross sections of suspended cords formed in coculture. Apparently, in some conditions of PCMV coculture, populations of PCMV endothelial cells and pericytes segregate. Retina-derived growth factor (RDGF) promoted this cell-type segregation and the subsequent formation of suspended cords in PCMV cocultures, although its exact mode of action is unclear. These results indicate that cultured cerebral microvascular endothelial cells and pericytes have capacities for complex, temporal self-organization that varies according to culture conditions.
20171548| A novel method of synchronizing monolayer tissue culture cells is described. By limiting the period of attachment of trypsinized cells and the subsequent removal of unattached cells a G population of cells is isolated. Evaluation of the degree of synchrony has been carried out by measuring the labeling index and incorporation of [H]thymidine into DNA. Further conformation of synchrony, as well as a comparison with synchrony by isoleucine deprivation, was obtained by flow cytometry. The expected peak in DNA synthesis rate following limited attachment was observed. This peak becomes more prominent and shifts to earlier times with shorter attachment intervals. The synchronization method described is simple, rapid, yields a substantial number of cells, and is applicable to many cell lines. 
4296600|The interactions of vascular smooth muscle cells with growth modulators and extracellular matrix molecules may play a role in the proliferation and migration of these cells after vascular injury and during the development of atherosclerosis. Time-lapse cinematographic techniques have been used to study cell division and migration of bovine carotid artery smooth muscle cells in response to matrix molecules consisting of solubilized basement membrane (Matrigel) and type I collagen. When cells were grown adjacent to Matrigel, both migration and cell proliferation were increased and interdivision time was shortened. Cells grown in Matrigel or in type I collagen had markedly reduced migration rates but interdivision time was not altered. Further, diffusible components of the Matrigel were found to stimulate proliferation of the smooth muscle cells.
4296740|Normal epithelial cells from the rat mammary gland proliferated in culture when plated with lethally irradiated cells of the LA7 rat mammary tumor line. Proliferation of the normal rat cells occured as the LA7 cells slowly died from the radiation. By labeling the cultures with
4296384|For the past 60 years, fundamental discoveries in eukaryotic biology using mammalian cell cultures have been significant but modest relative to the enormous potential. Combined with advances in technologies of cell and molecular biology, mammalian cell culture technology is becoming a major, if not essential tool, for fundamental discovery in eukaryotic biology. Reconstruction of the milieu for cells has progressed from simple salt solutions supporting brief survival of tissues outside the body to synthesis of the complete set of structurally defined nutrients, hormones and elements of the extracellular matrix needed to reconstruct complex tissues from cells. The isolation of specific cell types in completely defined environments reveals the true complexity of the mammalian cell and its environment as a dynamic interactive physiological unit. Cell cultures provide the tool for detection and dissection of the mechanism of action of cellular regulators and the genes that determine individual aspects of cell behavior. The technology underpins advances in virology, somatic cell genetics, endocrinology, carcinogenesis, toxicology, pharmacology, hematopoiesis and immunology, and is becoming a major tool in developmental biology, complex tissue physiology and production of unique mammalian cell-derived biologicals in industry.
4296478|CEM-C7, a human leukemic CD4+ T-lymphocyte cell line and three of its subclones, CEM-4R4, CEM-3R43, and ICR-27, previously cultured in a medium supplemented with 5 to 10% fetal bovine serum, have been adapted to serum-free media. The best medium of those tested was RPMI 1640 supplemented with 5 g/ml each transferrin and insulin + 5 ng/ml sodium selenite  0.1% bovine serum albumin. While growing either with or without albumin, the several clonal lines of CEM cells displayed growth similar to serum-supplemented cultures. Cell proliferation of CEM-C7 cells cultured in both serum-free media has been sustained for 3 mo. with culture doubling times of about 25 h for both serum-supplemented and serum-free cultures (viability  90%). Cell morphology remained essentially the same in serum-free or serum containing media. The expression of CD4, a marker for T-derived lymphoid cells, was not significantly different in serum-free medium. When grown in serum-free medium, CEM-C7 cells exhibited increased steroid responsiveness as evidenced by increased glucocorticoid receptor binding sites, increased induction of glutamine synthetase, and cell lysis at lower concentrations of steroid. Receptor mutant subclones of CEM-C7, which are proven to be completely unresponsive to micromolar concentrations of dexamethasone when grown in serum-supplemented medium, become partially sensitive to the hormone after growth in defined medium. The increased sensitivity of CEM-C7 cells and its subclones to dexamethasone in serum-free medium returned to previous levels when these cells were recultured in serum-containing medium. Our results suggest that substances in serum influence steroid effects on these cells and that the molecular details of glucocorticoid hormone action may be pursued more precisely in a clearly defined culture medium.
4296014|The human fetal adrenal cortex is one of the largest fetal organs and synthesizes precursors for placental estrogen production as part of the feto-placental unit. The factors controlling the rapid growth of the human fetal adrenal cortex during the second and third trimesters are not known. Placental regulation of the growth of human fetal adrenocortical cell cultures from second trimester fetuses was studied. A placental-derived mitogenic factor (PDMF) was detected in tissue homogenates of 14 to 22 week human placentas and stimulated adrenocortical cell number and [
4295743|Single-cell-cloned cell lines have been established from primary cultures of neonatal rat mammary glands. A representative cuboidal cell line, Rama 704, shows the presence of intermediate filamental proteins keratin and vimentin, and occasional cells express milk fat globule membrane antigens on their apical surfaces. Rama 704 cells grow as a cuboidal pavement in culture and produce hemispherical blisters or domes when confluent. Noteworthy ultrastructural features are the presence of junctional complexes, desmosomes, and apical microvilli typical of epithelia. Cells seeded within floating collagen gels will form a variety of multicellular outgrowths, some of which are ductlike in morphology and are composed of polarized cells surrounding a central lumen. The cuboidal cells produce elongated cells under conditions of high cell density and also when cells float off collagen gels and reattach to the plastic substrate. The former elongated cells have been cloned and three cell lines established: Rama 710, 711, and 712; the latter uncloned elongated cells are termed Rama 704E. The cloned elongated cells show an increase in the amounts of basement membrane proteins deposited, a lack of junctional complexes and microvilli, and an increase in the amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum compared with their parental cells. Rama 704E cells show an enhanced deposition of basement membrane proteins and increased amounts of actin in the cytoplasm over the elongated cell lines and contain microfilaments and pinocytotic vesicles similar to those seen in myoepithelial cells. All the elongated cells and lines fail to form ductlike structures within collagen gels. None of the cell lines form tumors in syngeneic rats although they all produce some tumors in nude mice, which are composed of cords of epithelioid cells and spindle cells in varying proportions. In addition, some of the Rama 704 tumors contain rhab-domyoblastic elements that penetrate the host fat pad. This is the first report of the isolation and characterization of a stable cuboidal cell line from a neonatal rat mammary gland. The Rama 704 cell line shows morphological and biochemical features of mammary epithelial cells and converts at high cell density to elongated cells that have also been cloned.
4295806|A method has been developed for growing confluent primary cultured monolayers of guinea pig gastric mucous cells suitable for in vitro electrophysiological, transport, and pharmacological studies. Isolated mucous cells were enriched on a one-step Percoll density gradient and plated on fibronectin-coated plastic dishes or in small cups with holes containing glutaraldehyde-fixed Vitrogen gels. These cups were designed to fit in Ussing chambers. Mucous cells attached, proliferated, and formed confluent monolayers in 3 d. The low cuboidal cells contained periodic acid Schiff-positive mucous granules that were negative by Bowie and indirect immunofluorescent staining for pepsinogen. Electron microscopy revealed polarized mucous cells with microvilli, mucous granules, microfilaments, small mitochondria, some vacuoles, and junctional complexes that excluded wheat germ agglutinin-peroxidase. No basal lamina was present. Monolayers could be maintained for over 2 wk but subcultures were not made. The cultures were virtually free of fibroblasts. Epithelial sheets produced by this simple and rapid method can be used for electrophysiological, ion transport, and pharmacological studies.
4296195|A primary culture of serous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary was used to study the expression of intermediate filament proteins and the deposition of basal lamina proteins. It was found that cells grown on type I and IV collagens or in collagen gels failed to express vimentin, which was readily demonstrable in cultures of the same cells grown on plastic or glass. Furthermore cells grown in collagen gels formed colonics demonstrating a cystic architecture. Unlike what is commonly observed on glass or plastic, where laminin and fibronectin are deposited as disorganized fibrils in the extracellular space, in or on collagen these proteins appear solely at the interface between the epithelial cells and matrix. The results suggest that the extracellular matrix influences the cytoskeletal organization of the intermediate filaments and determines cell polarity. They confirm that collagen substrates permit epithelial cell cultures to progress toward a more differentiated state.
4296654|Alterations in proteolytic capabilities have been associated with abnormalities in the aged eye lens, but in vivo tests of this hypothesis have been difficult to pursue. To simulate aging, we cultured cells from an 8-yr-old rabbit to early (population-doubling level 20 to 30) and late (population-doubling level >125) passage. Long-lived ($t_{1/2} > 10 h$) and short-lived ($t_{1/2} > 10 h$) intracellular proteins were labeled with
4296184|The purpose of this study was to develop a nonenzymatic method of isolating adult islets using atrophied pancreata from copper-deficient rats and to analyze their morphologic characteristics and behavior in culture. This unusual model of isolation was studied because islets remain intact in the course of dietary copper deficiency while the acinar glandular component of the pancreas undergoes selective atrophy and lipomatosis. Small fragments containing islets were readily microdissected from atrophied glands and placed in culture. Within 24 h the fragments congealed into small irregular-to spherical-shaped masses within which the darker profile of islets could be distinguished. Within a period of 3 to 5 d, islet tissue began to bud from the lipocytic mass until by Day 7 spherical aggregates of intact islet tissue separated from the residual fragments. Subsequent to further in vitro treatment, these islets could be maintained as free viable spherical masses if periodically agitated, as attached stationary islets which developed monolayer growth if left undisturbed and as aggregated masses of islet tissue forming megaislets if combined in small groups. Grouped islets treated with actinomycin D and cycloheximide did not exhibit aggregation when incubated with these inhibitors. This suggests that megaislet formation was an active process requiring protein-RNA synthesis rather than passive clumping or aggregation that can accompany metabolically altered or dying islets undergoing cellular shedding and adhesion. Immunohistochemical localization demonstrated that insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide-immunoreactive cell types were present within the islets derived from this technique. The cellular topography of these islets was not unlike that described by others for islets cultured from enzymatic isolation. This culture model may serve as a resource for mature, viable islets isolated without mechanical or enzymatic disaggregation which can have attenuating effects on islet function.
4296069| A highly efficient method is described for obtaining proliferative epithelial cells from adult rat livers for the reproducible establishment of liver epithelial cell strains. When cells were isolated from livers of 10- to 15-wk-old male Fischer 344 rats by a collagenase-perfusion method, collected by centrifugation at 50 xg for 5 min, and cultured in Williams' medium E containing fetal bovine serum and dexamethasone, colonies of epithelial cells different in size and morphology from hepatocytes were obtained. Sequential perfusion with collagenase and dispase yielded numerous epithelial cell colonies. When isolated cells were fractionated by differential centrifugation, the great majority of hepatocytes were sedimented at 50 xg for 1 min, whereas many non-hepatocytic cells remained in the supernatant and could be sedimented by a second centrifugation at 50 xg for 5 min. Culture of the two fractions revealed that almost all the epithelial cell colonies were derived from cells in the non-hepatocytic cell fraction. The epithelial cells were cytochemically negative for -glutamyl transpeptidase activity, whereas an increase in the activity was detected in hepatocytes with duration in culture. Ultrastructural characteristics of hepatocytes were not found in the cells of newly established cell strains. These results suggest that adult rat liver epithelial cells propagable in culture were derived from a cell type other than the hepatocyte. 
4296235| A quantitative evaluation of lectin binding to adult rat hepatocyte cell surfaces was done using cells isolated by two different collagenase perfusion methodologies and cultured as monolayers with two different tissue culture media formulations (protocol I vs. protocol II). The presence of -D-mannosyl and -D-glucosyl groups was detected by the binding of Concanavalin A (Con A), Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA), and Pisum sativum agglutinin (PSA) to freshly isolated cells. Furthermore, -D-galactose [Ricinus communis agglutinin (RCA)] and sialic acid residues [wheat germ (WGA)] were also found. Protocols I and II served as models for evaluation of: a) the stripping effect of collagenase separation procedures, b) the restoration in culture of collagenase-stripped sugar residues, c) the effect of the culture environment on cell viability [as measured by lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage] and the protein content of hepatocytes, and d) the presence of cell surface sugar residues as a function of culture duration. The ultrastructural morphology of freshly isolated and cultured hepatocytes was also evaluated. These studies indicated that a decline in lectin binding invariably occurred earlier than a massive leakage of LDH and a decrease in the protein content of the cells in culture. Ultrastructurally, autophagocytosis was an early phenomenon in cells isolated and cultured by protocol I, which was also inferior to protocol II regarding the preservation of hepatocyte glycocalyces. Sugar residues lost due to the colla genase-stripping effect were restored, as shown by lectin binding, within the first 24 h of culture. This stripping effect was confirmed by quantitative evaluations of lectin binding to hepatocytes in culture after an incubation with collagenase. This study shows that the binding of peroxidase-labeled lectins is a useful tool for quantitative evaluation of the sugar composition of hepatocyte cultures. 
20171437| A time-dependent redistribution of microfilaments was observed in cultured human keratinocytes using a human monoclonal autoantibody specific for myosin. Immunofluorescent staining revealed that 5 days after plating keratinocytes in either 0.1 mM or 2.0 mM Ca, myosin was distributed uniformly throughout the cytoplasm. At day 6, parallel arrays of myosin-containing microfilaments were prominent in the cell peripheries. At day 7 the microfilaments formed circumferential rings. The distribution of the microfilaments was disrupted by cytochalasin but not by colchicine, indicating that this novel distribution of myosin was not dependent on colchicine-sensitive vimentin intermediate filaments. The time-dependent redistribution of myosin was not influenced by cell population density, cell shape or cell cycle phase, except for mitotic cells in which myosin was distributed diffusely through the cytoplasm. If, as suggested by Kolega (9), microfilaments align parallel to the direction of applied tension, the redistribution of myosin-containing microfilaments in cultured keratinocytes may reflect the increased tension between cells resulting from increasing strength of cell-cell junctions over time. In sectioned human skin, myosin was localized in the peripheral cytoplasm of stratified epidermal cells. Tensions arising from the numerous desmosomal junctions between cells in vivo could account for this distribution of myosin. 
4296481|Conditions are presented for application of both bisbenzamide (Hoechst 33258) stain and a specific fluoresceinated anti-Mycoplasma hyorhinis IgG to a single cell culture preparation. This allows the same field on a slide to be viewed for presumptive diagnosis of any cell culture contaminant mycoplasma by bisbenzamide staining and for definitive diagnosis of M. hyorhinis strains using fluoresceinated antibody. The use of this method plus a cultural procedure will permit identification of the "noncultivable" M. hyorhinis strain DBS 1050.
20171552| Lung alveolar epithelial cells have been studied in a variety of laboratory animal models, and studies of human alveolar epithelial cells are important for comparison to information obtained from animal studies. Autopsy material is a source of human cells for study. Studies of human autopsy material revealed variables that negatively affected the yield of viable cells. For specimens from adults, these included death greater than 12 h before cell isolation, obvious severe lung fibrosis, longstanding metabolic disorders, and lung congestion indicated by weight of the right middle lobe greater than 150 g. Samples from children yielded significant numbers of viable cells up to 18 h after death. For 17 specimens that conformed to the above criteria, approximately 8.5  10 alveolar cells were obtained per gram of tissue (tissue weights ranged from 30 to 108 g) using a procedure involving instillation of proteases into the airways. The cells could be further fractionated, and 10 to 15% of the mixed cells obtained were type II pneumocytes. Analysis of NADPH cytochrome-c-reductase distribution in subcellular fractions provided evidence that the cells obtained were intact. Phospholipid enzyme activities and synthetic activity were within the ranges previously found in laboratory studies of freshly obtained animal lungs. These results suggest that significant numbers of viable and functional human lung cells, including type II pneumocytes, can be obtained from autopsy material. 
20171392|Stainless steel mesh supported the high density growth of anchorage dependent CHO fibroblasts without the use of a special culture system. CHO cells, designated B-9, containing an amplified genomic construct of the human gene for Mullerian Inhibiting Substance (MIS), grew to a high confluent density on stainless steel meshwork while producing substantial amounts of human recombinant MIS over a long period of time. The mesh could be easily coated with various extracellular matrix proteins, such as Laminin, Fibronectin, Collagen or Matrigel, which permitted the testing of the effects of surface modifications on cell yield and recombinant protein production. Since the amount of medium per surface area required for optimal cell growth is lower than for some large volume cell culture methods, media costs can be reduced using mesh. In addition, no special cell culture equipment or complex manipulations are required. Thus, the use of meshwork for anchorage-dependent cells can increase the efficiency of growth and decrease the cost of recombinant protein production.
4295945|Isolation and characterization of a single cell suspension from the rat mammary gland was achieved by combining selective enzymatic digestion and the mechanical agitation of a Stomacher laboratory blender with immunohistological identification of cell-specific markers. Utilizing this procedure we were able to isolate single cell suspensions of high yield (10 to 15  10
4296735| Epithelial cells were isolated from mouse endometrium and cultured on two types of extracellular matrix, namely, rat-tail collagen (type I) gels and basement membrane extract (BME) derived from the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm murine sarcoma. Cell attachment in serum-free medium during the initial 24 h after seeding was approximately twofold higher on BME compared with collagen type I. Addition of serum to the medium enhanced cell attachment on both matrices. On both collagen and BME, uterine cells grew as smooth-bordered colonies, and within a week of culture the cells became cuboidal to columnar in shape. Electron microscopy revealed the presence of apical microvilli associated with a glycocalyx, junctional complexes, tonofilaments, short strands of undilated endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi complex, and lipid droplets. However, cells on BME showed a higher degree of differentiation as assessed by occasional formation of small patches of basement membranelike structure subjacent to the flattened basal surface and formation of glandlike structures within the matrix. Proliferation of these cells as measured by radioactive thymidine incorporation into DNA was increased threefold by addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin to the medium, but was not changed by 17-estradiol. The expression of progesterone receptors by uterine epithelial cells grown on both matrices was doubled by addition of EGF and estradiol to the medium. 
20171402|We report on the discrimination of vascular smooth muscle cells and myoepithelial cells in primary cultures of human breast tissue. Breast tissue was disaggregated enzymatically and the resulting organoids seeded in monolayer culture on collagen-coated plastic in serum-free medium CDM3a. Two main types of organoids were present after enzymatic digestion. One resembled small blood vessels and the other interlobular ducts or acini of the breast gland epithelium. Within 3 to 8 d after plating the organoids migrated into typical monolayer islets. These monolayer islets were evaluated using phase contrast microscopy and further tagged with monoclonal antibodies for immunocytochemical demonstration of Factor VIII-related antigen, muscle iso-forms of actin, type IV collagen, vimentin, desmin, and keratins. It is concluded that vascular smooth muscle cells resembled myoepithelial cells by expressing vimentin filaments, depositing type IV collagen, and showing immunoreactivity to muscle iso-forms of actin. However, whereas vascular smooth muscle cells were associated with endothelial cells and sometimes expressed desmin, myoepithelial cells appeared together with luminal epithelial cells and expressed cytokeratins.
4296084|Chronic reserpine treatment of animals, an experimental model for cystic fibrosis (CF), results in generalized exocrinopathy, impaired pancreatic secretion, and decreased pancreatic content of amylase. The mechanisms of altered acinar function and decreased amylase content in both CF and the reserpine-treated rat are unknown. To examine this alteration, the rate of
4296949|The human ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) is believed responsible for over 85% of ovarian cancers, yet little is known about the normal biology of these cells. To date, culture of OSE has only been reported in media with high serum supplements. We have developed two media, one with less than 1% of serum (OSEM-1) and the other comprised of highly purified and denned materials (OSEM-2), which allow us to study OSE under relatively defined conditions. By substituting 0.05% of Pedersen's fetuin for 15% fetal bovine serum (FBS) with Medium 199/MCDB105 basal medium, the cell numbers reached 50 to 60% of those in the presence of 15% FBS over 7 days. However, over several weeks, the total number of population doublings achieved were comparable to those in 15% FBS. Addition of insulin, transferrin, ethanolamine, lipoic acid, and phosphatidylcholine to the medium with Pedersen's fetuin (OSEM-1) enhanced growth up to 20% more than in their absence. Supplementation of M199/105 with highly purified (>99%) fetuin,
4296239|Diversity exists in both the structure and function of the endothelial cells (EC) that comprise the microvasculature of different organs. Studies of EC have been aided by our ability to first isolate and subsequently establish cultures from micro vascularized tissue. After the isolation of micro vessel endothelial cells (MEC) derived from rat cerebrum, we observed morphologic differences in colonies of cells that grew in primary cultures. The morphologies ranged from a cobblestone phenotype considered typical of EC in culture to elongated and stellate cell appearances. Serially passaged cell lines were established based on two parameters: initially by growth and, second, on differences in primary colony morphology using selective weeding techniques. Each culture was examined for the presence of EC-characteristic markers which include Factor-VIII-related antigen, angiotensin-I-converting enzyme activity, collagen type IV synthesis, and PGI
4296027|We compared the effects of defined medium, fetal bovine serum (FBS) and human serum (HuS) on the growth and responses to chemotherapeutic agents of human breast cancer cells in primary culture. Normal and tumor tissues were dissociated to small aggregates and single cells and seeded onto collagen-gel-coated wells in defined medium or medium supplemented with 5% FBS or 5% HuS. In all cases examined, defined medium and medium containing HuS were superior to medium containing FBS in supporting growth of both normal and tumor cell cultures. However, cultures in defined medium showed an initial cell loss. Cells from the same tumor cultured in different media varied in their responses to chemotherapeutic agents. In light of these results, medium supplemented with HuS, which promoted attachment of these cells in culture and stimulated their growth, should be the most appropriate nutrient environment for determining the effects of therapeutic agents on cells as it most closely resembles the in vivo situation. Because there were also variations in growth rates and chemosensitivities of tumor cells cultured in different human serum samples, we suggest that optimal conditions in which to culture these cells include the serum of the patient whose tumor is removed. This serum may provide host factors that influence cell growth and interact with exogenous factors.
4296636|We investigated the influence of fetal bovine serum, complemented or otherwise with estradiol or insulin or both, on the proliferation of mammary cancer cells from long-term and primary cultures. The long-term culture corresponded to mouse MXT and MCF-7 cell lines whereas the primary culture corresponded to primitive breast cancers squashed onto histologic slides and maintained in cultures for between 12 and 48 h. Cell proliferation was evaluated by means of digital cell image analysis of Feulgen-stained nuclei. Our results show that the addition of estradiol and insulin slightly but nevertheless significantly increases the proportion of cells still living at Hour 48 of culture. Fetal bovine serum, necessary for the growth of MXT and MCF-7 mammary cells, was highly cytotoxic with respect to the primary cultures of the 20 breast cancers under study. We are now conducting new experiments using chemically defined media to study the influence of new antineoplastic compounds on primary cultures of breast cancers.
