20170522| Twenty to twenty-two days postcoitum mouse fetal pancreas organ bits were cultured on the dermal surface of irradiated pigskin as a substrate. The medium used for long term culture consisted of Eagle's Minimum Essential Medium with the addition of 10% bovine serum, 0.02 U / ml insulin, 0.025 g/ml glucagon, 3.63 g/ml hydrocortisone, 100 g/ml soybean trypsin inhibitor or 10 M atropine. When the medium lacked trypsin inhibitor or atropine but contained the three hormones, the pigskin support began to be destroyed after 2 to 4 wk in culture. Thereafter, the cultured cells could not grow and survive on the digested pigskin. When 10 M atropine was added to the medium, amylase secretion from cultured cells and destruction of pigskin were inhibited completely but pancreas cells could not grow or survive. In contrast, 100 g/ml soybean trypsin inhibitor or 10 M atropine permitted cell growth, permitted amylase secretion from the cultured acinar cells, and prevented the destruction of pigskin. Under these conditions pancreas cells migrated or grew or both from the organ bits onto the surface of the pigskin dermis and organoid aggregations formed. Hydrocortisone was needed to permit growth for more than 2 wk. Glucagon and insulin had additive effects. Light and electron microscopic observations indicated the culture of at least five kinds of cells, i.e., duct, acinar, centroacinar, endocrine, and mesenchymal. The majority of cultured cells were duct cells and acinar cells. There were few mesenchymal cells. Mouse pancreas cells were cultured for at least 12 wk by this method. 
4292132|Immunofluorescent studies showed that even after 15 days in vitro primary neonatal rat hepatocytes contained in their cytoplasm detectable amounts of different adult rat serum proteins, including fibrinogen and proalbumin. Estimation of the intensity of specific fluorescence revealed that in untreated cultures the hepatocytic content of the various exportable antigens progressively diminished between the 5th and 15th day in vitro. Treatment with cAMP (10
4292383|Pokeweed mitogen (PWM) and ricin are both lectins derived from plant seeds. They are glycoproteins and share the ability to agglutinate a variety of animal cells including erythrocytes. The effect of these two lectins on protein synthesis was studied in four long-term lymphoblastoid lines (8866 and GM1531, which are B cell lines; and CCRF/CEM and MOLT 4, which are T-cell lines). Ricin (
4292478|A culture system has been developed for long-term maintenance of rat pleural mesothelial cells. Mesothelial cells were isolated from the parietal pleura of rats and cultured in NCTC 109 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. The cell explants attached to the dish and formed a confluent monolayer of polygonal cells within 10 to 15 days. Subcultures were made in the same medium. The mean population doubling time was approximately 30 hr. The ultrastructure of the mesothelial cells in culture was studied by light and electron microscopy and was compared with that of cells obtained from submesothelial components.
4292641|We have studied the process of mammary cell transformation in vitro using a single cell clone (Clone 18) from a presumptive epithelial cell line, C57MG, derived from a normal mammary gland; a mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) host-range variant (RIII)vp4; and the potent initiating carcinogen 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA). After several serial subcultures, cells treated with virus and then with carcinogen exhibited an altered (transformed) morphology, a dramatic increase in anchorage independence, an increase in multinucleation after exposure to cytochalasin B, an enhanced ability to proliferate in low Ca
4292510| Multialveolar mammary epithelial structures have been prepared from rabbit mammary gland by treating the tissue with collagenase plus hyaluronidase. These structures synthesize milk specific fatty acids when cultured with physiological concentrations (0.05 g/ml) of prolactin in the presence of insulin and corticosterone. They have many of the advantages but few of the disadvantages of either mammary explants or primary cells in culture. For example, they are easily prepared in large numbers and respond to prolactin in culture even in the absence of serum or other tissue extracts. Because their level of organization is intermediate between that of explants and single cells, they provide a complementary system for studies on mammary differentiation. 
4291599|The morphological and chromosome characteristics of a cell line derived from a nickel sulfide-induced rhabdomyosarcoma in the Fisher strain of rats have been described. At the time of this report the cell line has undergone 59 passages and continues to exhibit the heteroploid trait and has retained the malignant properties. This cell line, which lends itself to in vitro and in vivo (in rat) cultivation and carries easily recognizable chromosome markers, may prove to be useful in further research on tumor cells.
4291577| Single geranium (Pelargonium hortorum, Bailey) cells from callus isolated originally from stem tips of virus-infected plants were grown in microculture chambers in liquid Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.1 mg per liter of -naphthalene acetic acid and 10.0 mg per liter of kinetin. Four of 1,000 of these single cells divided in the microculture chamber and produced colonies of 15 to 20 cells in 9 to 16 days. In all of the cases the plane of the first few cell divisions was at right angles to the long axis of the cells. Subsequently, one of the masses of cells obtained from a single cell, when transferred to solid Murashige and Skoog medium, established itself as a clone of callus tissue. Although the yield was low, the results were encouraging for the ultimate production of plants. These results suggested that, just as virus-free tobacco plants have been induced from single cell clones from certain tobacco species, virus-free single geranium cells may be useful to establish single cell clones from which pathogen-free geranium plants may be induced to differentiate. 
20170273|Proliferatively inactive BALB/c 3T3 mouse cells in dense cultures initiate a growth-division cycle upon exposure to fresh calf serum in a low-calcium (0.01 mM) medium. If these calcium-deprived cells are not supplied with calcium sometime during the first 10 hours after serum stimulation, they will rapidly return to a proliferatively inactive state without initiating DNA synthesis. The prereplicative development of such stimulated calcium-deprived cells appears to stop at an advanced stage, because addition of calcium as late as 10 hours after serum exposure rapidly initiates DNA synthesis, and enables the culture's DNA-synthetic activity subsequently to reach its peak value at the same time as in control cultures.
20170283| A series of human colonic epithelial cell lines have been cultured from a single patient: LS-180 the original adenocarcinoma, LS-174T a trypsinized variant, and normal colonic tissue. The malignant cells, 20 to 40 m in diameter and oval to polygonal, exhibited characteristics of normal colonic mucosal cells, namely, abundant microvilli prominent in secretory cells, and the presence of intracytoplasmic mucin vacuoles. The cultured adenocarcinoma cells, but not normal, demonstrated neoplastic properties by producing high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and by the ability to be propagated in hamster cheek pouches and in immunodeprived mice. The CEA production by the newly established line LS-180 released 900 times more CEA per cell into the culture medium and bore 30 times more cell-associated material than the established line, HT-29. These cell lines may permit detection of distinctive chemical, physiological, pharmacologic, and immunologic characteristics of neoplastic colonic cells. 
4291757|Plastic containers were found to facilitate the adaptation of a number of mammalian cell lines derived from normal tissues to growth in continuous suspension culture. Several different types of plastic materials were studied and a variety of culture vessels were designed.
4292515|Primary cell cultures of normal rabbit epidermal cells (keratinocytes) were established without the use of enzymatic techniques. Six experiments were carried out on cells from six different rabbits. When these cells were exposed to methotrexate (MTX) for 24 h at
4291648|Commercially available sera contain bacterial viruses. The possible origin of serum bacteriophages and the implication of this observation for tissue culture studies are discussed.
4291820|A thermophilic species of Chlorella was used as a model for higher eucaryotic cells in the development of a continuous dilution system for maintenance of nearly constant environmental conditions during synchronous growth of cells cultured at high concentrations. An equilibrium (isopycnic) centrifugation procedure for selection of large numbers of highly synchronous daughter cells in Ficoll density gradients was also developed. By use of these two procedures, it was possible to show that genes of both inducible and biosynthetic enzymes are continuously available for transcription during the eucaryotic cell cycle. Moreover, with programmed changes in the culture conditions during synchronous growth, it was possible to change step patterns of biosynthetic enzymes to continuous patterns and vice versa. These results, coupled with studies with inhibitors of protein and RNA synthesis, indicate that gene transcription in at least some eucaryotes is responsive to changes in the external environment throughout the cell cycle.
4291675|The preparative procedure is presented for a new, synthetic plant tissue culture medium designed specifically for the culture of excised barley embryos. The medium appears capable of supporting development of premature barley embryos with high survivability.
4292835|As part of an effort to optimize conditions required for the complete maturation of muscle cells in vitro, we have investigated the effects of the antibiotics penicillin, streptomycin, and Fungizone (amphotericin B) on the development of cultured chick embryo skeletal muscle. It is shown that even low dosages of streptomycin, but not penicillin or Fungizone, retard protein synthesis and accumulation in these cultures. Myosin accumulation was also reduced and the appearance of striations in fused cells was delayed in myotubes formed in medium containing streptomycin. Additional data suggest that this overall retardation of myogenesis is due to the influence of streptomycin on maturing myotubes rather than early proliferation and cell fusion. These results are discussed with regard to recent efforts to promote the full maturation of muscle cells grown in culture.
4292479|A method was developed for the in vitro study of rodent urinary bladders. The method consists of everting and distending the urinary bladder in a manner to allow exposure of the luminal surface of the urothelium during in vitro incubation while maintaining the integrity of the structure and morphology of the bladder. A technique for selectively removing the urothelium with SDS buffer for biochemical analysis was described. Incorporation of
4292847| A cell line from the Walker carcinosarcoma 256 of the rat has been established in suspension culture in medium with 5% bovine calf serum for over 350 generations, with an average population doubling time of 17 h, a plating efficiency of 56%, a colony forming efficiency of 32%, and a good capacity to form colonies in soft agar. The cells are morphologically indistinguishable from those in the solid tumor and ascites as checked by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. The karyotype is characterized by a modal number of 65 chromosomes and by the presence of a marker metacentric chromosome. The cells express thymidine kinase, -glutamyl transpeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase; are agglutinable by concanavalin A; and can be synchronized by the triple thymidine block. They induce primary tumors, both subcutaneously (solid) and intraperitoneally (ascitic), in the rat; are able to metastasize upon injection by the tail vein; and invade the chorioallantoic membrane of the chick embryo. Cells in suspension can be transferred to monolayers, considerably decreasing their tumorigenicity without affecting the other parameters studied, and can be switched back to suspension culture. DNA-mediated transfection showed that DNA from these cells can transform the NIH-3T3 line. Upon growth of the monolayers in a BrdUr-containing medium, a sub-line was established that was cloned into a thymidine kinase-deficient line unable to grow in HAT medium and with properties otherwise similar to those of the parental wild type cells. 
4291807|A contaminant belonging to the genus Leptospira was detected in different cell lines. This organism was isolated and identified as Leptospira biflexa, a saprophytic species commonly inhabiting fresh waters. The source of this contaminant was not ascertained.
4292362|Four lymphoid cell lines, presumably recent derivatives from non-neoplastic human tonsils, were identified in actuality as established Burkitt lymphoma and lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCL) when tested by chromosome banding and typing for HLA antigens. Additionally, the morphology, growth characteristics, tumorigenicity, expression of Epstein-Barr virus antigens and surface membrane immunoglobulins (SmIg) of the four lymphoid cell lines confirmed the correct identifications. In determining the possibility of cross contamination, the most reliable criteria for the identification of lymphoid cell lines were found to be HLA antigenic profile, karyotype, cellular morphology, and growth characteristics.
20170483|Virus distribution patterns and ultrastructural changes in soybean callus cells after infection with the type, or bean strain, of southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV) were observed. Calli grown in liquid Linsmaier and Skoog (LS) medium were inoculated with SBMV and incubated in fresh LS medium. Calli were sampled at 5, 10, 15, and 20 d after inoculation and examined by transmission electron microscopy. Five days after inoculation, viruslike particles (VLP) measuring 22 to 27 nm in d were observed in the cytoplasm. The particles formed loose aggregates with some tendency to associate in regular patterns. By the 10th d after infection, particles were observed in the vacuoles in similar loose arrangements. Viruslike particles were readily identified in vacuoles because of the absence of ribosomes. Crystalline aggregations of VLP were found from Day 10 to Day 20 in the cytoplasm only. Five days after inoculation particles similar to the VLP observed in the cytoplasm also were present in nuclei. Other cytopathic effects were noted, particularly several types of inclusion bodies. These observations differ considerably from reports of the type strain in intact bean plant tissues in the frequent occurrence of VLP in vacuoles and virus crystals in cytoplasm of soybean callus infected with the same strain of virus.
20170261|The FL-74 cell, a feline lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a tumor induced by leukemia virus, grows equally well in static suspension culture (plastic T-flask or silicone treated glass bottles) or in spinner culture. No growth was observed in unsiliconized glass bottles. Although feline leukemia virus production was nearly the same in FL-74 grown in each of the above types of vessel, the expression of the feline oncornavirus membrane associated antigen (FOCMA), as determined by membrane immunofluorescence, was more intense and more complete on cells grown in static suspension. Moreover, higher fluorescent antibody titer endpoints were observed with cells from static suspension cultures than with cells from spinner cultures. FL-74 cells grown in spinner culture, when subjected to partial synchrony by cold block or by deprivation of essential amino acids (arginine and/or isoleucine) for 12 hr, achieved a membrane fluorescent pattern for FOCMA similar to cells grown in static suspension. It is proposed that the expression of FOCMA on the cell membrane surface is cell-cycle dependent, and that the rate at which a cell passes through the cell cycle determines the pattern and intensity of the fluorescence of the cell membrane.
20170454|The effect of rat serum on serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT) activity and indole synthesis in monolayer cultures of neonatal rat pineal glands was examined. The addition of 5% rat serum to these cultures resulted in stimulation of NAT activity equal to that obtained with optimal concentrations of the adrenergic agonist norepinephrine (NE). Rat serum also increased the synthesis of both N-acetylserotonin and melatonin from tryptophan. Stimulation of NAT activity by rat serum was partially blocked by metoprolol and propranolol, but not by phentolamine or butoxamine. The serum factor responsible for the stimulation was stable to both freezing and boiling. No significant amounts of epinephrine, norepinephrine, or dopamine were detected in the serum.
20170377|A series of intraspecific, interspecific and interorder somatic cell cybrids and hybrids have been prepared by fusions in which one of the parents contained the cytoplasmically inherited marker for chloramphenicol (CAP) resistance. A clear relationship has been established between the expression of the CAP-resistant (CAP-R) determinants in the fusion products and the genetic homology of the parents. With increased genetic divergence, the acceptability of the CAP-R mitochondria decreased. Intraspecific cybrids and hybrids of the same strain were stable for the CAP-R marker, while those between strains were stable only in CAP. Intergeneric mouse-hamster cybrids occurred at a high frequency but were unstable in CAP, while CAP suppressed hybrid formation 100-fold. Interorder cybrids (CAP-R human  CAP-S mouse) occurred either at a moderate frequency and were stable or at a low frequency and were unstable in CAP. Interorder hybrids could only be formed by challenging HAT-selected hybrids with CAP or by direct selection in ouabain and CAP. Reciprocal interorder crosses between CAP-R mouse and CAP-S human cells were unsuccessful. Interspecific cybrids contain only the chromosomes of the CAP-S parent. Interspecific hybrids selected directly in CAP segregated the chromosomes of the CAP-S parent, while hybrids selected in HAT and then CAP segregated those of the CAP-R parent. The mitochondrial DNA(mtDNA) of all mouse-human cybrids and most HAT and then CAP-selected hybrids contain only the mtDNA of the CAP-S mouse parent. However, preliminary evidence suggests that one of these hybrids contains both mouse and human mtDNA sequences.
4292564|Smooth muscle cells (SMC) were cultured from atherosclerotic plaques and uninvolved arteries to determine if differences exist between growth characteristics or ultrastructure of the cultured cells. Eighteen aortic punch biopsies provided the uninvolved tissue, and 58 carotid plaques provided the atherosclerotic tissue. Eighty percent of the samples yielded viable cultured cells, which reached a maximum population doubling time during log phase growth of 72 h (seeding
4291619|The amino acid requirements of strain L-M mouse cells grown in a chemically defined medium (2X Eagle) containing only the 13 essential amino acids (EAA) were investigated. Medium and acid hydrolysate samples were analyzed for amino acid content by the method of ion exchange chromatography. The extent of utilization of the EAA differed; e.g. after 120 hr of cell growth without medium change, glutamine was exhausted from the medium; methionine, leucine, isoleucine, cystine, arginine, and valine were depleted 60 to 80%; other EAA were used to lesser extents. Although the EAA were used in excess of their requirements for protein synthesis, a correlation could generally be made between utilization and protein amino acid composition. Glutamine appeared to be a growth-limiting factor. Use of
4292604|Two epithelial cell lines were established, one from adult C3H mouse and one from adult Fischer rat ventral prostate. These cell lines were obtained from explant cultures, using Ham's F12 medium supplemented with HEPES, insulin, testosterone, hydrocortisone, epidermal growth factor, and 7.5% fetal bovine serum. A low concentration of trypsin and EDTA in Ca
4292123|Two cell lines derived from primary human renal-cell cancers (RCC) have been established and characterized. Cell line 786-O has been in culture for longer than 1 year and has been subcultured more than 50 times. It has a doubling time of 45 hr and a hypertriploid karyotype and possesses a Y chromosome. Cell line 769-P also has been in culture for longer than 1 year. It has been subcultured 50 times and has a doubling time of 35 hr and a hypodiploid karyotype. Cells from both lines are epithelial, and they produce tumors in the cheek pouches of immunosuppressed hamsters. Neither cell line is contaminated with Mycoplasma. Cells of the two lines can be distinguished from HeLa cells both by their karyotypes and by the mobility patterns of their isoenzymes of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
4292587|A new method for the in vitro culture of entire, intact tracheas from adult guinea pigs is described. Matrix-embed/perfusion (MEP) culture is based on an immobilization of the tissue in nutrient agar. The tubular piece of agar-embedded organ was contained in a special perfusion block with two wells for liquid medium at either end. When incubated on a rocker platform, liquid medium flows through the trachea and supplies oxygen and nutrients. In this configuration, tracheas maintain near-normal metabolism (ATP content and dehydrogenase activity), structure (as determined by light and electron microscopy), and function (ciliary motion). Tissues could be maintained in vitro in a normal state for at least 4 wk, with reduced ciliary motion and cell metabolism detectable for at least 6 wk. Agar-embedded tissues from the MEP cultures were nearly identical to those cultivated with standard tracheal ring explant techniques. Tracheas in the MEP cultures were infected with Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Attachment was neuraminidase-sensitive. Mycoplasma attachment was lowest on the epithelium along the dorsal ridge, but was uniform along the length of the trachea. Ciliostasis and cytonecrosis induced by M. pneumoniae was dose dependent. The matrix-embed/perfuse technique appears to have considerable potential for several types of in vitro studies on trachea or other tubular organs.
4292201|DNA synthesis, mitotic activity and cell migration have been measured in organ culture of adult mouse jejunum during the first 48 hr. Explants cultured in DMEM-HEPES-NCTC-135 medium present a sharp decrease of mitotic activity in the first hours of culture, but mitoses are restored to 80% of the controls between 24 and 48 hr. DNA synthesis follows the same pattern. Cell migration continues during culture.
4292691|A method has been developed for culturing testes and ovaries of the young salamander Pleurodeles waltlii Michah. in a serum-free medium for 3 wk. Testicular and ovarian fragments placed in "petriperm" dishes were cultured at pH 7.2 to 7.4 in bicarbonate buffered Medium 199 (M199), brought to osmolarity of 240 mOSM, supplemented with antibiotics. Incubation was carried out at 20 C in a humidified atmosphere of 95:5% air and CO
4292618|We have developed a screening strategy and technology to produce monoclonal antibodies with specificity for human lung cancer cells. Mice and rats were immunized with well-characterized tissue culture lines of human small cell lung cancer (SCLC), mouse myeloma x spleen hybrids formed by the technique of Kohler and Milstein, and the resulting culture fluids were screened for antibody binding phenotype using a radioimmunoassay. To facilitate testing large numbers of culture fluids, a 96-well, microtiter based, reusable, replicating device was designed. Using this, many hybridoma culture fluids were replica plated for antibody binding tests on a series of human target cell plates. Hybrids producing antibodies that reacted with the immunizing SCLC line and another independent SCLC line, but not with autologous B-lymphoblastoid cells derived from one of the patients, were identified, selected, and then repeatedly recloned using the same screening strategy. With this technology, hybridomas representing less than 0.5% of all hybrids generated could be isolated and stable antibody producing cultures derived. Such antibodies reacted with a panel of well-characterized SCLC lines and SCLC samples taken directly from patients but not with a variety of normal tissues. Using these antibodies we can demonstrate: tumor cell contamination of bone marrow specimens, marked heterogeneity of antigen expression on cells within individual SCLC lines and individual patients, and inhibition of clonal growth of SCLC lines in soft agarose assays. All of these findings have potential clinical and cell biologic application.
20170486|Cells of the cultured hamster cell line V79 were labeled with tritiated adenosine and incubated for up to 30 min in the presence of inhibitors of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation. These inhibitors were (a) 5 mM KCN plus 5 mM iodoacetate, (b) 5 mM KCN plus 5 mM KF, and (c) 15 mM KCN plus 15 mM KF. The fate of the tritium label was examined during incubation with inhibitors and also during subsequent incubation in growth medium in the absence of inhibitors. The tritiated ATP pool was found to decrease in cells incubated in the presence of any of the inhibitor combinations, but only in the presence of 15 mM KCN plus 15 mM KF was this pool decreased below the level of detection. After cells were incubated with KCN plus KF, a high level of ATP was recovered when the inhibitors were removed. Cells incubated with KCN plus iodoacetate retained depletion levels of ATP. Plating efficiency and trypan blue staining showed that KCN-KF treated cells retained viability, whereas KCN-iodoacetate treated cells did not. Cells were examined for ability to take up tritiated uridine before, during, and after depletion of ATP by incubation in the presence of 15 mM KCN plus 15 mM KF. These cells were found to have a variation in uridine uptake that was related directly to intracellular ATP level. Cells in which the ATP was very low exhibited little or no uridine uptake, whereas cells in which the ATP level was near normal exhibited normal uridine uptake.
4292774|Endothelial cells from human umbilical veins were isolated by collagenase treatment. Cells were cultured in the presence of either 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS) or 20% human serum (HS). At confluency, endothelial cell lipids were labeled with tracer concentrations of tritiated arachidonic acid, then extracted and separated into lipid subclasses by thin layer chromatography. The fatty acid composition of each lipid class was determined by glass capillary gas-liquid chromatography analysis and compared to that of cells freshly isolated from the cord (NC cells). The fatty acid compositions differed only in phospholipids. Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PFAs), arachidonic, and linoleic acids were depleted in FBS cell phospholipids and replaced by both stearic and oleic acids. No significant difference could be observed between NC cell and HS cell phospholipids. We conclude that PFAs might be decreased in FBS cells because of the relative paucity of PFAs in FBS as compared to HS. It seems therefore more convenient to cultivate endothelial cells in the presence of HS, especially in respect to their phospholipid content of arachidonic acid, which is the physiological reservoir for prostacyclin synthesis.
4292650|The hypoblast from the germinal crescent area of stage 4 to 5 chick embryos, when grown on a glass surface, spreads out as a thin and continuous cellular sheet. Primordial germ cells (PCCs) are found to migrate individually over this hypoblast monolayer (as they do in vivo) and, perhaps even more striking, their morphological features during migration are remarkably similar to those observed in vivo. Inasmuch as this in vitro system permits direct observations of PGCs migrating on their natural, rather than artificial, substratum undoubtedly it will prove to be an effective means of studying the mode of PGC migration in early chick embryos.
20170487|Cultured fibroblasts derived from normal human dermis show a consistent 62% inhibition of collagen synthesis by hydrocortisone, whereas cultures derived from keloids average only 30% inhibition and show a much larger strain to strain variation ranging from 75% inhibition to 49% stimulation. Examination of fibroblast clones indicates that this high variation among keloid strains is not due to differences in the proportion of normal and keloid cells in the mass culture populations. Small but significant differences in the effect of hydrocortisone on collagen deposition are also seen among these clonal populations, but are not related to the type of tissue from which cultures were derived. Two to three-fold differences among clones derived from a single individual were observed, possibly suggesting functional heterogeneity of dermal fibroblasts with regard to collagen metabolism under control conditions and in response to hydrocortisone. However, this variation among clones may simply reflect differences in clonal growth, inasmuch as both collagen synthesis and deposition, and the effect of hydrocortisone on these processes, are strongly affected by population density.
4291778|A method has been developed for successfully maintaining for 4 days in organ culture the first molar and supporting tissues of adult mouse. The explant, which comprises the tooth, periodontal ligament, bone and, on occasions, gingiva, was cultured in a modified New circulator in Waymouth's medium MB 752/1 supplemented with ferrous sulfate, ascorbic acid, hydrocortisone, HEPES, 10% calf serum, and antibiotics. Various tensions of O
4292879|The effect of 2-deoxy-D-glucose on maintenance in culture of B cells of the neonatal rat was examined by supplementation of Medium 199 containing 5.5 mM glucose with 1 mM 2-deoxy-D-glucose. Islets maintained in medium with 5.5 mM glucose (basal medium) for 7 d underwent remarkable decreases in glucose sensitivity, and the levels of insulin in the medium dropped. By contrast, addition of 2-deoxy-D-glucose promoted a higher insulin content in medium and an increase in the glucose-induced insulin release and biosynthesis. Moreover, the addition of the deoxysugar caused a selective deletion of fibroblasts and prevented the deterioration of islet cells in basal medium, yielding clusters mostly consisting of islet cells at the end of culture.
4291639|Organ cultures containing the sex pheromone gland of Diatraea saccharalis (F.) (sugarcane borer) were maintained for over 2 months. Juvenile hormone but not ecdysterone appeared to be essential for the maintenance of integrity of the sex pheromone gland in the organ culture system. Muscles associated with these cultures pulsated during the entire culture period with or without juvenile hormone, suggesting that the hormone requirement was specific for the sex pheromone gland and not a general requirement of the cells of the organ-cultured segment.
4291804|Employing in vitro methodology and new staining techniques, changes in karyotype of a heteroploid tumor cell line derived from a pulmonary metastasis of a malignant melanoma were studied over 10 months of continuous cultivation. The modal karyotype of tumor cells in a 3-week-old culture was composed of 41 intact and 11 marker chromosomes. These markers contained three paired (disomic) and five other (monosomic) elements. The derivative cell populations in 5- to 10-month-old cultures showed changes merely in the paired markers from disomy to monosomy, by loss of one element or by formation of a new marker chromosome. Prolonged treatment in a defined medium completely devoid of serum resulted in a selection of heteroploid cells and suppression of diploid fibroblasts. The heteroploid cultures were further enriched by collecting freely suspended cells. Growth of tumor and normal cells in mixed culture had no apparent influence on either cell type.
4292081|Several factors that influence the sensitivity of the syncytia infectivity assay for the bovine leukemia virus (BLV) and BLV-infected lymphocytes have been examined. The use of early-passage indicator bovine embryonic spleen (BESP) cells and their pretreatment with diethylamino-ethyl-dextran (DEAE-D) was essential for optimal sensitivity. Polybrene was less effective than DEAE-D. The combination of DEAE-D and polybrene was more effective than DEAE-D alone when BLV-infected leukocytes were used as the inoculum, but not when the inoculum was a cell-free BLV preparation. Using BESP cell passages 4 to 11 as indicators, reproducible titers were obtained when aliquots of the same virus stock were assayed at different times after freezer storage. When assaying peripheral blood lymphocytes from infected cattle, optimal syncytia responses were observed consistently by inoculating 5  10
4291665| Mammary epithelial cells in the mature, nonpregnant mouse gland neither proliferate nor develop, presumably because they are insensitive to insulin and serum factor(s). They can become sensitive in vitro in the absence of added hormones, and they become sensitive during pregnancy consequent to an action of prolactin. The sensitized cells must undergo a critical mitosis, under the influence of insulin or serum factor (s), or both, before they can be stimulated to make casein and -lactalbumin. 
4292117|Organ cultures of newborn rat lungs synthesize and accumulate DNA, RNA, collagen and noncollagenous proteins almost at a linear rate for at least 5 days. During this period the synthesis of collagen consistently exceeds the synthesis of noncollagenous proteins in a pattern similar to neonatal lung growth in vivo. Although some morphological characteristics of lung architecture are distorted after culture, fundamental structural similarities to lungs growing in intact animals are retained. When these cultures are maintained in atmospheres rich in oxygen, increased collagen synthesis is observed, a response similar to that of lungs in intact animals exposed to high oxygen concentrations in vivo. Our studies suggest that lung organ cultures may be a suitable system for investigating the biochemical aspects of lung tissue-environmental interaction.
20170543|Clonogenic assays have been widely adopted for the investigation of hematopoietic and human tumor stem cell biology. Inasmuch as specific, whole colonies need to be analyzed morphologically, we used various methods for fixing and embedding individual colonies in situ that allowed macroscopic, light microscopic (LM), immunofluorescence, and transmission electron microscopic (TEM) evaluation of the intact colony. Melanoma colonies stained with Masson's Trichrome, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), periodic acid-Schiff, Best's carmine, Page-Green method for inclusion bodies, and Snook's reticulum revealed cellular and extracellular components by LM. Ultrastructural studies revealed specific cellular organelles and extracellular components. Immunofluorescence studies demonstrated cell-surface fibronectin, a high molecular weight, adhesive glycoprotein. Myeloma colonies contained a heterogeneous cell population and produced amyloid fibers that were observed by TEM. Fixation and embedding the colonies in agar for TEM has several advantages over centrifugation methods and other conventional techniques for collecting cells in that (a) an entire specific colony can be studied, (b) there is excellent preservation of the cell and its spatial orientation in the colony, and (c) the extracellular matrix (ECM) of the colony is preserved for immunohistochemical analysis.
20170349|Cultures of embryonic Drosophila melanogaster cells were examined by electron microscopy and events in myogenesis were recorded. Thick and thin myofilaments, T-tubules and sarcoplasmic reticulum all appeared at about the same time, 10.5 hr. This was about 5 hr after the final division of myoblasts and about the time that muscle cells were elongating, aligning and fusing. Sarcoplasm typical of insect muscle was detected by 18.5 hr, as were myotendonal and tendocuticular junctions. Two populations of myocytes were detected, the cytoplasm of one more electron-dense than the other. The only previous report of myofibrilogenesis in invertebrate embryos had described novel mechanisms. In Drosophila embryonic material, however, the sequence of myofibrilogenesis resembled that in post-embryonic insect or vertebrate material.
4292006|An in vitro model of myocardial ischemia has been established with primary monolayer cultures of neonatal rat heart cells. Ischemic conditions were simulated in vitro by subjecting the heart cell cultures to various levels of oxygen and glucose deprivation. After the ischemic treatments, cultures of beating muscle (M) cells were evaluated for functional and morphological changes. The experimental protocol consisted of treatment with 20% or 0% O
4291574|A low passage rat liver cell line demonstrated in vitro growth stimulation when cultured in the presence of serum of homologous, partially hepatectomized rats. After 4-day incubation a 3.25-fold increase in the cell population was observed in cultures supplemented with posthepatectomy serum at a dilution of 1:10. No response was observed with sham-operated animal serum. Continuous cultures of Chang human liver and Don hamster lung cells were not responsive to the posthepatectomy serum. The limitations of tetraphenylboron as a dispersing agent for primary rat liver cells are discussed.
20170378|A general method is presented for stable transfer of genetic information to eukaryotic cells, utilizing metaphase chromosomes as the vehicle. Recent progress, current problems and large areas of uncertainty in this field are reviewed; particular consideration is given to frequency of transfer, size of the transgenome, evidence for cotransfer of linked genes and serial chromosome transfer. A reasonable model for chromosome transfer is considered with respect to the available information, and various discrepancies are noted. The utility of this method for fine structural mapping, cloning small regions of the eukaryotic genome and other potential applications are discussed.
4292158|The growth of primary clones and serial subclones of HeLa cells and of diploid human fibroblast-like cells were compared both in the presence and absence of feeder layers; the latter had no significant effects upon the results. Clones and subclones of both cell types displayed great heterogeneity in growth rates, typically with a bimodality of growth distributions. Serial passages of clones selected on the basis of superior rates of proliferation showed attentuation of growth potentials; the extent of such attentuations was much less in the case of HeLa cells, suggesting at least one possible basis for the differences in long-term growth potential between these two classes of cell lines.
4292860|Primary cultures of rat myocytes were deprived of oxygen (approximately 5 mm Hg, pO
20170489|The normal range of many chemical, physical, and biological (hormonal) properties of fetal bovine, calf, and newborn calf sera collected commercially are presented. We attempt to relate these properties to growth promotion in vitro. Whereas no definitive conclusions could be drawn from the data, high growth hormone levels, low endotoxin levels, and low levels of bilirubin seemed to have some association with good growth promotion if the levels of the other parameters were close to the mean. Large variations from the mean of any of the parameters seemed to affect the growth properties of the serum.
4292766|Two continuous rat mammary tumor cell lines have been established in culture from the lymphogenously metastasizing rat mammary carcinoma TMT-081 and one from the non-metastasizing MT-100 and some of their in vitro and in vivo characteristics studied. Cell line TMT-081-MS was established as a free-floating cell suspension from the metastasis-free spleen of a rat bearing TMT-081 in the ascites form and is characterized by a high level of mammary tissue specific antigen (MTA), an antigen present on lactating or hormonally stimulated rat mammary tissues but not detected on normal mammary tissue. This line metastasizes in the syngeneic host but is rejected by the nude mouse without metastases. Cell line TMT-081-NM is a line derived from the ascites of a rat also bearing TMT-081 ascites. Cell line MT-100-TC is a line derived from the ascites of a rat bearing the ascites form of MT-100. Neither TMT-081-NM nor MT-100-TC has ever shown metastases in the syngeneic host but they are lethal; in the nude mice they grow rapidly, are lethal, and sometimes show hematogenous metastases. Both grow in small clusters and show a low level of MTA. These cell lines have been in continuous culture for a year and have proliferated and maintained their individual in vitro and in vivo growth characteristics during more than 100 consecutive subcultivations.
4291931|Incorporating activated charcoal (AC) in culture media has been shown to affect growth and development of various organisms. Since AC stimulates the development of tobacco haploid plantlets from cultured anthers, research was conducted to determine the effect of activated charcoal on pith-derived callus growth and shoot development in Nicotiana tabacum cv. Wisconsin 38. Our results indicate that the hormones required for callus growth and shoot development in Wisconsin-38 tobacco are adsorbed by AC, thereby inhibiting callus growth and prohibiting shoot development. This effect was observed even when AC was removed from the medium by filtration prior to culturing the callus.
4292503|The purpose of this study was to Optimize growth conditions for a strain of haploid carrot callus and to follow its karyotypic changes in a long span of time. The strain has been maintained in liquid suspension since September 1977. It has remained predominantly haploid in its karyotype since that time. The original explant was initiated and subsequently subcultured in Gamborg's B5 medium. The components of the B5 medium were omitted one at a time and sequentially added back to determine their minimum, optimum, and maximum nontoxic concentrations. These changes were made in the original formula: the addition of an organic buffering agent and an increase in the iron and other micronutrient concentrations. Using this slightly modified B5 medium, we assessed the effect on growth by single additions of amino acids, different carbon sources, growth regulators, and vitamins. No improvement in plating efficiency resulted from addition of any of these compounds. We conclude that there are factors limiting the plating efficiency of the haploid cells other than these tested, or that single additions will not make a discernible difference, or that growth promoting factors cannot be exogenously supplemented to cultured cells.
4291550|Two mammalian cell lines which multiply in vitro in culture medium devoid of serum were investigated for sensitivity to twice crystallized trypsin. The minimum trypsin concentration which showed a concomitant increase in cell numbers and detachment from the surface of the culture vessel in one cell line was
4291880|Hamster tracheas were cultured in serum-free CMRL 1066 medium buffered with either NaHCO
4292651|Prostaglandins, which are believed to mediate the initiation or maintenance of human labor or both, are synthesized from arachidonic acid. We have shown previously that the arachidonic acid content of two glycerophospholipids (diacyl phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylinositol) in amnion tissue obtained during early labor is decreased compared with that in amnion tissue obtained before labor commenced. We and others have demonstrated that amnion tissue synthesizes prostaglandin E
4292468|In order to provide autologous adult endothelial cells for the production of cell-lined artificial vascular prostheses, we have developed a method for harvesting large numbers of cells with minimal contamination by other cellular types. In this technique, the vein to be stripped is isolated, removed, and everted over a stainless steel rod. After washing, the vein is incubated in trypsin-EDTA solution followed by collagenase and the endothelial cells flushed off with a stream of culture medium. With care and appropriate timing, the endothelium can be selectively removed leaving the underlying basal lamina intact.
4292548|A simple, rapid procedure for the quantitation of the histochemical stain for
20170551|The role of polypeptide growth factors (estromedins) as mediators of estrogen-responsive mammary tumor growth is studied in this report. Three possible new mechanisms were investigated that include endocrine, autocrine, and paracrine related growth factors. The first hypothesis being tested is whether estrogens interact with target tissues and cause the biosynthesis and secretion of polypeptide growth factors, which then act as mitogens for normal and neoplastic mammary tissues. Data presented suggest that this mechanism involves estrogen interaction with uterus, kidney, and pituitary gland causing production of growth factors, which then enter the general circulation and promote growth of distant target tissues. This is an endocrine type mechanism. Another type of estromedin control (autocrine control) may be exerted in an autostimulatory way in which the target tissue produces the polypeptide factors for its own growth in response to estrogen stimulation. A variation of the autocrine mechanism may be a paracrine mechanism in which some cells of an estrogen-responsive normal or neoplastic tissue produce growth factors that act on adjacent or neighboring cells. From the data available, all three possible types of growth factors could be functioning synergistically to yield the final result of continuous estrogen responsive tumor growth in vivo.
20170405| Hepatocytes isolated from neonatal (NN) and adult (AD) rats were seeded on fibronectin coated substratum and cultured in arginine-free medium supplemented with various combinations of insulin, dexamethasone, triiodothyronine (T), albumin, and transferrin, in presence or absence of fibronectin depleted serum (FDS). The main finding is that in response to certain hormone mixtures, both NN and AD hepatocytes can be stimulated to proliferate, as revealed by an increase in cell number, a [H]thymidine incorporation into nuclei, and extractable DNA as well as the appearance of mitotic figures. Moreover, this proliferative activity is associated with changes in hepatocyte ploidy. However, the proliferative response of NN hepatocytes to hormone action is much different from that of AD hepatocytes, and the addition of FDS amplifies this activity in NN but inhibits it in AD hepatocyte cultures. Measurements of tyrosine aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase activities indicate a good preservation of NN and AD hepatocyte functional integrity under certain culture conditions. A good maintenance of albumin production in NN and AD hepatocyte cultures requires the presence of dexamethasone, whereas the -fetoprotein production in NN hepatocyte cultures is reduced quite rapidly under most conditions. No -fetoprotein is detectable in AD hepatocyte cultures. 
4291805|RPMI 1788 lymphocytes grown in semi-suspension culture proliferate as separate cells and in clumps. The addition of
4292458|Energy metabolism has been examined in mouse LS cells growing under steady-state conditions in chemostat culture. The metabolic quotient of glucose oxidized (glucose consumed, but not fermented) remained constant, independent of growth rate between cell doubling times of 6 days and 1.2 days. Specific activities of cytochrome oxidase and malate dehydrogenase in the mitochondria remained constant at different growth rates, in accord with the constancy of the glucose oxidation rate. Cytosolic malate dehydrogenase activity was about fourfold greater than the mitochondrial isozyme. The steady-state rate of lactate production fluctuated because of technical limitations but correlated well with cytosolic lactate dehydrogenase activity.
4292557| Improved culture conditions have been developed that will support clonal growth of Swiss mouse embryo 3T3 cells at concentrations of serum protein as low as 125  g/ml. Survival of the cells under completely protein-free conditions also is enhanced greatly. The improvements that made these results possible include: (a) use of medium MCDB 402, which was developed specifically for Swiss 3T3 cells by adjusting the concentrations of all components of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium to optimum values for clonal growth with minimal serum protein and by adding other nutrients such as trace elements and "nonessential" amino acids that were not in the original formula; (b) use of culture surfaces that are coated with a positively charged polymer, poly-D-lysine; and (c) use of gentle low temperature trypsinization technique that minimizes cellular damage and the need to neutralize residual trypsin. 
4292535|Epithelial cells from amniotic fluid cell cultures are morphologically transformed by simian virus 40, 20 to 30 d after infection. The cells of the transformed colonies are highly basophilic, have a high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio, and show a dense growth pattern. The cells are virus producers, and ultimately, after continuous passage, the cell lines reach a crisis situation with no growth. Twelve morphologically transformed cell colonies were isolated from five different individuals for chromosome analyses after approximately 18 population doublings (second bottle passage). For all cell lines diploid cells were observed. Banding of the chromosomes revealed normal morphology of euchromatic and heterochromatic regions. The suggestion. is made that chromosome alteration is not necessary, nor a prerequisite, for the morphologically transformed phenotype to be expressed and that the transformation process per se causes chromosomal instability. Tests for colony formation of the 12 cell lines in semisolid medium showed that different transformed colony isolates from the same individual donor of the cells either formed or did not form colonies in agar. The size of the colonies was also consistent within individuals as compared to between individuals. These limited results are suggestive of a dependence upon the genetic constitution of the individual donor of the cells for colony formation in soft agar.
4291972|A protein-free synthetic medium, MCDB 301, has been developed for clonal growth of Chinese hamster ovary cell lines. Medium F12 was developed originally for that purpose, but later failed to support good growth without small amounts of serum protein. Growth was restored by the addition of nonphysiological amounts of commercially prepared thyroxine or smaller amounts of the trace element selenium. The thyroxine preparation was shown to contain sufficient selenium to account for all of its growth-promoting activity. MCDB 301 contains increased concentrations of calcium chloride and glutamine, and a smaller amount of cysteine than medium F12. It also has been supplemented with 19 inorganic ions, in addition to selenium and those in medium F12, in order to insure against possible future deficiencies as chemicals are purified further. A Chinese hamster lung line which will not grow in MCDB 301 alone will grow when the medium is supplemented either with methylcellulose or with insulin. The growth-promoting activity is thought to be an impurity shared in common by both substances. The probable "essential" role of impurities in cellular growth in most synthetic media and the problems involved in attempting to develop a truly "defined" medium are discussed.
4292760|To optimize culture conditions and gain a more reliable culturing system for studies of metabolic properties of neuronal cells, a simplified perfusion chamber was developed. It consists of two parts: a perfusion block and a standard plastic culture dish. To confirm the suitability of this chamber for continuous culturing of anchorage-dependent cells, the growth and morphology of the four neuronal cell lines, glioma C6 and glioma 138MG, neuroblastoma C1300, clones N1E115 and N18 were followed for 4 d using both traditional and perfusion techniques. A marked increase in growth and a decrease in the degree of morphological differentiation were obtained with the latter technique compared to the former.
4292298|The effect of Eagle's minimal essential medium, containing different fetal bovine serum (FBS) concentrations, on the proliferation and replicative life span of cultured chick cells has been studied. Our results showed that the rate of chick cell proliferation and the cell density at stationary phase increased as a function of serum concentration between 5 and 30% FBS. The replicative life span of cultured chick cells was dependent on the FBS concentration between 5 and 20% in a medium volume of
4292104|Separation of human endometrium into its epithelial and stromal components has been achieved through collagenase digestion and has permitted a study of these two cell populations under specific experimental culture conditions. The stromal cell populations showed a progesterone response, were easily handled in culture, and displayed a limited in vitro life span typical of human diploid fibroblasts. In contrast, epithelium only survived in shortterm primary culture and showed no clear hormone response. High-density epithelial cultures remained viable for longer periods in culture. Comparisons between resurfacing endometrial epithelial cells in vivo and epithelial cells migrating from explants in vitro suggested that this initial epithelial migration in vitro was the counterpart of the repair response in vivo.
4292673|The ability of hepatocyte monolayers to synthesize RNA was investigated by measuring
20170485|A model for the study of angiogenesis in vitro is described. Rat aortas, cultured in a tridimensional matrix of clotted chick plasma, gave rise to luxuriant outgrowth of vascular channels. We studied this process with light microscopic, radioautographic, and ultrastructural techniques. On the 2nd d of culture, endothelial cells sprouted from the intima of the aorta and its collateral branches into the surrounding clot, forming solid cellular cords. A complex vascular network was established within the 1st wk by spindly, poorly differentiated endothelial cells. At this stage cells were migrating, branching, and proliferating in a longitudinal fashion (labeling index: 67.4%  7.7). Lumens, when present, appeared as slitlike spaces enclosed with junctional complexes. By the end of the 2nd wk the migratory activity decreased and proliferation occurred mostly in a cross-sectional plane, with formation of large patent lumens (labeling index: 48%  3.1). Vascular channels were lined by prominent endothelial cells rich in rough endoplasmic reticulum, polysomes, mitochondria, Golgi apparatuses, and coated vesicles. Cells were enveloped with a ruthenium red positive layer, particularly abundant on the luminal surface and in the inter-endothelial space. A discontinuous basal lamina was present along the abluminal side. At 28 d the labeling index was reduced to 2.25%  0.9. The still viable endothelium exhibited numerous microfilaments and microtubules, decreased cytoplasmic organelles, and increased pinocytotic activity. This experimental model, histophysiologic gradient culture, provides us with a new tool for the study of vascular morphogenesis, angiogenesis dependent growth of tumors, and neoplastic intravasation.
4292391|Lung and skin fibroblasts from young and adult donors were irradiated with low dose rate ionizing radiation. Experiments show that in fibroblastlike cells from human adult donors there are three main types of response: irradiation can decrease only the total number of cells produced, it can also decrease the number of subcultures, and in some instances it can prolong the growth potential. Previous experiments suggested that these responses are genetically determined. They may have implications concerning the donor's proneness to cancer.
4292467|Normal breast tissue from a 17-year-old girl was grown in organ culture for 3 weeks. A comparison was made between the effects on the epithelium of a defined culture medium containing various combinations of hormones and a serum-supplemented medium that has been used to successfully maintain other human tissues for 4 months routinely, and in some cases for up to 1 year. After culture for 3 weeks the explants were exposed to [
4292678|Hyperoxia induced cellular damage was used as an experimental model system for examining the ameliorative role of antioxidants. Multiplication of HEp-2 cells in monolayer culture was inhibited after exposure to 100% O
4292317| The maintenance of adult rat lung explants in organ culture was assessed both morphologically and biochemically. A comparison of several culture media indicated that Ham's F12K plus 0.1 M dexamethasone, which maintained the explants for 14 days, was superior. The ability of the explants to synthesize dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine increased with the length of cultivation to values greater than the noncultivated controls. The DNA content remained constant for 7 days, and a relatively normal structural relationship between type I and type II pneumocytes was maintained. Explants cultivated in Ham's F12K without dexamethasone did not maintain a histotypic morphology; the type II pneumocytes appeared to proliferate and the ability to synthesize phosphatidylcholine decreased. 
4292302|A papovavirus, CCL 33 PV, isolated from a porcine cell line, CCL 33 (GT), was characterized. Based on a comparison of four isoenzyme systems, CCL 33 (GT) and CCL 33 (ATCC), obtained directly from the American Type Culture Collection, appeared to be the same. In addition to the previously characterized C-type virus of CCL 33 cultures, CCL 33 (GT) produces CCL 33 PV in high quantity, but CCL 33 (ATCC) produces a papovalike virus, presumably the same as CCL 33 PV, in barely detectable amounts. Serological results showed that CCL 33 PV is apparently identical to a papovavirus (SPV) isolated by Newman and Smith after inoculation of CCL 33 with concentrated porcine trypsin. These studies extend the characterization of this papovavirus, demonstrating that CCL 33 PV is weakly hemagglutinating after neuraminidase treatment, has a high affinity for a component of fetal bovine serum and is highly infectious in appropriate porcine cell systems rather than very defective as reported previously. Moreover, it was concluded from the data that CCL 33 PV is probably indigenous to the CCL 33 porcine cell line.
4292344|Growth hormone production by a rat pituitary tumor cell line (GH1) was measured during lag, exponential, and plateau phases of growth in different culture media. Growth hormone secretion was low during lag and early exponential phase; it increased late in the exponential phase and continued to increase during the plateau phase. This biphasic pattern of growth hormone production was observed in all media and sera utilized. Both the doubling time and growth hormone production were influenced by the choice of media and sera. In addition, the length of time in culture affected the growth fraction with passage level 40 GH1 cells having a 79% growth fraction, whereas the growth fraction of passage level 100 cells was 95%. Using the population doubling time as a criterion for a choice of medium, F-10 medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum consistently yielded the most rapid doubling time (32 hr), whereas Dulbecco's MEM supplemented with 15% horse serum and 2.5% fetal bovine serum yielded the greatest plateau cell density. Growth hormone secretion and the population doubling times were directly related to culture conditions including length of time in culture, choice of tissue culture media, choice of sera, and the phase of cell growth (lag, exponential or plateau).
4291908|A method has been developed by which the surface of cover slips can be conditioned for rapid outgrowth of the epidermis of cockroach legs. The method permits in vitro observation of wound-healing processes. The conditioning is brought about by materials given off by the hemocytes, possibly materials from the granules of plasmatocytes which are extruded during the flattening of the cells. Coating of the glass surface with other proteins (including cockroach hemolymph serum) and carbohydrates was completely ineffective.
4291932|Changes in the size of the area covered by individual cultured WI-38 cells as the cultures age have been studied by using a new microphotographic paper cutout technique. This method is nondestructive and nonintrusive and avoids a number of artifacts which can occur in the measurement of suspended cells. The measurements reveal that the decreased cell yield of late passage cultures reflects not only the appearance of a subpopulation of larger cells but also the failure of the cells to utilize all the growth surface available to them.
4292358|The terminal differentiation, keratinization, of a rat bladder tumor cell line, NBT II, occurred in multicellular aggregates. After aggregation, these cells did not undergo a round of mitosis before keratinization. 5-Bromodeoxyuridine added to the monolayer cell culture 2 days before aggregation completely prevented this differentiation; it was ineffective when added at the time of cell aggregation. Vitamin A prevented the keratinization of NBT II cells in aggregates but did not inhibit aggregate formation; it enhanced the number of cells engaged in DNA synthesis. This model appears to be very useful for analyzing the mechanisms of terminal differentiation and its modulation by vitamin A in tumor cells.
4292262|Growth parameters of diploid and trisomic human fibroblasts were determined. The rate of growth of both classes of cells was examined in asynchronous cultures, and diploid and trisomic cells had similar growth rates. Synchronous cultures were developed using simple mitotic selection, the patterns and length of the DNA synthetic period (S phase) were found to be altered in trisomy 21 cells when compared to diploid human or to heteroploid HeLa cells. Early S-phase synthesis was absent or reduced and the overall length of the S phase was extended. However, the trisomic cells have apparently normal rates of DNA chain elongation and normal replicon sizes.
20170342|The addition of 10% fetal bovine serum to Leibovitz's L-15 culture medium resulted in marked growth of peripheral blood leukocytes from rainbow trout, Salmo gairdneri. Culture medium without serum or with 20% homologous serum did not induce substantial growth. In contrast to what has been reported by others, oxygenation of the culture medium was found not to be required for excellent cell growth.
4292141|Dome populations from primary cultures of mouse mammary tumor cells were quantitatively studied in regard to size, distribution, density and the area occupied by light-diffusion photography and image analysis. The effects of fetal bovine serum, insulin and hydrocortisone were analyzed. Quantitative characterization documented dome diameter (mode diameter 0.26 to 0.52 mm), dome area occupied (average 23%, maximum 38.7%), and density (average
4291714|A method has been developed to obtain synchronous populations from a human cell line which previously resisted the use of the selective harvest technique. A concentration of Colcemid was determined which reversibly enriched the mitotic population but avoided delays in cell cycle progression. Mitotic cells were then detached from monolayer cultures by brief treatment with hypotonic salt solutions. The resulting populations of line A244 were shown to be viable and synchronous by following attachment efficiency and cycle time and by monitoring mitotic index and deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis. Hypotonic solutions offer no advantage in the selection of mitotic L-929 cells, a line commonly synchronized by selective harvest. However, their use with both CV-1 and A244 cells provided large populations highly synchronized with respect to mitosis. This technique might be applied successfully to cell types which do not demonstrate a selective advantage at division.
4291539|A clonal strain of rat pituitary tumor cells (
4292253|Skin fibroblasts as well as 3T3 cells were cultured after entrapping freshly prepared cells in medium containing polymerizing fibrin. In contrast to cells grown on plastic substratum, fibrin-clot-cultured cells became highly elongated forming strands of cells. The strands interconnected by lateral cellular protrusions so that horizontal networks of cells were present throughout the clots. Cell growth as well as stretching were dependent upon the concentrations of fibrin. Highest growth rates were obtained with low fibrin concentrations (0.3 mg fibrinogen per ml). As shown by deprivation experiments nutritional limitations appear to be responsible for differences in growth rates observed in fibrin clots of higher density. In this system the fibrin meshwork serves as substratum for adhesion, elongation and multiplication of fibroblasts. The method makes it possible to study single cells in culture and the effects of persistent microenvironmental influences.
4292840|Cerebral endothelium is being studied rather extensively in tissue culture, but no reports are available describing the tissue culture of cerebral microvascular smooth muscle. The present paper describes for the first time the isolation and culture of non-neoplastic mouse cerebral vascular smooth muscle. Microvessels from a dounce homogenate of mouse brain are plated onto plastic culture dishes in Dulbecco's modified Eagle media plus 20% fetal bovine serum and treated briefly with collagenase. Cells migrate from vessels and proliferate sufficiently to be transferred out of primary culture in 2 to 3 wk. Light microscopy reveals generally broad, polygonal cells that grow collectively in a "hill and valley" pattern. By transmission electron microscopy the cells possess many characteristics of smooth muscle: basal laminas, clusters of pinocytotic vesicles, and bundles of thin filaments. Several ill-defined cell-to-cell junctions are also present. Isoelectric focusing and sodium dodecyl sulfate-electrophoresis of cellular proteins on polyacrylamide gels after pulse labeling cultures with
4292654|Primary monolayer cultures of rat myocardial cells were used to study the cellular injury that occurs when calcium is reintroduced after a period of calcium depletion. Cultures were treated with a calcium-free balanced salt solution (BSS) for 2 h and were then incubated for different time periods in the presence of normocalcemic BSS (
4291952|Human H.Ep-2 and mouse 3T6 cells infected by Mycoplasma hyorhinis showed an increase in
20170363|Bovine herpesvirus-1 infection in hamster embryo cells was found to be dependent upon input multiplicity; productive infection was achieved at input multiplicities greater than one, while persistent infection was established when input multiplicities were about 0.5. This persistence was characterized by a noncyclic, minimal degree of cytopathic effect with a low level of released virus. Maintenance of the persistently infected cultures did not require external supportive measures. Subcultivation of the persistently infected cultures led to virus replication followed by CPE and then cell regrowth. Within 3 to 4 weeks after subcultivation a persistent infection was re-established. The possible mechanism for the bovine herpesvirus persistence in hamster cells is discussed.
4291624| Populations of a heteroploid Chinese hamster cell line were exposed to single and multiple doses of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) and examined for chromosomal aberrations. Cells exposed to 0.5 g per ml MNNG did not differ significantly from those exposed to 1.0 g per ml MNNG in terms of the types or frequencies of aberrations induced, and one exposure to MNNG appeared to be as effective as three sequential exposures. Complex, chromosome-type aberrations were found in 12 to 28% of all examined MNNG-treated cells. 
4292730|Seven mosquito cell lines from five species (Aedes aegypti, Ae. albopictus, Ae. pseudoscutellaris, Culex tarsalis, and Toxorhynchites amboinensis) were adapted to three kinds of serum-free media (SEM), which were composed of equal volumes of tryptose phosphate broth and of either Leibovitz (L15) medium, Eagle's minimum essential medium, or Medium 199 with Hanks' salts. Population growth rates of the cells cultivated in the SMFs were generally slower than those of original cell cultures maintained in conventional media containing bovine sera. A karyological study showed a significant shift to heteroploidy in two of the four cell lines examined. Four SMF-adapted sublines were compared with parental cultures for replication of dengue viruses. Ae. aegypti RML-12, Ae. albopictus C6/36, Ae. pseudoscutellaris AP-61, and Tx. amboinensis TRA-171 demonstrated different levels of alteration in virus replication ranging from lower titers (as in Ae. albopictus C6/36) to comparable or higher titers (as in Ae. aegypti RML-12) when they were simultaneously inoculated with four dengue serotypes.
4292260|The levels of ethanol present in the gas phase of callus cultures were elevated by 2,4-D. Whereas carbon dioxide, ethylene and acetaldehyde also were affected, their changes in relation to auxin were inconsistent and usually smaller in magnitude than that of ethanol. Under conditions independent of auxin concentration, embryogenesis in Daucus carota and Phoenix dactylifera showed an inverse relationship with the concentration of ethanol in the cultures.
4291918|The history and characteristics of two cell lines developed from primary expiants of pupal tissue from the insect, Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith), are described. One cell line, IPLB-SF-21, was developed with hemolymph-supplemented medium and has been maintained continuously on the medium. The second cell line, IPLB-SF-1254, was developed with a medium containing a combination of vertebrate sera plus hemolymph and was adapted to hemolymph-free medium at the 6th passage. The IPLB-SF-21 cell line has a population doubling time of 26 to 30 hr; the doubling time of the IPLB-SF-1254 line is 36 hr. The chromosomal morphology and distribution was typical of other lepidopteran cell lines. Serological studies showed that both cell lines have at least one antigen which also is common to tissue antigens from pupae of Spodoptera frugiperda.
4292594|Glycine-derivatized polystyrene beads were prepared and used as microcarriers to grow normal cells of human embryonic kidney, rhesus monkey kidney, and human foreskin fibroblasts in suspension cultures. Growth of the cells on polystyrene beads derivatized with other amino acids, peptides, and carboxylic acids also was investigated.
4291749|Amino acid analyses of two biologically efficacious fractions from a peptone dialysate (PD) revealed high concentrations of glycine, presumably present in PD as glycine-rich peptides. Before undertaking further analyses of PD, the growth-promoting abilities of several commercially available glycine peptides were tested with strain L (NCTC 2071) cells continuously subcultured in chemically defined medium NCTC 135, and with RH-PD cells which require peptone or peptone fractions for continued survival and proliferation. NCTC 2071 populations 5 to 10% greater than control cultures were obtained with 0.18 to 0.72 mM peptide-supplemented medium NCTC 135; slightly better results were obtained with peptides containing an even number of glycine residues. No amplification of this response was observed after 28 to 29 weekly culture transfers in 0.72 mM supplemented NCTC 135, and evidence suggested that the peptides were poorly hydrolyzed to monomeric glycine. Addition of the glycine peptides may permit use of a reduced minimum inoculum for NCTC 2071. Marked growth enhancement of peptone-dependent RH-PD cells was obtained only when glycine peptides were tested in the presence of 0.5 mg of PD per ml.
4292752|Cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells bind and internalize
4291596|Cancer is discussed from a standpoint of a postembryonic differentiation. A differentiation requires the interaction of an exogenous inductive stimulus with competent precursor cells, which then evolve a new tissue with unique, stable heritable properties distinguishable from the progenitor. Evidence is cited pinpointing the normal stem cells of tissues as the competent target precursor cells in carcinogenesis. The resultant phenotype differs from its progenitor and has stable and unique characteristics. All of the characteristics associated with malignancy are expressed during some stage of development, suggesting that the normal genome contains the information necessary for malignant expression, and that the mechanism of malignancy is probably an alteration of control of genomic expression. Malignant tissue, like normal tissue, maintains itself by proliferation and differentiation of its stem cells; at least, that is what was observed in two tumors examined. In each of these tumors the differentiated progeny of the malignant stem cells proved to be benign. A third tumor was adapted to growth in vitro and under the conditions of the experiments could be modulated by altering the in vitro conditions. These data suggest that direction of the naturally occurring differentiation that occurs in tumors may be a suitable therapeutic alternative to cytotoxic chemotherapy.
4292312|Isolation of normal human glandular epithelia and their growth and maintenance in vitro have been major problems. The primary objective of studies presented here was to isolate postpubertal, normal human, viable prostatic epithelium for in vitro cultivation. The long-term objective of these investigations was to develop an in vitro human cell model system for studies on prostatic carcinogenesis. A method for isolation of viable, normal and benign human prostatic epithelium, using collagenase for tissue dissociation, is described. Intact acini were isolated, which, on plating gave rise to vigorously growing monolayer cultures of epithelial cells. The purity of epithelial cultures partly depended upon the source of tissue. Specimens of normal prostate and those of benign tissue derived from open prostatectomies provided primarily pure epithelial cultures with occasional fibroblast colonies in some cultures, which could be removed. Cultures from some specimens of transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) contained many fibroblast colonies due to incomplete separation of acini from the stroma. This resulted from incomplete digestion of denatured tissue caused by electrocauterization during surgery. Cultures established in this manner are being used to study the effects of hormones, vitamins and other growth regulators in order to establish growth requirements of these cells in vitro, which would facilitate their long-term maintenance.
20170470|Cultured endothelial cells derived from bovine calf pulmonary artery were subjected to a variety of fixatives and stained with 1% Alcian blue 8GX at pH 2.59 to 3.26. Within this range of pH, interphase nuclei and especially mitotic figures were (a) strongly stained in cells fixed with 10% formalin (phosphate buffered or unbuffered) or 2.5% buffered glutaraldehyde, (b) weekly stained or unstained in cells fixed in formaldehyde containing divalent cations, and (c) unstained in cells fixed in acetic acid-containing fluids. However, optimal nuclear staining with Alcian blue under the conditions of this study was judged to be achieved after fixation with neutral phosphate buffered 10% formalin. Endothelial cell cytoplasm exhibited a similar fixative-dependent staining. At pH 2.59 the cytoplasm of interphase cells fixed in formaldehyde (containing no divalent cations) or glutaraldehyde remained unstained; however, at higher pH cytoplasmic staining did occur and it increased as pH increased. In contrast, when these latter fixatives were employed the cytoplasm of mitotic cells stained at all pH levels tested. In cultured endothelial cells after appropriate fixation, 1% Alcian blue 8GX (pH 2.59) was found to possess the ability to stain nuclei with a selectivity and intensity that compared favorably to those of the Feulgen reaction or Heidenhain iron hematoxylin but without the latters' length and complexity. Therefore, this procedure may provide a rapid, simple, and selective method for visualizing interphase nuclei or mitotic figures, or both in the majority of cultured cells.
4292144|Seminiferous tubules of 1-day-old rats were maintained in organ culture for up to 40 days. Five classes of intercellular junctions between Sertoli cells were observed by the freeze-fracture method as the tissue aged: (a) typical gap junctions; (b) focal tight junctions; (c) macular tight junctions; (d) meandering tight junctions; and (e) extensive tight junctions. The relative proportions of these types of Sertoli cell junctions were quantitated as the organ cultures progressed. The junctional structures observed and classified in organ culture were identical to those seen in vivo, but the timing of their appearance and/or disappearance, as well as their relative proportions, was different from that observed in the developing animal. Extensive tight junctions, with numerous parallel strands, were observed in the 40-day cultures; however, their oblique orientation with respect to the myoid layer was in contrast to the parallel orientation observed in vivo.
20170263|Tumors of the human nervous system (neuroblastomas, an ependymoma, a medulloblastoma, and a Schwannoma) obtained during surgery have been cultured organotypically by the method of Wolff. The tumors retained characteristic morphology, organization and patterns of behavior in vitro, and one neuroblastoma gave rise to a growing long-term culture. Long-term organotypic culture, where maintenance of tissue organization and growth occur together, is recommended for the study of neoplasms of the nervous system.
20170330|An adult male African green monkey (Cercopithecus aethiops) with an undifferentiated carcinoma, probably originating from the nasal mucosa, was received from the Akron, Ohio, zoo. Cultivation of this tumor in vitro resulted in a mixture of fibroblastic and epithelial cells which was subsequently separated using differential trypsinization. The neoplastic nature of the cultured epithelial cells was verified by their ability to transplant into athymic nude, or antithymocyte serum-treated mice, where poorly differentiated carcinomas were produced, and cultures of the tumors that arose in nude mice were morphologically similar to pretransplantation cultures. Early cultures showed a normal male karyotype characteristic of the species; however, in long-term cultures, a clearly defined, small submetacentric Y chromosome was not observed. Electron microscopic examination of tumor tissue and cultured tumor cells revealed desmosomes and the presence of cytoplasmic (keratin-type) fibrils, which tended to be organized around the nucleus. In addition to the keratin-type fibrils, the cultured tumor cells also contained a large amount of cytoplasmic inclusion material that may represent keratohyalin granules. There was no evidence of a viral association with tumor material or cultured cells. The cultures were susceptible to infection by vesicular stomatitis virus, Herpesvirus hominis type 1, and H. saimiri, but were resistant to the Epstein-Barr virus.
20170558| Tracheal explants were used to evaluate the relative ciliostatic and cytotoxic potential of heavy metal salts (cadmium chloride, chromium chloride, nickel chloride, and copper sulfate). Explants from hamster, rat, and guinea pig were all sensitive to the metals, though guinea pig explants showed the greatest difference between the untreated and metal treated tissues. Dosage levels were 50, 100, and 500 M, for 24 to 148 h. Cadmium caused the greatest degree of ciliostasis and cell necrosis. Copper was less toxic, and nickel and chromium caused marginal damage when tested at 100 M or lower. In each instance, damage became detectable at approximately 24 to 48 h and was nearly stabilized by 72 h. A significant loss of ciliary motion was always accompanied by a decrease in metabolic activity (dehydrogenase activity and ATP content). Transmission and scanning electron microscopy revealed a severely necrotic epithelium after exposure to cadmium, with only subtle morphological alterations after exposure to other metals. With all of the treatments there was no overt structural damage to cilia and little alteration in membranes of cells remaining in the epithelium. Some coagulation or vacuolization was noted in cadmium and copper treated explants but most cellular organelles did not display obvious damage. The most significant changes in the tracheal epithelium exposed to heavy metal salts in vitro were a loss of ciliary motion and a decrease in total ATP content. 
4291551|Nucleohistone was extracted from chick embryo cells at intervals during their in vitro life span. Results showed no significant quantitative change in histone-DNA ratios between old and young cells. Young cells exhibited a cyclic variation in histone-DNA ratio that was not detected in aged cells. Histone-DNA values throughout the growth cycle for aged cells were similar to those obtained for young cells in stationary phase. This finding suggests that aged cells resemble young cells in stationary phase with respect to histone-DNA ratio.
4291925|In an effort to establish a test system to examine the carcinogenic potential of chemicals, mouse prostate explants were maintained as organ cultures and the effects of carcinogenic and noncarcinogenic compounds were examined at various intervals after treatment. The degree of hyperplasia produced by a compound was determined by the colcemid metaphase arrest technique. Extensive hyperplasia of the prostatic epithelium occurred at 8 days after treatment with 3-methylcholanthrene, the 11-12 epoxide of methylcholanthrene, benzo(a)pyrene and N-methyl-N-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine. At 12 days most carcinogen-treated explants were anaplastic. The noncarcinogenic compounds, pyrene and phenanthrene, did not produce a mitotic stimulatory effect on the epithelium of the explants. The data suggest that the organ culture system of mouse prostate may be employed as a test system to obtain preliminary information regarding the carcinogenicity of a compound.
4292790|Certain functional analogs of amino acids were examined for their capacity to inhibit chemically induced expression of endogenous xenotropic retrovirus from Kirsten sarcoma virus transformed BALB/c (K-BALB) mouse cells. Partially synchronized cells cultured with aminoethylcysteine (AEC), parafluorophenylalanine (PFA), or valinol, and subsequently induced with either 5-iododeoxyuridine (IUdR), cycloheximide, or histidinol, showed inhibition of virus activation. Inhibition was concentration- and time-dependent (1 to 4 h) and not a consequence of cytotoxicity. Inhibition was competed out by the analogous amino acid and was specific to the induction process. After a 4 h analog treatment, heteronuclear RNA synthesis was reduced 24, 38, and 35% by PFA, AEC, and valinol, respectively, whereas cycloheximide or actinomycin D reduced synthesis by 60 and 90%, respectively; therefore, the analogs did not seem to inhibit induction through a general transcriptional block. Culture of cells in the presence of the analogs resulted in an abrupt reduction (70 to 90%) in DNA synthesis. Using synchronized cells, it was found that 0.1 mM AEC added in G
4292688|A clone of Vero cells resistant to up to
4292345|Cultured arterial smooth muscle cells derived from different times in culture, different passages, and different species were evaluated by a combination of transmission electron microscopy and morphometry. The morphometric studies focused on point counting and monitored the following cellular components: lysosomes, myofilaments, mitochondria, ribosomes, and rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER). Percent volume composition values for the organelles involved in protein synthesis, namely ribosomes and RER, show significant fluctuations with time. Consistent with these observations, the cells showed increasing myofilaments during the early weeks in culture, which subsequently decreased significantly. The data also indicate that rabbit cells in culture may become synthetically quiescent with time and the distribution of cellular components is altered with each succeeding passage. Cultured calf (bovine) cells exhibit similar activity periods compared to rabbit but show a significantly higher lysosomal and lower myofilament content than rabbit. Calf cells could not be maintained for longer than 21 days in the absence of ascorbate, whereas ascorbate affects the ultrastructure of rabbit cells less dramatically. Age, passage, and donor, among others, are important considerations for studying in vitro smooth muscle cells. With proper morphologic and morphometric monitoring, these smooth muscle cell culture systems can be important tools in the study of aging or pathologic processes, or both.
4292497|A new amphibian permanent cell line is described. It is called XL2 and was initiated from Stage 35 tadpoles of Xenopus laevis. The cell line has an epithelioid morphology and most cells can be classified into two populations with respective chromosome modal numbers 36 and 74. Contact inhibition is low. Its growth is vigorous in L15 or MEM medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum. The mean doubling time is 39 hr and the saturation density is
4292473|Filter paper laid upon an agar medium provided a convenient and advantageous physical substrate for the culture of plant protoplasts. The technique simplified the changing of media and, in Pteridium aquilinum, enhanced the regenerative response of the protoplasts.
4292107|Conventional methods of organ culture have proved unsatisfactory for mammalian lung because of the rapid collapse of the tissue and the loss of its normal structure. In an effort to circumvent this problem and to provide a means for visualizing the cellular relationships throughout the culture period, respiratory organs consisting of trachea and lungs of fetal or hysterectomy-derived 1- to 4-week-old pigs were embedded in warm 3% Noble agar in phosphate buffer silicone solution and cooled to firmness. By use of a described cutting device, the respective organs were sliced into thin, 0.5- to 1.0-mm tracheal ring or lung explants. These organ sections then were cultured by exposure to alternate gaseous and liquid-medium phases by rotation (12 rev per hr) in sealed Leighton tubes fitted in a described rotator. In short-term culture experiments, explants were best maintained in a culture-support medium containing Eagle's minimal essential medium, 20% fetal bovine serum, 0.5% lactalbumin hydrolysate, and other supplements in a pH range of 6.5 to 8.2, and a NaCl concentration of 0.1 M or less. By bright-field and scanning-electron microscopy, tracheal ring and lung explant cultures incubated for 2 months showed intact, uniform and active ciliated epithelial surfaces which compared favorably with those of fresh preparations. The lung cultures showed alveoli that remained expanded, and the cellular integrity of the tissues remained normal in appearance. This new method provides respiratory organs as continuous records with exceptional cellular clarity and readily available for histological processing. The organ cultures lend themselves well to pathogenesis studies in which subtle cellular changes or a sequence of changes induced in pulmonary tissues are difficult to observe in the host.
4292772|The multidisciplinary use of cell, tissue and organ culture techniques, and the attendant use of terms in an ever widening sense, has made it necessary to bring together those terms most often used by scientists employing these techniques. Thus, the Tissue Culture Association Terminology Committee publishes the following integrated listing in an attempt to avoid the confusion which arises when scientists of different disciplines give more than one definition to a particular term or use more than one term to describe the same phenomenon.
4291650|Experiments were conducted to determine the capacity of various enzyme preparations to dissociate single cells from guinea pig lung tissue. The number of cells separated from tissue progressively increased as the concentration of crude trypsin was increased from 25 to 250 mg per 100 ml. This action could be inhibited by soy bean trypsin inhibitor. Elastase, but not ethylenediaminetetraacetate (disodium salt), crystalline trypsin, nor chymotrypsin, dissociated cells from lung tissues. Crude trypsin (Trypsin 1:300) was found to contain 3.0 Sachar units of elastase per mg. Elastase was also inhibited by soy bean trypsin inhibitor. Only some collagenase preparations dissociated cells from lung tissue. Impure bacterial proteases dissociated lung cells. Our data suggest that the term "trypsinization" to denote dissociation of cells from tissue with crude preparations of trypsin is misleading and should be discontinued.
20170449|We found that fetal bovine serum supplementation of culture medium provided limited quantities of linoleic acid, an essential fatty acid, to cells grown in culture (2.8  0.3% of total fatty acids in 12 lots). Supplementation of the medium with additional linoleic acid resulted in altered phospholipid acyl composition in cells of two established lines, A549, a putative model of the pulmonary Type II epithelial cell, and SIRC, a line derived from rabbit corneal epithelium. In particular, linoleic acid supplementation induced a relative increase in disaturated choline phosphoglycerides of 33 and 36%, respectively, in cells of the two lines. This observation may be relevant to design of media for primary culture of Type II cells, in which disaturated phospholipid synthesis is used as an index of differentiated function (surfactant production). Linoleate supplementation did not alter growth or size (protein content) of cells of either line and caused a slight increase in accumulation of neutral lipid, in the form of cytoplasmic droplets, in A549 cells. Supplementation of cell cultures with equivalent concentrations of the nonessential fatty acids palmitic and oleic acid did not significantly alter the growth, morphologic appearance, or lipid composition of the cells. However, it was demonstrated in cells of one line that palmitic acid supplementation temporarily stimulated synthesis of disaturated choline phosphoglyceride from radiolabeled choline.
4291893|Clonal growth of WI-38 cells with a plating efficiency of 45% has been achieved in a synthetic nutrient mixture (MCDB 102) supplemented with either whole or dialyzed fetal bovine serum. For optimum growth, the concentration of cysteine in the medium must be adjusted precisely. Deviation by a factor of three in either direction from the optimum concentration (
4291601|Ten lots of specially procured fetal calf serum collected under sterile conditions and not filtered and 16 lots of commercial fetal calf serum were tested for both human and bovine viral contamination. The presence of viruses was evaluated by observing for cytopathogenic effect (CPE), hemadsorption with guinea pig erythrocytes, and interference with cytopathogenic challenge viruses in both embryonic bovine trachea (EBTr) and human diploid lung (HDL) cells. Isolates were characterized by their cytopathogenicity, morphology, serology, and ability to propagate and produce CPE in a variety of bovine and nonbovine cells. One isolate was unequivocally identified as bovine herpes virus 1, and the other was presumptively identified as a bovine virus-diarrhea virus.
20170532|Quail myoblasts were maintained in an undifferentiated state by first blocking differentiation with 5-bromodeoxyuridine and then reversing the block in the presence of phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate. The synthesis of quail skeletal myosin light chain 1 is induced in heterokaryons formed by fusing these undifferentiated quail myoblasts to differentiated chick myocytes. These results extend observations previously obtained using an established line of rat myoblasts and indicate that the induction is a result of regulatory interactions present in normal diploid cells.
4292704|Two human osteosarcoma cell lines (TE-85, LM-1) were adapted to grow in serum-free hydrocortisone supplemented medium. Human osteosarcoma associated antigens were detected both on the cell membrane as well as in the concentrated culture medium. TE-85 cells produced bone specific alkaline phosphatase and LM-1 cells produced both bone specific and placental-like alkaline phosphatases when cultured in this medium. Successful proliferation of human osteosarcoma cell lines in serum-free medium is valuable in human osteosarcoma research.
4292577|Using mitomycin C treated 3T3-Swiss fibroblasts as feeder cells, human keratinocytes derived from infant foreskins were subcultured in the presence of trans-retinoic acid (RA) and other retinoids. At
4292385| The BeWo line of trophoblastic cells, maintained in continuous culture since 1966, was employed to investigate the phenomenon of gonadotropin -subunit predominance that exists in several cell lines. The secretion of complete human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) relative to -subunit was compared in several different BeWo sublines, all of which were derived from BeWo stock roller tube colonies. In all of the BeWo sublines, secretion of hCG originally exceeded secretion of -subunit. With time in culture, however, there was a marked decline in production of hCG/hCG, but not in -subunit. Thus it appears that the production of hCG by BeWo choriocarcinoma cells is more labile than the production of the -subunit. 
20170271|Biopsy material, from a patient with an esophageal carcinoma of a type occurring relatively frequently in Africans in some regions of Southern Africa, has been adapted to cell culture conditions and has developed into a continuously growing tumor cell line. The cells have a squamous pattern of growth which they maintain, without piling up, even in heavily confluent cultures.
4292892|Cultures of osteoblastlike cells obtained from the endosteal surfaces of rabbit long bones formed and mineralized an extracellular matrix when they were supplied daily with medium containing fresh ascorbate. No matrix formed without this supplementation. The matrix mineralized whether or not beta-glycerophosphate, a substrate of alkaline phosphatase, was added to the medium. The ion-transporting ATPase activities of untreated, ascorbate-treated, and ascorbate plus beta-glycerophosphate-treated cells were measured. Ascorbate-treated and ascorbate plus beta-glycerophosphate-treated cells had similar enzyme activities. The activities of the
4292636|Epidemiological observations suggest that environmental factors play a role in the pathogenesis of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (1). Several chemicals have been identified as specific beta cell toxins (2-4). We report here studies to determine the feasibility of using monolayer cultures of pancreatic beta cells from neonatal rat to screen potential diabetogenic chemicals. Cytotoxicity was monitored both by phase microscopy and the release of insulin into the culture medium. In comparative studies, cellular protein and release of
20170513| Epithelial cells may relate to their basement membrane substrates via lectin-like interactions. In a model system for study of this type of interaction, lectin-coated bacteriological plastic petri dishes were presented as substrates for epithelial cell adhesion. Of 21 lectins tested by mixed agglutination against two epithelial cell types, Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK), and human embryonic kidney cells (HEK), nine gave less than 5% rosettes and 12 gave 5 to 50% rosettes. Wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) and Geodia cydonium lectin gave the highest percentage of rosettes. Wheat germ agglutinin was readily adsorbed to plastic surfaces and maintained specificity in binding interactions. Both MDCK and HEK cells attached as well as to WGA coated petri dishes as to conventional tissue culture dishes. Furthermore, both spread over the lectin-coated surfaces. The MDCK cells grew to confluence and could be subcultured and maintained indefinitely on such surfaces, although WGA in solution was toxic to the cells in concentrations as low as 0.1 to 1.0 g/ml. Cell attachment to WGA coated dishes was blocked by cycloheximide only if the cells had been preincubated with the inhibitor for several hours. Cell attachment was not inhibited by pretreatment of cells with neuraminidase. Precoating cells with WGA blocked binding to both WGA-coated surfaces and untreated tissue culture dishes. Cells attached to WGA-coated dishes could not be readily dislodged by trypsin-EDTA for the first 2 h after subculture. By 4 h, attachment was again trypsin sensitive, suggesting that the cells synthesized a trypsin-sensitive material that was laid down between the cell surface and the WGA-coated dish. Regeneration of trypsin sensitivity was not blocked by cycloheximide. 
4291658| Rat embryos removed during somite stages were attached to small rafts by using the technique described by D. A. T. New (J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 17: 513-525, 1967). The embryos were maintained in a viable growing state in circulating human serum. Twenty-four-hour cultures of day 11 rat embryos resulted in nearly normal increases in somite count, but length and protein increments were about one-half of in vivo values. After 24 hr of culture, the embryos were generally translucent and showed no apparent areas of gross or microscopic tissue necrosis. The apparatus is extremely compact and requires only about 9 ml of medium, which is sufficient to support three embryos. The small volume allows measurement of metabolites consumed or liberated with reasonable accuracy. By use of a technique of transillumination, using a laser and photomultiplying tube, a detailed and continuous record of heart rate can be made. Addition of drugs to, and sampling of, the culture medium is done easily. With this technique, a linear dependence of heart rate on temperature between 30 and 40C has been shown. Studies of energy metabolism indicated that the earliest stage studied (about 11 somites) was characterized by a relatively high glucose utilization rate, with the major end product appearing as lactate. Further evidence that this stage was functioning anaerobically was shown by the presence of a resistance to aerobiosis. Embryos with 25 or more somites utilized less glucose, produced less lactate, and were damaged by lack of oxygen. 
20170307|The relationships between fetal bovine serum (FBS) concentration and polyene macrolide antibiotic cytotoxicity to animal cells and to fungi were evaluated. The toxicity of amphotericin B (AB) and its derivative, amphotericin B methyl ester (AME), toward KB cells was found to be directly related to fetal bovine serum concentration. At higher FBS levels, increased concentrations of AB and AME were required to reduce 72-hr KB viable cell numbers to 50% of control values. Similarly, polyene macrolide antibiotic levels required to inhibit the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to 50% of controls, and for obtaining minimum fungicidal concentrations (MFC), were greater when higher levels of FBS were used. In addition, AME was less toxic than AB toward KB cells grown in media containing 2, 5, 10, 15 or 20% FBS, whereas the antifungal activities of AB and AME were similar. AME was also capable of eliminating Candida albicans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Aspergillus niger or Fusarium moniliforme from KB cultures at antibiotic levels which exhibited less cell toxicity than did the concentrations of AB required for a similar response. These findings indicate that AME may be a potentially useful antifungal antibiotic for tissue culture systems.
4292451|We have compared intercellular communication in normal and regenerating rat liver. Gap junctions are greatly reduced in size and numbers 29 to 35 hr after hepatectomy, but we still find some 90% of hepatocytes coupled by electrophysiological criteria. The spread of dyes such as carboxyfluorescein however is very limited in the regenerating organs as compared to the situation in the controls. We show how the apparent discrepancies between morphological and physiological data can be reconciled. We also present a summary of preliminary findings on the biosynthesis of gap junction protein and some of the conclusions one can draw from the sequence of 58 amino acids at the amino terminal of the protein.
20170540| Segments of rat carotid artery were maintained in serum-free or serum-supplemented medium for 2 wk, and at intervals of 3, 7, and 14 d the morphology and pattern of matrix synthesis were compared to those in vivo. In serum-free medium and 0.2% serum both the endothelium and the smooth muscle cells (SMC) could be maintained with a minimum of change for 7 d and without substantial change for 14 d. In 2% and 10% serum there was little change for the first 3 d, but subsequently there was a progressive overlapping of the endothelial cells to produce a 3 to 4 layered cell sheet, often separated from the subendothelial matrix; the SMC, however, did not appear to proliferate or migrate and in general retained their typical cellular features for the full time in culture. The synthesis of matrix components was measured by autoradiographic detection of incorporated [H]glucosamine and S. At all time periods and serum concentrations the percentage distribution for each label across the arterial wall was found to be similar to that in live animals injected with the same labels. [H]Glucosamine predominated in the endothelium and the narrow subendothelial layer, which together make up the intima, whereas S predominated in the media. In vitro more than 50% of the [H]glucosamine in the intima and 40% in the adjacent first layer of the media was susceptible to Streptomyces hyaluronidase. As the morphology of both cell types and their synthesis of matrix components could be maintained in organ culture without substantial change we believe that the rat carotid artery may be a suitable model for the investigation of factors affecting arterial structure. 
4292359|Reduction mammoplasty tissue was used to obtain short-term cultures of human epithelial cell populations. Digestion of tissue with collagenase and hyaluronidase resulted in cell clusters (organoids) resembling ductal and alveolar structures; these could be separated by filtration from the stromal components. Epithelial outgrowth from these organoids was greatly enhanced by the addition of conditioned medium from other human epithelial and myoepithelial cell lines. Additionally, the mammary epithelial growth was stimulated by insulin, hydrocortisone, epidermal growth factor, and steroid hormones. With this enriched nutritional environment, active cell division could be maintained for 1 to 3 months and cells could be serially subcultured 1 to 4 times.
4291634|The properties of agglutination by plant lectins, along with chromosome patterns, were examined in a variety of mammalian cell types. Untransformed adult and embryonic cells in culture, direct mouse spleen cell preparations, SV40-transformed 3T3 cells, and trypsinized 3T3 cells were all highly agglutinable with concanavalin A and with wheat germ agglutinin. In contrast, untreated cells of the contact-inhibited 3T3 line were alone among the cells tested in their low agglutinability. Chromosome analysis of the cultured cells showed that karyotypic variation from the diploid to an aneuploid state in mouse and rat embryo cultures was not accompanied by a change in agglutinability. Adult rat lung, adult monkey kidney, and embryonic human lung cells, which were all highly agglutinable, showed the normal diploid pattern. Thus, agglutination of cells by plant lectins appears to be a cellular property often associated with non-neoplastic cells.
4292227|Antisera produced to mammary adipose cells from midpregnant BALB/c females can be used to distinguish mammary adipose cells from mammary epithelial cells and fibroblasts. The mammary adipose membrane antigen detected by indirect immunofluorescence was found in adipose cells from (a) mammary glands of virgin, midpregnant and lactating mice; (b) mammary fat pads that had been surgically cleared of glandular elements; and (c) epididymis. In all tissues, this cell-surface antigen was removed by the enzymatic action used to dissociate the cells from the tissues and was shown to be fully restored when cells were cultured for 48 hr.
4292445|The rat hepatoma cell line, H4-II-E, was grown serially over a 1-year period and about 30 passages in arginine-, glutamine-, and tyrosine-deprived and ornithine-supplemented Eagle's minimum essential medium with no supplements other than biotin. The adapted cell line, R-Y121B, proliferates in the above mentioned medium with a doubling time of about 4 days and maintains hepatic "marker" enzymes such as tyrosine aminotransferase, phenylalanine hydroxylase, and all the enzymes of the urea cycle.
4292238|Ultrastructural characteristics as well as secretory and biosynthetic behavior of monolayer pancreatic cell cultures established from 4-day-old C57BL/KsJ misty diabetic (m db/m db) mice have been studied in comparison to normal littermate controls. Hyper-secretion of glucagon by
4292051|
               
4291719|Assessment of the nutritional requirements of cultured plant cells and organs can be simplified by considering separately the inorganic salts, the organic constituents, and the natural complexes of undefined composition. There appears to be a high degree of constancy in the salt requirements of diverse plants and their organs. The same salt provisions also appear to be satisfactory in the pursuit of a variety of research objectives. The salt requirement usually can be determined by comparing the morphogenic responses of a plant culture to some of the major formulae. In constrast, the requirements with respect to the organic constituents are not so constant. Some organic compounds serve growth regulatory functions. Close attention should be paid to the hormonal substances, especially auxin and cytokinin. Assessment of hormonal requirements should consider the kinds and interactions of the hormones. Two other organic constituents are generally essential to plant cell and organ cultures : a sugar and the vitamin, thiamin. It is important only that adequate amounts of these two substances are provided. Sucrose has been satisfactory as the sugar in most cases. Natural complexes of undefined composition should be included in culture media only as a last resort. The form in which the medium is provided and the culture conditions with respect to light and temperature may also influence nutritional requirements.
20170414|Cell proliferation and collagen synthesis were analyzed in high, medium, and low density keloid and normal skin fibroblasts and also at various times during the course of in vitro aging to expand previous findings of increased collagen synthesis in keloid compared to normal skin fibroblasts. It was found that both keloid and normal fibroblasts (&lt;20 population doublings) responded similarly to high, medium, and low initial plating densities; however, sparsely plated keloid fibroblasts exhibited a loss of replicative capacity earlier in their in vitro lifespan than did sparsely plated normal skin fibroblasts. When analyzed at population doubling levels 2 to 38, collagen synthesis was elevated in keloid compared to normal skin fibroblasts but decreased at the same rate in both cell types throughout this in vitro interval.
4292324|A procedure for the cultivation of mesentery is described, in which the culture is fully representative of the tissue of origin. The intact mesenteric membrane - exposed to a minimum of trauma - was spread out over a hole in a filter paper strip in fluid medium and was cultivated free-hanging. Specimens from rats and guinea pigs were used. The organ culture model appears especially apt for cytochemical and proliferation studies. Proliferation variables based on Feulgen DNA analysis in individual, morphologically defined cells and on mitotic counting and radiochemical analysis were estimated. The tissue was fully viable in chemically defined growth medium and showed an almost unaltered light microscopical appearance after up to 52 hr in culture.
4292755|Although bovine adrenocortical cells proliferate readily in cell culture, proliferation of fetal or adult human adrenocortical cells has been observed to be limited and preparation of pure proliferating cultures of human adrenocortical cells has not been reported. The growth requirements of fetal human definitive zone adrenocortical cells in culture were compared to the established requirements of bovine adrenocortical cells. The medium used was 1:1 Ham's F12 and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with transferrin and insulin. Earlier experiments showed that human cells had a greater proliferative response to horse serum than to fetal bovine serum, whereas the opposite was true for bovine cells. When plated on fibronectin-coated dishes and exposed to varying concentrations of horse serum in the presence of 100 ng/ml fibroblast growth factor (FGF), increasing cell growth was observed up to a serum concentration of 50%. When 50% fetal bovine serum was used instead of horse serum proliferation was less. In contrast, bovine adrenocortical cells showed a maximal proliferative response to either fetal bovine serum or horse serum at 10%. Human adrenocortical cells thus have a very high requirement for serum; 50% is the highest level that may be practically used, but the shape of the dose-response curve suggests that this concentration is still suboptimal. Growth was less in the absence of FGF. Epidermal growth factor can partially substitute for FGF. No response to 100 nM placental lactogen was observed. Less growth was observed when dishes were not coated with fibronectin. The factors present in horse serum that are evidently needed in high amounts by human cells are unknown. Despite this lack of knowledge, use of 50% horse serum enabled long-term growth of human adrenocortical cells that are pure by the criterion of retraction in response to ACTH. Nonadrenocortical cells do not show a retraction response. Such long-term cultures may be useful in studies of long-term regulation of differentiated function, aging, and carcinogenesis.
20170508|Mammary epithelial cells from lactating mice synthesize and secrete lactose in culture and retain many features of their in vivo morphology if mammary glands are only partially dissociated to alveoli, rather than completely dissociated to single cells. After 5 d in culture lactose synthesis by alveoli cultured on floating collagen gels is 10 to 20 times higher than in cultures of single cells on floating collagen gels. Moreover, mammary alveoli in culture retain sensitivity to lactogenic hormones; the synthesis of lactose by alveoli depends on the continued presence of insulin and either hydrocortisone or prolactin. In addition, within alveoli the original juxtaposition of constituent epithelial cells is retained, and cells are cuboidal and have many microvilli and fat droplets. In contrast, alveoli on attached gels flatten and lose their secretory morphology. These results indicate that the shape of the cells, presence of lactogenic hormones, and maintenance of epithelial:epithelial cell contacts are required for maintenance of mammary epithelial cell differentiation in culture.
20170531| A series of five discrete virus replicating insect cell lines were isolated from the ovarian and fat body tissues of Heliothis zea pupae. Two of these cell lines (IPLB-HZ-1075 and -HZ-1079) were studied in depth as to their growth and virus replication responses to specific nutrients (acetyl--methylcholine, fresh glutamine) in a number of media. The same two cell lines were identified to species by serological (microimmunodiffusion) and isozyme (phosphoglucoisomerase and peptidase:glycyl-leucine) techniques. Distinguishing comparisons were made with other cell lines that have been confused with the present lines in the literature and with cell line and host pupal extracts from the same and other lepidopteran species studied concurrently in this laboratory. Sterility culture tests were negative for mycoplasmas. The present five H. zea lines were the first insect cell lines to replicate polyhedra from a unicapsid multiple embedded nuclear polyhedrosis virus (Baculovirus Group A), in this case the homologous virus obtained from larvae of H. zea. 
4292459|Paraquat-resistant cell lines and plants were isolated from cell cultures of Nicotiana tabacum var. Wisconsin 38. The resistant phenotype was successfully obtained from both callus and plated suspension cultures; however, recovery of phenotypically stable, resistant cell lines was higher among those derived from suspension cultures. The use of X-rays increased the recovery of paraquat-resistant cell lines. Stepwise selection procedures did not increase recovery of the resistant phenotype. Only 15 of 43 plants regenerated from paraquat-resistant cell lines retained the resistant phenotype; however, calli derived from leaves of both resistant and nonresistant plants exhibited either partial or complete resistance.
4292748|There is increasing interest in human umbilical cord vein as a source of endothelial cells. This paper shows that success in setting up cultures of human endothelial cells from umbilical cords depends not only on culture conditions, as so far proposed, but also on factors preceding the harvesting of the cells. In particular, the mother's smoking habit and the use of umbilical cord within 1 h of delivery have been shown to impair success of the culture. Age, parity, diabetes, and hypertension of the mother, type of delivery, and sex and weight of the newborn did not significantly influence the possibility of establishing successful endothelial cell culture.
4292435|Four cell lines have been isolated from Drosophila hydei embryos. Three lines have a normal XY karyotype, the fourth has an XO karyotype with an additional small heterochromatic fragment. The cells contain presumable cytoplasmic virus like particles.
4292567|Using lipochromosomes (phospholipid-entrapped chromosomes) we have transferred the human HGPRT gene into HGPRT deficient mouse cells (A9) with a frequency of approximately 1  10
20170529|Cell line CEC-32 and clone LSCC-H32 were established from primary chicken embryo cells spontaneously but not experimentally transformed at 32 C. The lines consisted of fibroblastoid and polygonal cells and had a subtetraploid karyotype of 2N = 130 to 140. The cells showed increased plating efficiency and metabolic activities as demonstrated by hexose uptake and plasminogen activator assay. The established cells produced avian lymphoid leukosis viruses of subgroups A and B. The virus released from LSCC-H32 cells induced lymphoid leukosis in inoculated chickens 18 to 22 wk post infection (PI). The cells have been carried in continuous culture for 285 passages and they appeared to grow indefinitely. They were efficiently used to propagate several animal viruses and to titrate chicken interferon.
4292767|Proliferation of the hamster ductus deferens cloned tumor cell line (
4292142|Endothelial cells were harvested from bovine aorta and saphenous vein with collagenase and cultured in McCoy's 5a medium (modified GIBCO) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. The cells were subcultured through 17 passages over 4 to 5 months. The growth properties in culture of the two cell types were compared. Morphological comparisons included phase microscopy and scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Comparisons with cultured aortic smooth-muscle cells were made using phase and scanning electron microscopy. No differences were found between cultured endothelial cells from aorta and saphenous vein. Differences in growth patterns in culture clearly distinguished both endothelial cell types from smooth-muscle cells. The presence of Weibel-Palade bodies identified the cells from both sources as endothelial.
20170258|A major cause of tissue culture medium deterioration is exposure to room fluorescent light. Riboflavin and tryptophan present in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's minimum essential medium, when exposed to light, yield toxic photoproducts responsible for loss of the ability of the medium to support clonal growth of human, mouse and Chinese hamster cell lines. Procedures for minimizing medium deterioration are discussed.
4292386| The toxic effects of 6-hydroxydopamine on the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-SH-SY5Y (SY5Y) and the Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line were measured with five viability assays. Four of the assays (attachment efficiency, plating efficiency, amino acid incorporation into acid-precipitable proteins, and Trypan Blue dye exclusion) showed higher drug susceptibility in SY5Y cells than CHO cells. Only growth inhibition (proliferation index) gave results indicating greater sensitivity in CHO cells. Over a time span of 48 hr, injured cell populations lost vital functions in the following order: attachment ability, amino acid incorporation, proliferative capacity, and dye exclusion. Recovery of each of the functions occurred in sublethally injured populations. Monitoring the extinction and recovery of vital functions permitted the accurate determination of a drug concentration (30 g/ml) selectively toxic for SY5Y cells. A strong correlation was noted between relative values for amino acid incorporation 3 hr after drug treatment, attachment efficiency at 24 hr, and dye exclusion at 24 and 48 hr. We concluded that Trypan Blue dye exclusion and amino acid incorporation were suitable methods for comparing the effects of cytotoxins on different cell lines, provided they were performed at the appropriate time after treatment with the toxin. The combined techniques yield both population and individual cell data, are simple to do, and are applicable to nondividing cell populations. 
4291924|Sheep choroid plexus (SCP) cells have been subcultured more than 120 times and have undergone over 300 cell generations. These fibroblastic-appearing SCP II-B cells contain ovine-specific antigens, have an absolute plating efficiency of 23 to 28% and are as susceptible to visna virus infection and virus-induced cytopathology as their low passage level counterparts. Cultures of low, relatively high and high passage level SCP cells produced equivalent amounts of visna virus at similar rates when infected with equal amounts of visna virus. The passage level of the SCP II-B cells, their elapsed number of cell generations, their possession of ovine-specific antigens and their full susceptibility to visna virus allow these cells to be considered an established line of sheep cells.
4291906|The use of a semi-natural medium (Eagle's MEM supplemented with chicken embryo extract) appears to be satisfactory for ovarian and testicular fragment cultures of Carassius auratus. The male germ cells show a normal degeneration which might be attributed to a lack of pituitary hormones: gonadotropic and, possibly, somatotropic hormone. The ovarian fragments maintain a normal organization during 21 days of culture. Only the oocytes in late vitellogenesis massively atresiate at the beginning of culture. The addition of fetal bovine serum to this medium produces surprising effects on the testicular explants, particularly on the spermatogonial mitoses. This might be attributed to the presence of STH and androgen in the serum. The modifications of ovarian explants, on the other hand, are identical to those observed with Eagle's MEM supplemented with chicken embryo extract. M 199 has been tested as a synthetic medium; the preliminary results are encouraging. Testosterone, when added to the semi-natural medium, permits complete spermatogenesis in the testicular fragments during the 21 days of culture, but does not produce any effect on the ovarian explants.
4291801|This report describes in detail a method of enzymatic separation of adult mammalian muscle using papain. The procedure has proved valuable in the preparation of suspensions of muscle cell pieces from normal human skeletal muscle obtained from patients of all ages, from 3 months to 79 years. Muscle cultures have been successfully grown from biopsy material from boys with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy and from their mothers. The procedure was initially established with adult canine skeletal muscle and has also been used for monkey muscle. Small pieces of skeletal muscle are chopped in a solution of 0.05% papain and 0.01% cysteine hydrochloride in Ca
4292240|Cultures of embryonic rat brain and liver, and embryonic turkey brain were inoculated with sporozoites of Plasmodium berghei. Sporozoites succeeded in establishing exoerythrocytic infections in approximately 10% of the cultures. The exoerythrocytic parasites developed to a late schizont stage with some showing early segmentation although free merozoites were not observed. The morphology and rate of development of the exoerythrocytic parasites in culture appear similar to that seen in vivo.
4292541|This paper describes the growth and differentiation of an established, feeder layer independent line of rat keratinocytes originally developed from tongue epithelium. The cells grew from any seeding density with a population doubling time of 14 to 16 h and a plating efficiency of 60 to 90%. The cells were kept in continuous culture for more than 3 yr and were cloned several times during this period. After more than 700 population doublings the cultures maintained typical expressions of the keratinocyte phenotype such as desmosomes and tonofilaments. The cells required 10 to 15% fetal bovine serum but no additional supplement of growth factors. Single colonies, as well as confluent multilayers, keratinized and displayed the whole complement of keratinization markers including keratin filaments, cornified envelopes, increased plasma membrane permeability, and destruction of cytoplasmic and nuclear components. However, the ability to stratify in a regular manner was lost although sporadic attempts of stratification were present. In suspension culture the cells terminally differentiated in 1 to 2 wk and developed highly cross-linked cornified envelopes that were resistant to boiling detergent solutions under reducing conditions. Chromosome numbers were in the diploid range (2N = 38 to 46), but aberrations were frequent.
4292400|A procedure is described for the isolation and cultivation of microvascular endothelium from human skin. Neonatal foreskins are pooled, washed, minced, and dissociated by a mixture of collagenase and dispase. Microvascular endothelium, liberated in the form of intact capillary fragments, is incompletely separated from fibroblasts and epidermal cells by sieving through nylon mesh, followed by velocity sedimentation on 5% bovine serum albumin. The endothelium-enriched fraction has been maintained in primary culture for up to 3 weeks. The resulting epithelioid colonies have been characterized morphologically by both light and transmission electron microscopy and manifest all of the structural features that distinguish other, large-vessel endothelia in culture. In addition, immunohistochemical studies using an indirect fluorescent antibody technique demonstrate that these cells contain the endothelium-specific product, Factor VIII antigen.
4292427|Three monkey kidney cell lines and primary chicken embryo cells were grown in microcarrier culture. The carrier support was DEAE-Sephadex gel beads at low anion exchange capacity prepared according to a protocol developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The growth rate of the cells and the final cell density in microcarrier culture was dependent on the concentration of the beads in culture and on the size of the initial cell inoculum. A bead concentration of 1.0 to 2.0 mg of beads/ml of tissue culture medium and a cell inoculum of
20170517|Cultured human pancreatic carcinoma cells (MIA PaCa-2) have been shown previously to be very sensitive to E. coli L-asparaginase (EC II). The present studies have demonstrated that another enzyme, Acinetobacter glutaminase-asparaginase (AGA) is much more effective in inhibiting cell growth. At the concentration of 0.0025 U/ml of AGA activity the enzyme totally inhibited cell growth, whereas the EC II with the same concentration did not show any effect. The inhibition of cell growth correlated well with inhibition of protein and glycoprotein synthesis. The addition of L-glutamine at the concentration of 1 mM completely reversed the inhibition of protein synthesis. Similarly, the addition of L-glutamine at the concentration of 3 mM daily on 3 successive days after adding AGA resulted in significant reversal of growth inhibition. The results of this study indicate that the action of AGA on MIA PaCa-2 is, to a great extent, exerted through its L-glutaminase activity.
4292283|Using gels of acid-soluble collagen as a culture surface, trypsin-released keratinocytes from 0.1-mm split-thickness sections of newborn foreskin may be plated with high efficiency and subcultured at a 1:5 split at 2- to 3-week intervals for three subpassages. When plated at a density of
4292382|Tissue specific qualitative variation in the zymmogram profile of alcohol dehydrogenase in carrot is described. Extracts made from roots and petiole tissues of the plant exhibit three and two bands of activity, respectively. No alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity is detectable in lamina extracts. Similar extracts from carrot cells cultured in vitro exhibit five bands of ADH activity. However, when the same cell line is cultured in medium either lacking auxin (2,4-D) or Zn
4292281|Parenchymal hepatocytes isolated from adult rats were cultured on three types of collagen-containing substrata: collagen-coated plates, collagen membranes and confluent diploid human fibroblasts. Hepatocytes on the latter two substrata maintained characteristic morphology for at least 10 days in culture, whereas degenerative changes (cell death and formation of multinucleated hepatocytes) and growth of nonparenchymal elements were seen after 5 days in cultures on collagen-coated plates. Parallel findings were seen on basal and induced levels of cytochrome P-450 and NADPH-cytochrome C reductase. The basal levels of cytochrome P-450 were not measurable after day 3 in hepatocytes cultured on collagen-coated plates, whereas measurable levels were maintained in the hepatocytes cultured on the other two substrata. Addition of phenobarbital or methylcholanthrene at day 5 in culture caused an increase in cytochromes P-450 and P-448, respectively, only in hepatocytes cultured on collagen membranes and confluent fibroblasts. Analogous results were seen for the enzyme NADPH-cytochrome C reductase. The similarities in performance between hepatocytes on collagen membranes and on human fibroblasts show that a continuous collagen-containing substratum is important for optimal performance of hepatocytes in primary culture. The possible importance of cultures of hepatocytes on human fibroblasts for carcinogenesis studies is discussed.
4292457|Nexus (gap junctions), which are considered to contain cell-to-cell channels, are newly formed in uterine smooth muscle during parturition or in response to estrogen treatment of virginal animals. A mRNA preparation was isolated from estrogen-dominated rat myometria and was encapsulated into liposomes. Subsequently the liposomes were fused with cultured cells of a mouse cell line CL-1D. It is established that these tumor cells normally are neither electrically coupled nor do they contain nexus. The cells, however, become electrically coupled a few hours after being loaded with the mRNA preparation. This de novo expression of cell coupling persisted for a little more than 24 hr after a single loading procedure. Freeze-fracture electron microscopy revealed small nexus-like particle aggregates at the time coupling was present. In control experiments the cells remained noncoupling when the RNA preparation was pretreated with ribonuclease, when cycloheximide was applied to the cells, or when liposomes filled with buffer solution only were used. These data suggest that the de novo expression of cell-to-cell coupling is accomplished by mRNA-induced protein biosynthesis resulting in the formation of cell-to-cell channels.
4292484|Six new cell lines were established in continous culture from embryonic tissues of ixodid ticks. Four were from Dermacentor variabilis and two from D. parumapertus. The cells are mostly fibroblastic and diploid. Mosquito-borne viruses (Chikungunya, O'nyong, yellow fever, and St. Louis encephalitis) as well as tick-borne ones (Langat, Powassan, Colorado tick fever, Kemerovo, and Sawgrass) replicated in certain of these cell lines, but a nonvector-borne flavivirus, Modoc, did not. An undescribed virus from D. occidentalis ticks, which could not be isolated in Vero cells or newborn mice, was readily isolated in the D. variabilis cell line.
4292315|Cloned cell lines were established from two swine with radiation-induced myeloproliferative disorders, including one cell culture from an animal with myelogenous leukemia and one from an animal with myeloid metaplasia. A third cloned cell line with similar morphology was established from pooled normal fetal swine cornea to compare the growth characteristics of cells from normal and irradiated swine. All three cell lines grew as foci of aggregated cells and were able to form macroscopic colonies in semisolid agar medium. The lack of normal mechanisms of contact inhibition and the observed aneuploidy indicated that these cells were morphologically transformed. Further, the cloned cells caused tumors in nude mice, clearly indicating that these cells were also malignantly transformed. A major difference between these cell lines was that type C viruses were observed only in the cells derived from swine with myeloproliferative disorders.
4292100|Human trophoblast isolation and cell culture procedures were examined to identify variables that enhance secretion of chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) in primary culture. Brief exposure of unminced first-trimester placental specimens to a solution of trypsin-EDTA-DNAse, and isolation of the dispersed cells after Ficoll-hypaque centrifugation yielded primary cultures that were high in HCG secretion and content of epithelial-like cells. The gradual decline in HCG level with time in monolayer culture in these presumptive trophoblast cells was retarded by treatment with theophylline and cyclic adenosine monophosphate. Exposure to methotrexate (MTX) did not increase HCG secretion in normal trophoblast cells, in contrast to a 5-fold stimulation by MTX in the JAR line of choriocarcinoma cells. Clusters of polygonal cells in primary culture progressively lost their capacity to secrete HCG and their epithelial-like morphology. However, they could be maintained as cell strains through approximately 15 passages over a period of 13 to 16 weeks.
4291571|The parent and two sub clones of the L-M cell line were grown in shake, spinner, and monolayer culture in the presence or absence of 10% bovine serum and assayed to determine the effect of different cultural conditions upon enzyme activity. The assay variability itself was 5 to 13%. Growth of duplicate cultures and independent processing increased the over-all variability to 13 to 48%, depending upon which enzyme was being assayed. Lactic dehydrogenase activity was 2-fold greater and malic dehydrogenase activity was 3-fold greater in spinner culture than in shake culture. Zymograms from serum-free spinner cultures showed the characteristic clonal differences reported previously (6); however, no differences were observed among the cells grown in monolayer or shake culture. The presence of 10% bovine serum markedly lowered the generation time of shake cultures and also lowered the specific activities of three enzymes. This lowering of enzyme specific activity was moderated depending upon the method of cell culture. The physical and nutritional environment of the cell greatly affects its enzyme activity.
4292266|Results of growth history studies on IMR-90 and WI-38 showed that the two cell strains were equivalent in population doublings achieved per life span. However, IMR-90 exhibited higher cell yields in phase II than did WI-38. In addition, entry of IMR-90 cells into phase III occurred more abruptly than in WI-38 cultures. Cell sizing analysis showed that phase II and phase III IMR-90 cell populations contained greater numbers of cells in the small volume categories. At senescence, both cell lines contained similar numbers of cells in all size categories. These data suggest that IMR-90 may not be equivalent in all respects to current stocks of WI-38.
4291865|A technique for initiating cultures of epithelial (urothelial) cells from mammalian urinary bladder has been described. Urothelial cells obtained by this method have been used to support replication of viruses and as controls for immunological, biochemical, chromosome, and electron microscopy studies. Both light and electron microscopic studies of cultured cells suggest that they are epithelial and not a mixed culture.
4292797|The electrophoretic mobilities of isozymes from 16 enzyme systems were determined for nine fish cell lines. The relative migration of the malate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphoglucose dehydrogenase isozymes could be used together to distinguish between seven of the fish cell lines. Two cyprinid cell lines could not be distinguished from each other but were readily separated from the six noncyprinid lines and the one other line of cyprinid origin.
4292412|The effect of spermidine and fetal bovine serum on DNA, RNA, and protein synthesis in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human lymphocytes was investigated. At 10
4292196|Putrescine-oxidase activity was found in fetal bovine serum (FBS) with a pH optimum of 8.0 and in adult bovine serum (ABS) with a pH optimum of 9.8. The crude FBS enzyme had a K
4292590|The murine peritoneal cavity contains factors that inhibit the in vitro growth and colony formation of macrophages. The inhibition of macrophage growth is not due to cell death. In the presence of inhibitors, the growth of colony-forming macrophages is suppressed, and small clusters are formed as a result of limited proliferation. The more mature mononuclear phagocytes (blood monocytes and peritoneal exudate macrophages) are more sensitive to the overall inhibitory effect of the peritoneal inhibitors than the less mature bone marrow mononuclear phagocytes. Furthermore, using dialysis and Amicon ultrafiltration, at least two inhibitors with differential inhibitory effects can be demonstrated. The colony formation of bone marrow mononuclear phagocytes is suppressed mainly by a protease-resistant, small molecular weight (<l,000) dialyzable inhibitor. In contrast, peritoneal exudate macrophages are sensitive to both the small molecular weight inhibitor and a protease-sensitive, large molecular weight (>12,000), nondialyzable inhibitor. The data suggest a possible existence of a dual inhibitor control on the proliferation of mononuclear phagocytes in vivo. In addition, the in vitro cultured peritoneal exudate cells are capable of producing inhibitors that mimic the activity of the in vivo inhibitors.
4292843|The cell-substratum adhesive characteristics of cultured chick embryo primary mesoderm cells have been examined by interference reflection microscopy and transmission electron microscopy under various conditions. Correlations were drawn between the type of adhesion and the degree of motility shown by the cells. During the rapid spreading and motility of cells cultured on fibronectin-containing substrata, focal contacts (10 to 15-nm gap) were rare and close contacts (about 30-nm gap) were predominant. By contrast, when the cells were immobile, after 5 d in culture, extensive focal contacts were present, together with stress fibers. The results indicate that tight cell-substratum contact is incompatible with rapid cell motility and that fibronectin acts by inducing the formation of close contacts rather than focal contacts.
4291717|Lymphoblastoid cells were cultured from two Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) inoculated white-lipped marmosets and from one HVS-inoculated owl monkey. Cells from all three animals grew clumped in suspension. The cells from both species were diploid in chromosome number and showed no unusual chromosomal abnormalities. The marmoset cell line examined was chimaeric. The marmoset cells lacked HVS-associated antigens as determined by immunofluorescence, and no evidence for the presence of virus was found by either infectivity assays or electron microscopy. Cocultivation of these cells with Vero cells resulted in cytopathology and the recovery of complete, infectious virus. The owl monkey lymphoid cells were positive to a small degree for both viral antigens and infectivity. The cells were resistant to rechallenge with HVS. Cocultivation of these cells with Vero cells led to the development of cytopathology and an increased yield of virus.
4292665|MRC-5 human lung fibroblasts maintained in Eagle's basal medium (BME) with either 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) or 10% newborn bovine serum (NBS) did not respond identically to infection by Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Fibroblasts grown in NBS did not develop any cytopathic effect (CPE) when infected with M. pneumoniae, whereas those maintained in FBS developed a pronounced CPE. There was also a difference in sensitivity to infection for fibroblasts maintained in the two sera before the infection. Fibroblasts maintained in NBS, then transferred to FBS 48 h before infection, were still less sensitive to M. pneumoniae infection than cells maintained constantly in FBS. Mycoplasma pneumoniae attached comparably to the fibroblasts grown in the two sera, so the differences in CPE development could not be attributed to differences in mycoplasma attachment. Measurements of DNA, RNA, and protein syntheses of the fibroblasts grown in NBS and FBS indicate that the cells in NBS were growing more rapidly than those in FBS. A determination of the doubling times shows that the doubling time of cells in NBS was 44 h, whereas that of cells in FBS was 51 h. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of samples of NBS and FBS showed significant differences in serum protein composition. The NBS had several protein bands that were lacking in the FBS. This study demonstrates the importance of serum effects in the study of M. pneumoniae infection.
4292578|Six established cell lines have been generated from embryos of Drosophila melanogaster homozygous for different X-linked mutations. Four of these mutants confer hypersensitivity to chemical mutagens in larvae. The cell lines derived from the two mutagen-insensitive stocks serve as controls in the analyses of DNA metabolism. One cell line (UCD-Dm-mei-9-2) is uniquely identified by a strong hypersensitivity to ultraviolet radiation. Another (UCD-Dm-mus104-1) expresses an enzyme variant not found in the other lines. The population doubling time for these cultures varies between 24 and 47 h. Labeling indices of 24.4 to 37.5% were found. The duration of the S phase in one of the control cell lines is estimated to be about 9 h. Karyotype stability was monitored for five lines over a period of about 1 y. In general these cultures each became hypotetraploid with a preferential loss of the Y and fourth chromosomes. DNA synthesis in two of the lines fails to exhibit the pattern of sensitivity to mutagens or caffeine that is observed in the corresponding primary cultures. In primary cultures three classes of cells can be identified by autoradiography. About 50% of the cells label at a moderate rate, 20% do not label within the first 1.5 d of culture, and the remaining cells exhibit a burst of labeling shortly after the cultures are initiated.
4292043|A cell cycle analysis of the Trichoplusia ni (TN-368) insect cell line is described. By means of autoradiography and percent labeled metaphase data, the cell cycle parameters were determined to be as follows: S, 4.5 hr; G
4291919| Contamination and low viability of earthworm coelomocytes in tissue culture have delayed in vitro studies. Using penicillin, streptomycin, tetracycline and Amphotericin B, Lumbricus terrestis coelomocytes were maintained viable and uncontaminated for 10 days at 15C in medium L-15 supplemented with 5 to 10% fetal bovine serum. The coelomocytes survived for at least 10 days with 85% viability as assessed by trypan blue exclusion assays and phagocytosis of heat-killed yeast. Studies on the thymidine uptake, however, were negative. With the involvement of coelomocytes in tissue graft rejection, in vitro techniques can now be applied to study their capacity in the immune response. 
4292381| The effects of dexamethasone on multiple metabolic functions of adult rat hepatocytes in monolayer culture were studied. Adult rat liver parenchymal cells were isolated by collagenase perfusion and cultured as a primary monolayer in HI/WO/BA, a serum free, completely defined, synthetic culture medium. Cells inoculated into the culture medium formed a monolayer within 24 hr. Electron microscopy showed that the cells in primary culture had a fine structure identical to liver parenchymal cells in vivo, including the observation of desmosomes and bile canaliculi in intercellular space. There was significant gluconeogenesis by the cells 24 hr postinoculation but it had decreased markedly by 48 hr. There was a marked induction of tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) by dexamethasone, which was maintained for up to 72 hr postinoculation of cells. The transport of -aminoisobutyric acid into the cells in monolayer culture was stimulated by dexamethasone and was dependent on the concentration of dexamethasone. Albumin synthesis and secretion by the cells was measured by a quantitative electroimmunoassay. Albumin production was shown to increase linearly over an incubation period of 24 to 48 hr postinoculation. Dexamethasone depressed the albumin synthesis. The effects of dexamethasone are slow, and at times require more than 6 hr to show variation from the control, indicating that dexamethasone is not a single controlling hormone. Possibly it functions in a cooperative and coordinating role in the regulation of cell metabolism. 
4292715|We have examined the conditions for cultivation of enzymatically dispersed cells from 34 human urothelial transitional cell carcinomas (TCC) of various types. By employing two culture methods, stationary and tapping suspension, and by using the synthetic medium DM 160 supplement with human umbilical cord serum and fetal bovine serum, six cell strains were established. In two strains the tapping suspension culture method was suitable for growth of highly malignant cancer cells that detach easily from the glass surface in stationary cultures. Each of the six cell strains has been maintained in culture for over 30 months with repeated subcultures of 32 to 128 times. The histopathological features of the original TCC were three differentiated papillary types and three anaplastic nonpapillary types. In two cell strains from TCC with low malignancy, however, the cancer masses that formed in nude mice differed from the original TCC in which they became more malignant, and one cell strain resembled the original TCC closely. In three stationary culture cell strains the epithelial nature was demonstrated by the presence of desmosomes and tonofilaments. In one cell strain only tonofilaments were present. In two tapping suspension culture cell strains the presence of desmosomes was not shown clearly, but fine tonofilaments were observed in one cell strain.
4292550|Cell cultures of the continuous human neuroblastoma lines SK-N-SH, SK-N-BE(2), and SK-N-MC at exponential and stationary growth phase have been examined by electron microscopy. At the level of fine structure these cells did not show typical neuronal differentiation such as extensive granular endoplasmic reticulum or neurites with microtubules and neurofilaments. Instead they were characterized by abundant free ribosomes, moderate Golgi complexes, and usually scant granular endoplasmic reticulum, features similar to the fine structure of early normal embryonic autonomic neurons. However, in several respects appearance of differentiated features of the neuroblastoma cells did not follow the pattern observed for normal neurons, suggesting noncoordinate expression of neuronal phenotypic properties. First, an occasional neuroblastoma cell had as extensive granular endoplasmic reticulum as would be found at later stages in normal developing neurons. Second, the cellular processes of these neuroblastoma cells did not have the fine structure of developing or mature axons in vivo. Third, few dense core vesicles were found in SK-N-SH and SK-N-BE(2), though these organelles are numerous in early normal adrenergic neurons and the adrenergic character of these two lines is apparent from other studies that have demonstrated expression of neurotransmitter synthesizing enzymes (SK-N-MC is cholinergic). The fine structural characterization of these continuous human neuroblastoma cell lines will allow this parameter to be utilized with other approaches in future experimental studies.
4291846|Evidence is reviewed for and against four major theories of chemical carcinogenesis. The development of several normal and transformed epithelial cell lines which should be useful for the analysis of this problem is described. The detection of RNA viral particles in cells transformed with chemical carcinogens is a recurrent finding in studies from our own and other laboratories, but the significance of these particles in terms of the mechanism of chemical carcinogenesis remains to be determined. Finally, we have described the first mutants of chemically transformed epithelial cells which are temperature sensitive in the maintenance of the transformed phenotype. These mutants should be particularly useful for detecting the critical biochemical changes that distinguish a chemically induced tumor cell from its normal counterpart.
4292910|The growth and differentiation of L6 myoblasts are subject to control by two proteins secreted by cells of the Buffalo rat liver line. The first of these, rat insulinlike growth factor-II (formerly designated multiplication stimulating activity) is a potent stimulator of myoblast proliferation and differentiation, as well as associated processes such as amino acid uptake and incorporation into protein, RNA synthesis, and thymidine incorporation into DNA. In addition, this hormone causes a significant decrease in the rate of protein degradation. All of these actions seem to be attributable to a single molecular species, although their time courses and sensitivity to the hormone differ substantially. The second protein, the differentiation inhibitor (DI), is a nonmitogenic inhibitor of all tested aspects of myoblast differentiation, including fusion and the elevation of creatine kinase. Indirect immunofluorescence experiments demonstrated that DI also blocks accumulation of myosin heavy chain and myomesin. Upon removal of DI after 72 h incubation, all of these effects were reversed and normal myotubes containing the usual complement of muscle-specific proteins were formed. Thus, this system makes it possible to achieve specific stimulation or inhibition of muscle cell differentiation by addition of purified proteins to cloned cells in serum-free medium.
4292082|Enzyme-deficient cell lines, lacking TK or HPRT and therefore unable to grow in HAT medium, may be used as feeder layers to enhance clonal growth of wild-type cells. Low numbers of wild-type test cells may be plated in HAT medium with 5  10
20170269|Viral contamination associated with syncytium formation in two sublines of Singh's Aedes albopictus cell cultures was investigated. Electron microscopy of the syncytia revealed the presence of five different types of virus-like particles, which morphologically resembled the parvo-, picorna-, toga-, and orbi-, and bacterial viruses. When a virus-free subline of the A. albopictus cells (SL3) was inoculated with extracts of the syncytium-forming A. albopictus cells, the parvo-, toga-, and orbi-type viral agents were consistently observed. Among these three agents, the togavirus-type agent is most likely responsible for the syncytium induction. Serological examination of the infected cell extract indicated that at least one of three virus-like agents, presumably the togavirus-type agent, was related to Chikungunya, O'nyong-nyong, and Western equine encephalo-myelitis viruses (alphaviruses of the Togaviridae), but separable from these.
4292674|Absolute rates of protein and collagen synthesis based on prolyl-tRNA as the precursor were determined in two age groups of IMR-90 human lung fibroblasts. Compared with midrange fibroblasts [population doubling level (PDL) = 20 to 30] aged fibroblasts (PDL > 40) were larger in size in terms of protein and RNA per cell, generally proliferated more slowly, exhibited different steady state [
4291723|The effect of changes in osmotic pressure and in the Na
20170469| Transglutaminase substrates A and B were identified in soluble extracts of cultured keratinocytes and human epidermis by their reactions with dansyl cadaverine in the presence of Ca ion. Substrate B was present in substantial amounts in both extracts whereas A, easily seen in cell extracts, was decreased and sometimes not detected in tissue extracts. Substrates A and B from cultured cells were separated by Sephadex G-75 chromatography and isolated by preparative sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gel electrophoresis by which A had a mol wt of 125,000 and B had a mol wt of 12,000. Amino acid analysis of A, B, and cornified envelope were similar but not identical. The isopeptide bond is not a significant structural feature of A inasmuch as its content is less than 0.25 bonds/molecule. Antibodies raised to A cross-reacted with B and vice versa and A showed partial identity to B when reacted with anti-B. Anti-A reacted with epidermis being adsorbed by the edges of cornifying cells but only weakly by cells of the Malpighian layer. Anti-B also reacted with cornifying, but its reaction was more intense with the cytoplasm of Malpighian cells. Substrate A appears to be incorporated into cornified envelope immediately after its appearance in cells of the granular layer and seems similar to a protein isolated by a different method. Substrate B, convertible by transglutaminase to higher molecular weight species, may also participate in cornified envelope assembly and shares some structural similarities to A. 
4292131|Primary cultures of rat hepatocytes survived well for up to 4 days in defined medium in the presence of dexamethasone but not in its absence. The loss of viability was accompanied by a loss of ultrastructural features characteristic of hepatocytes. The cultures began producing plasminogen activator and a neutral protease after 24 hr in culture. Dexamethasone inhibited the production of both of these substances. The deterioration of the cultures appeared not to be related to plasminogen activator, but prolongation of survival by a variety of protease inhibitors suggested that the neutral protease might contribute to deterioration.
4291750|A method for culturing and cloning a cell line derived from rat hepatic tissue is described. The cloned cells in culture were diploid, epithelioid in morphology, and synthesized tyrosine aminotransferase. The cytotoxic effects of the hepatocarcinogen aflatoxin B
4292239|
               
4291569|Thymidine uptake into the acid-soluble fraction of several hamster cell lines differing in levels of thymidine kinase was examined. Uptake is correlated directly with the level of this enzyme, a kinase-deficient line showing the lowest uptake rate. At low extracellular concentrations the major portion of the uptake that occurs is related to phosphorylation, while at higher levels passive diffusion plays a proportionally greater role. This pattern holds for all cells tested except the kinase-deficient line, which shows no evidence of a phosphorylation-related process. By contrast, uridine uptake shows both a regulated and a passive process in all lines tested. The controlled uptake of these two compounds correlates with the ability of the cell to phosphorylate each nucleoside. The results suggest that phosphorylation may act as a regulating factor for pyrimidine nucleoside uptake across the cell membrane.
4292322|Lens epithelial cells from rats aged 5 days were grown in long-term cultures. These cells age, differentiate and transform spontaneously. Morphological observations indicate five different stages (A-E). The epithelial character is lost after the first two passages. Elongated cells appearing afterwards are considered as cells that have started differentiation to fiberlike cells. Big flattened cells are considered as senescent cells that have lost their proliferative capacity. Data from population kinetics also reflect these five stages. Chromosome analysis shows that three of the five stages are no longer diploid. Two alternative modes of spontaneous transformation are possible. The proliferative capacity of rat lens epithelial cells is higher than that of rat embryonic fibroblast systems.
20170375|Somatic hybridization in higher plants has come into focus since methods have been established for protoplast fusion and uptake of foreign DNA and organelles by protoplasts. Polyethylene glycol (PEG) was an effective agent for inducing fusion. Treatment of protoplasts with PEG resulted in 5 to 30% heterospecific fusion products. Protoplasts of different species, genera and even families were compatible when fused. A number of protoplast combinations (soybean + corn, soybean + pea, soybean + tobacco, carrot + barley, etc.) provided fusion products which underwent cell division and callus formation. Fusion products initially were heterokaryocytes. In dividing heterokaryocytes, random distribution of mitotic nuclei was observed to be accompanied by multiple wall formation and to result in chimeral callus. Juxtaposition of mitotic nuclei suggested nuclear fusion and hybrid formation. Fusion of heterospecific interphase nuclei was demonstrated in soybean + pea and carrot + barley heterokaryons. Provided parental protoplasts carry suitable markers, the fusion products can be recognized. For the isolation and cloning of hybrid cells, fusion experiments must be supplemented with a selective system. Complementation of two non-allelic genes that prevent or inhibit growth under special culture conditions appears as the principle on which to base the selection of somatic hybrids. As protoplasts of some species have been induced to regenerate entire plants, the development of hybrid plants from protoplast fusion products is feasible and has already been demonstrated for tobacco.
4292521|Analysis of 5 to 6 d primary cultures of cells derived from murine thymus glands revealed a heterogeneous population of cells rather than "pure" reticuloepithelial cell cultures as was assumed previously by other investigators. The monolayer cultures consisted of at least three cell types: thymus epithelial cells, macrophagelike epithelioid cells, and fibroblasts. Surprisingly, about 50% of the cells had positive cytochemical staining reactions for acid phosphatase and nonspecific esterase. The same cells phagocytized carbon particles, latex beads, and yeast. Furthermore, these cells could be removed from the initial cell suspension by phagocytosis of carbonyl iron, followed by magnetic separation, but once they had adhered to the substratum they were resistant to trypsin removal. All of these findings supported the conclusion that about 50% of the cells in the monolayers were macrophages. The other cells present were thymus epithelial cells and a small number of fibroblasts. Both of the latter types of cell were cytochemically negative, did not phagocytize particulate material, and were not removed by carbonyl iron treatment, but were removed by treating the monolayer with trypsin. The findings in this report indicated that epithelioid morphology alone was inadequate to identify correctly the cell types found in thymus cultures and that the use of such cultures as a model to study in vitro the maturation of certain immunological functions has been based on assumptions here shown to be incorrect.
4292544|Immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase methods were used to identify constituents and products of cultured human bronchial epithelial cells and fibroblasts. Epithelial cells, but not fibroblasts, from patients with blood Types A or B reacted to the respective antisera to either the A or B blood group antigens. However, neither the epithelial cells nor the fibroblasts from patients with blood type O[H] reacted with the anti-H antisera. Epithelial cells in primary culture reacted with antibody to prekeratin proteins from human stratum corneum and fibroblasts did not react. Moreover, keratin filaments were assembled in vitro from proteins isolated from the epithelial cells. These immunological and biochemical data support previous morphological observations that human bronchial epithelial cells in primary culture shift progressively from a mucociliary epithelium to a keratinizing epithelium. Epithelial cells and fibroblasts could also be identified by their reactivity to anticollagen antibodies. Fibroblasts reacted strongly with antibodies to Types I and III collagens and epithelial cells did not. On the other hand, epithelial cells reacted weakly with antibodies to Type IV collagen and fibroblasts were completely negative. Both epithelial cells and fibroblasts reacted with antibody to fibronectin; however, the distribution of fibronectin differed in the two cell types. In epithelial cells, fibronectin was restricted to the cell surface, whereas in fibroblasts it was found on the cell surface and in the extracellular matrix where fibrils of fibronectin were both cell associated and deposited on the surface of the dish where the fibroblasts had migrated.
4292429|A new calculation of the relative efficiency of polymorphic enzyme markers, called the REB, was determined and compared with one of Fisher's determinations of the relative efficiency called REA here. The REA estimates the chance of failing, and 1-REA of succeeding, to show a phenotypic difference between two randomly selected persons or cultured cell lines (Case 1). In this study it was shown that the REA also estimates the chance of detecting a cell line mislabeling or similar mixup (Case 2) and a cell line cross-contamination leading to the complete replacement of an original line by contaminating line (Case 3). The new REB determines the probability of failing, and 1 - REB of succeeding, to detect a contamination of an original line by another line leading to their coexistence, or at least a sufficiently long period of transitional coexistence before one overgrows the other. The REA and REB also apply to determining the efficiency of polymorphic markers in detecting donor and recipient cells in tissue transplants.
20170520| Isolated rat hepatocytes cultured on collagen coated plates exhibit a gradual fetal phenotypic change during time in culture. The fetal liver marker gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) was used to follow this change. Inasmuch as a significant overgrowth of nonparenchymal liver derived cells is seen frequently in primary cultures of hepatocytes, a technique was utilized that corrects for the presence of nonparenchymal cells. In media supplemented with either hydrocortisone (10 M) or nicotinamide (25 mM) the original epithelial morphology of hepatocytes was preserved for a longer period of time than in unsupplemented media. Hepatocytes in unsupplemented media exhibited an increase in GGT specific activity over time. Hydrocortisone (10 M) induced an increase in GGT activity compared to controls. Nicotinamide (25 mM) inhibited the increase in GGT activity compared to the unsupplemented hepatocytes. Our results indicate that GGT is regulated by hydrocortisone and nicotinamide. 
4292788|The production and release of prostaglandins (PGs) into the growth medium by established cultures of neoplastic, mammary epithelial cells derived from (a) N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU)-induced and (b) 7,12-dimethylbenz(a) (anthracene (DMB A) (-induced mammary tumors, was assessed using radioimmunoassay techniques. Prostaglandin production was determined, to a considerable extent, by in vitro conditions and the tumor line analyzed. In medium supplemented with bovine calf serum (10%), NMU cells synthesized and released nanogram quantities of PGE
4291768| In vitro growth rates of transformed (crown gall) and nontransformed cultures of Vinca rosea L. were greater at 32C than at 25C. The growth of transformed cells was significantly inhibited by kanamycin, neomycin, and chloramphenicol but not by cycloheximide. Nontransformed cells were inhibited by all four antibiotics. The relative growth rates of transformed cultures induced by four different strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens did not correspond to the relative rates of tumor weight increase observed in vivo nor with the relative weights of tumor tissue in plants 8 weeks after inoculation with the corresponding bacterial strains. 
4292690| A new amphibian cell line, Bor II, is described. It was initiated from Stage 20 embryos of the discoglossid frog, Bombina orientalis. In early passages the cell line had an epithelioid morphology. Beginning at or around subcultivation 16, a more fibroblastic cell type emerged and rapidly became predominant. These later passage cells were able to proliferate in low (1.0%) serum, displayed frequent overlaps, and lacked postconfluent inhibition of cell division. The cell line was unable to survive at 37 C, but grew vigorously within a temperature range of 20 to 30 C. The presence of two distinctive marker chromosomes in an otherwise diploid karyotype should make these cells useful for nuclear transplantation studies. 
4292268|A strain of endothelial cells derived from a single cell cloned from a line of normal adult rat lung parenchyma has been maintained in tissue culture for more than 3 years. These cells have been identified as endothelial cells based on the combination of their growth characteristics, cell morphology as observed with both light and electron microscopy, and their physiological properties. They have continued to produce granules, which stain specifically for glycosaminoglycans with Alcian blue, for over 2 1/2 years. During the same period of time, glycosaminoglycans were identified biochemically in both cells and medium. They have maintained the ability to degrade bradykinin over this period as well.
4292709| A cell culture system is described for the growth of rat tracheal epithelial (RTE) cells at clonal density. The system uses normal, early passage RTE cells grown on feeder layers of lethally irradiated 3T3 cells. The RTE cells have a high colony forming efficiency (5 to 10%) in culture, can be passaged up to 5 times, and are capable of more than 20 cumulative doublings per colony forming cell. The epithelial nature of the cells was confirmed by cell and colony morphology, immunoperoxidase staining of intracellular keratin, and cellular ultrastructural studies. The cytotoxic response of RTE cells to a variety of carcinogens, including a direct acting chemical carcinogen, a physical carcinogen, and a series of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, was quantitated. A linear decrease in the logarithm of survival was observed with increasing doses of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG), -irradiation, 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene, and a diol-epoxide of benzo(a)pyrene. No toxicity was observed after treatment with benzo(a)pyrene or 3-methylcholanthrene over the concentration range examined. In contrast, phorbol ester tumor promoters stimulated cell growth markedly. Based on these and other studies, the RTE cell culture system represents a model system that will be useful for quantitative studies of epithelial cell growth, differentiation, and carcinogenesis. 
20170335|A rapid procedure for the preparation of delipidized serum protein is described. The delipidized protein can be used for the maintenance and growth of tissue culture cells in a lipid-free environment. The extraction procedure greatly reduces all serum lipid classes and the delipidized protein supports the growth of a variety of cells in culture.
4292147|Outgrowth cultures of normal human epidermis were used to study a possible relationship between growth inhibition and differentiated function. The effects of theophylline, epidermal chalone and x-irradiation on mitoses and the characteristic production of epidermal keratohyaline granules (KG) were examined at various intervals after the treatment. Theophylline (an inhibitor of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase) or epidermal chalone inhibited mitoses and enhanced KG production. X-irradiation inhibited mitoses but had no effect on KG formation. These results indicate that inhibition of proliferation per se is not sufficient to enhance keratinization of human epidermal cells.
20170420|Experiments in whole animals have shown that normally quiescent adult rat hepatocytes are induced to proliferate by blood borne substances, which we are now probing in primary monolayer cultures. Under our conditions, freshly isolated adult hepatocytes do not proliferate actively in a defined medium, but are stimulated to synthesize DNA -- an essential first step -- by either serum or an EGF-hormone combination. Stimulation of [H]thymidine incorporation into hepatocyte DNA by addition of dialyzed mouse, human, horse, or bovine (fetal, newborn, or calf) serum, whose activities are all similar, is regularly surpassed by an EGF-insulin mixture without serum. This, in turn. is exceeded by dialyzed normal rat serum, which is several times more potent than the other sera tested. Removal of blood platelets reduces the activity of normal rat serum by over 50%. Heat inactivation (56 C) causes a similar loss, but heat treatment of platelet-poor serum fails to cause further reduction. The activity of mouse and human serum is not reduced by platelet removal. Serum from partially hepatectomized rats is not significantly more stimulatory than normal rat serum, and its activity is depressed in the same way by platelet deprivation and heat inactivation. Lack of enhancement by partial hepatectomy is not consonant with whole animal studies and requires further investigation. The heat-labile portion of the DNA synthesis-stimulating activity of rat serum appears to derive from platelets. This activity differs from the well-characterized heat-stable human PDGF. Its relation to other reported platelet-associated growth factors is still undetermined.
4292079|A series of cell lines unique in insect virus susceptibility pattern have been isolated from the ovaries of the gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar: Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae) on a synthetic medium with mammalian and avian serum supplementation. Growth curves showed the poorest growth occurring on peptone-based media with somewhat better growth on amino-acid-based media. The best growth was obtained with combined media. Serological study distinguished the present cell lines from one another and from cell lines derived from other insect species grown routinely in the same laboratory. Baculovirus susceptibility among the new lines varied from no response to a specific complete replication response upon challenge by the homologous (gypsy moth) nuclear polyhedrosis virus.
4292118|An operational criterion for the identification and isolation of epithelial-like (E) cells, based on their ability to cover and protect a collagen gel from the action of collagenase, has been developed. The E cells isolated by this collagenase-separation technique (CST) exhibited the ultrastructural features, including desmosomes and abundant tonofilaments, that are considered characteristic of this cell type. Unlike confluent cultures of fibroblast-like (F) cells, E cells were not found to have large external transformation-sensitive (LETS) protein on their surface membranes. The CST provides a nondestructive and efficient means of identifying and isolating E cells from mixed populations.
4292442| A procedure has been developed for the isolation of nonciliated bronchiolar epithelial cells (Clara cells) from rabbit lung. Following pulmonary lavage to eliminate macrophages, cells (5% Clara cells) were released by digestion with 0.1% Protease I in HEPES-buffered balanced salt solution containing 0.5 mM ethylene glycol-bis-(-aminoethyl ether)-N,N'-tetraacetic acid instilled through the trachea. These cells were then separated on the basis of size using the Beckman JE-6 elutriator rotor. The fourth fraction collected from the elutriator contained about 30% Clara cells. This fraction was then layered on a two-polymer aqueous phase system consisting of 5% dextran T500 (DT) and 3.8% polyethylene glycol 6000 (PEG) in sodium phosphate buffer. A cell fraction was obtained from the PEG phase, which included approximately 70% Clara cells. These cells were found to be greater than 90% viable by trypan blue dye exclusion. Identification of isolated Clara cells was confirmed by light microscopic observation of nitro blue tetrazolium staining and by ultra structural characteristics as observed by electron microscopy. 
4292581|Activities of three lysosomal enzymes-acid RNase,
4291638|A method is described for the electron microscopic visualization of contact relationships between monolayer cells and the supporting surface of the plastic culture vessel.
4292098|Rapid proliferation of mammary epithelial cells derived from biopsy specimens of human fibroadenomas was observed when medium was supplemented with ten percent fetal bovine serum and hydrocortisone (
4292265| Pituitary tissue from 2- to 6-day-old male rats was cultivated for up to 136 days in medium containing fetal bovine serum, but without added steroid or hypothalamic extracts After 40 to 70 days of sustained release of LH and FSH at a very low level, there was an increase in the quantity of both, and a plateau was reached when gonadotropin levels were about twice those obtained during the phase of depressed secretion. LH was identified by immunoreactivity in two radioimmunological systems and in gel chromatography. Little, if any, -subunits were liberated in these cultures. It is concluded that basal production of LH and FSH is a constitutive activity of the gonadotropic cell. 
4291686|It has been demonstrated that glucosamine-containing components of the surfaces of various types of cultured cells can be isolated by trypsin treatment under conditions in which the cells remain viable. By using this method, we found that the surface-associated materials of testicular cells in vitro may be stable once formed. Cytochalasin B inhibits reversibly the incorporation of
4292872|Organ cultures of choroid plexus tissues from the lateral ventricle of juvenile rats have been maintained for periods up to 7 wk in a chemically defined, serum-free media. Of several media and various supplements evaluated, the best growth and survival was obtained with the Pasadena Foundation for Medical Research-4 media supplemented with three hormones: epidermal growth factor, insulin, and hydrocortisone. Autoradiographic studies demonstrated that the epithelial cells incorporated
4292850|Clones were derived in culture from a tumor initiated by spontaneously transformed 3T3 cells and tested for their colony-forming efficiency in agar (CFEag). Incubation of petri dish cultures was done in subsaturation humidity to minimize mold contamination. There was great variation in CFEag between clones but also, under certain conditions, within clones. The most prominent condition that generated phenotypic diversity in CFEag was partial evaporation of the medium, which may occur during the protracted development of a mass population from a single cell. Evaporation was disproportionately great in 35-mm dishes and peripheral wells of multiwell plates. If the supra physiological solute concentration resulting from evaporation was greater than 133% of normal, there was progressive suppression of cell growth in the succeeding transfer in agar or on plastic, even if isotonic medium was substituted 1 d before transfer. The effect of supraphysiological concentrations of all the solutes of the medium could be reproduced by simply increasing the NaCl concentration. Damaged cells were restored to their full growth potential after 3 d in isotonic medium. When nontransformed cells were chronically exposed to increased salt, irreversible increases in 2-deoxyglucose uptake were produced. With continued exposure of these cells to high salt, they became morphologically transformed, produced colonies in agar with high efficiency, and formed sarcomas when inoculated into nude mice.
4292432| Cotton callus and suspension cultures developed from a cotton variety susceptible to Xanthomonas malvacearum (E. F. Sm.) Dow, were grown on chemically defined media that contained one of the carbohydrate sources: 3% sucrose, 3% lactose, 3% maltose, 3% fructose, and 3% glucose. All cells were maintained on a medium with sucrose as the carbohydrate and subsequently transferred to media containing the above carbohydrates. Sucrose was the best carbon source for a high growth rate; however, cells growing on glucose, which was almost as good as sucrose, and cells growing on lactose did not turn brown when they reached the stationary phase of growth. A crude extract from callus tissue growing on lactose had a fivefold increase in -galactosidase [EC 3.21.23] activity as compared with the extract from callus tissue growing on sucrose. When callus tissue growing on lactose was transferred to medium containing sucrose, -galactosidase activity decreased to the level as measured in cells maintained on sucrose. Callus cells growing on a lactose medium showed staining when treated with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl -D-galactopyranoside in which very heavy granular stains appeared. Cells growing on sucrose did not show the histochemical staining. These observations suggest that -galactosidase is induced in cotton callus tissue that has been transferred from a medium containing sucrose to a medium containing lactose. 
20170419|Endothelial cell growth factor(s) from several previously untested human tumor cell lines (i.e., SK-HEP-1, MG63, A375, TE671-C1, RD) were detected using a low cell inoculum growth assay. The final cell density in the 2-cm wells was determined by a highly sensitive DNA content measurement performed directly in the tissue culture plates. The sensitivity of the assay to human tumor cell growth factors depended critically on the low cell inocula, 2,000 to 5,000 cells/well. Most of the bovine endothelial cells used were cloned from primary cultures; all the cell lines obtained from various fetal and nonfetal sources responded to the growth factor(s) (up to a 16x stimulation) as well as to endothelial cell growth supplement. Dose response curves showing the cell specific response of bovine endothelial cells were obtained. The growth stimulatory activity and the in vivo chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane assay responses correlated sufficiently to imply that the assay is detecting tumor angiogenesis factor or some closely related activity. This in vitro assay should prove useful in the identification and purification of tumor-derived factors and in the elucidation of the role of these factors in the events comprising angiogenesis.
4291950|Bacterial agarase, concentrated and purified from culture filtrate of agar-degrading bacteria, has been used to clean cells cultured in soft agarose from gel residues. The enzyme also has been used to liquefy the gel directly in the dishes to facilitate the removal of cells. The surfaces of glioma cells from agarase-treated colonies could not be distinguished in the scanning electron microscope from surfaces of cells which had never been in contact with agarose or agarase. This implies that most agarose residues had been removed, and also that the treatment did not seriously alter the cell surfaces. The influence of the agarase treatment also was tested by comparison of the mitotic index and the incorporation of
4292574|A serum-free medium that supports the proliferation of myoblasts (but not of fibroblasts) has been developed recently in this laboratory. It is composed of 10
4292148|The in vitro production of the important regulator of erythropoiesis, erythropoietin (Epo), is reviewed. It is concluded that it is possible to produce almost routinely small quantities of Epo in tissue culture. Although such procedures offer the potential to provide large quantities of the hormone for clinical use, the optimum culture conditions and mechanisms for triggering Epo production have yet to be resolved.
20170484|Addition of cholera toxin to human mammary epithelial cultures derived from reduction mammoplasties and primary carcinomas greatly stimulated cell growth and increased the number of times the cells could be successfully subcultured. Other agents known to increase intracellular cAMP levels were also growth stimulatory. The increased growth potential conferred by cholera toxin enhances the usefulness of this cell culture system.
4292796|During early cultivation steps of the newly derived and karyotyped human mammary carcinoma line EFM-19, the cells developed faster growth rates and became increasingly less responsive to the presence of serum in the culture medium. No drastic alterations of the morphology and of the karyotype were observed, and carcinoembryogenic antigen remained expressed during the course of the cultivation. In experimental incubations at various time intervals after the explantation, the cell proliferation was analyzed for dose-dependent effects of estradiol, cortisol, progesterone, and testosterone. After 16 wk of cultivation of the stock culture in the presence of estradiol, the cells had acquired a distinct sensitivity to estradiol resulting in permanent growth enhancement. The withdrawal of cortisol from the medium of the stock culture subsequently provoked the loss of the initially noted stimulation of the proliferation by cortisol. The stimulatory effect of progesterone on the proliferation was reversed to inhibition when the stock culture was deprived of cortisol in the growth medium. The results indicate that the choice of steroid hormones in the stock culture medium was determining the quality of the cellular growth responses.
4291688|After cultivation in vitro for 3 years, L-P59 cells failed to produce tumors in C3Hf/Bu mice. Meanwhile, the cells retained their antigenic abilities, i.e. they induced resistance in the recipient to subsequent challenge with tumorigenic L-P59 cell line. After 2 weeks of cultivation in agar, those nontumorigenic cells became again able to transplant the tumor in C3Hf/Bu recipients.
4292070|Glucose, lactic-acid, and oxygen metabolism of BHK and L929 cells on artificial capillary perfusion units have been studied using several different modes of perfusion. After 7 to 10 days, cells planted in the extracapillary compartment of culture units containing 80 to 150 fibers reached populations that used
4292740|Long-term cloned mouse leukemic T cell lines were established in vitro using interleukin-2 (IL-2) conditioned media. The cell lines were tested for retention of both antigenic expression and tumorigenicity, as well as for growth characteristics. Several important findings resulted from these studies. A reliable method was developed for consistent success in the culturing and cloning of leukemic T cell lines. Cultured cells from IL-2-dependent lines were found to retain their original histocompatibility and differentiation antigen characteristics for up to 2 yr. Mortality patterns, comparing long-term cloned leukemic T cell lines with fresh AKR leukemia cells, showed that the cloned cells had greater tumorigenicity. An especially interesting finding was that cell lines established both from different mice and from a single organ of an individual mouse were heterogeneous with respect to antigenic makeup, cell growth kinetics, and tumorigenicity. Finally, because of their dependence on IL-2, the cloned tumor cell lines provided excellent index cells to quantify IL-2 activity.
4292627|Modern science, dedicated since its 17th Century origins to the mastery and possession of nature for the relief of man's estate, is a source of great social change, affecting our opinions, practices, and ways of life. It thus exists necessarily in tension with law and morality, our institutions of stability and order. This tension between change and permanence, between science and law or morals, was institutionalized by the American Founders who sought to encourage, under law, the progress in science and the useful arts, by means of the copyright and patent laws. American science and technology have flourished under the patent law, an ingenious ethical and social contract between scientists and the polity, through which private right and interest and public good generally coincide. Nevertheless, this contract has its limitations. Some of these limitations are vividly seen through the recent Supreme Court decision (in the Chakrabarty case) to permit the patenting of living microorganisms. Analysis of this case shows why the contract between science and the polity embodied in the Patent Laws may not always serve the public good and may also be harmful to science itself. Also, permitting ownership of living species shows how close we have come in our thinking to overstepping the sensible limits of the project for the mastery and possession of nature.
20170435|Cells from seven individuals were cultured separately for the induction of morphological transformation by SV40. Sixty-three transformed colonies were tested for anchorage independent growth in soft agar at various passage levels. Colony formation was consistent for all clones of respective cell donors. Four donors yielded clones that grew in soft agar in the first passage. Clones from three donors were similar to controls and formed no colonies. The size of the agar colonies was constant in the early passages. Size differences were observed in later passages and for negative clones that gained anchorage independence during time in culture. The early passage positive type of anchorage independence is expressed concomitantly with morphological transformation. Considering that the clonal isolates are genetically homogeneous within cell donors and heterogeneous among cell donors, it is concluded that the phenotype of anchorage independence is determined by at least two genetic mechanisms; namely, the genotype of the cell donor (the hereditary type) or by culturally derived new genetic variability, or both. Family history on cancer incidence showed that one grandparent for each of the four positive donors for the hereditary type of anchorage independence had cancer, whereas the grandparents of the three negative donors were asymptomatic. The incidence of cancer did not appear to be age related. Chromosome analyses of two morphologically transformed colonies from each of the cell donors by the in situ technique, showed diploid and tetraploid cells and a small number of cells with rearrangements. It is concluded as previously that the progenitor transformed cell to the colony of cells is normal diploid.
4292676|A method for initiating rapidly growing cultures of normal human transitional cells from ureter and embryonic bladder specimens has been developed and quantified. A new microdissection technique was used to nonenzymatically separate the urothelium. The use of enriched medium containing
4292638|A method for preparing enzymatically dispersed pituitary cell cultures of carp (Cyprinus carpio) is described. The cultures have been used to assay a synthetic analog of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and to determine the specificity of steroids able to affect gonadotropin (GtH) release in vitro. Time course secretion studies indicated that by 48 h incubation, in the presence of 500 pM GnRH, cumulative secretion of gonadotropin (
4291770|This presentation is confined to a discussion of the binding of insulin to specific insulin receptors on isolated preparations of purified plasma membranes from rodent livers. The system has been studied extensively and has yielded a large amount of quantitative data. This study was a collaborative effort between my laboratory and the Section on Diabetes of the National Institute of Arthritis, Metabolic, and Digestive Diseases. The studies were begun by Pierre Freychet, Jesse Roth, and myself. The work on the obese mouse was initiated by Ronald Kahn and has been continued recently with Andrew Soll. When these experiments were begun, we hoped that, by using highly purified plasma membranes and a biologically active labeled hormone,
4292259|The low-molecular-weight volatiles released by a variety of plant tissue cultures were examined by gas chromatography. Callus cultures invariably produced carbon dioxide, ethylene, acetaldehyde and ethanol. In cultures with developed shoots, ethanol was absent and acetaldehyde was detected only rarely.
4291806|A number of diploid clones have been isolated from an enzymatic dispersion of normal rat lung. Four of these clones are epithelial in morphology, the remainder fibroblastic. On the basis of electron microscopic observations, two of the epithelial clones appear to have originated from type II alveolar pneumonocytes.
4292327|The ability to transfer mammalian genes parasexually has opened new possibilities for gene mapping and fine structure mapping and offers great potential for contributing to several aspects of mammalian biology, including gene expression and genetic engineering. The DNA transferred has ranged from whole genomes to single genes and smaller segments of DNA. The transfer of whole genomes by cell fusion forms cell hybrids, which has promoted the extensive mapping of human and mouse genes. Transfer, by cell fusion, of rearranged chromosomes has contributed significantly to determining close linkage and the assignment of genes to specific chromosomal regions. Transfer of single chromosomes has been achieved utilizing microcells fused to recipient cells. Metaphase chromosomes have been isolated and used to transfer single-to-multigenic DNA segments. DNA-mediated gene transfer, simulating bacterial transformation, has achieved transfer of single-copy genes. By utilizing DNA cleaved with restriction endonucleases, gene transfer is being employed as a bioassay for the purification of genes. Gene mapping and the fate of transferred genes can be examined now at the molecular level using sequence-specific probes. Recently, single genes have been cloned into eucaryotic and procaryotic vectors for transfer into mammalian cells. Moreover, recombinant libraries in which entire mammalian genomes are represented collectively are a rich new source of transferable genes. Methodology for transferring mammalian genetic information and applications for mapping mammalian genes is presented and prospects for the future discussed.
4292379|EMT-6 tumors were treated in vivo with 300 kVp X-rays, cyclophosphamide, or bleomycin. Tumor cell suspensions were prepared by digesting tumors with trypsin or a collagenase-deoxyribonuclease-pronase cocktail, and cells were plated in vitro for determination of fractional cell survival. Cell survival after X-rays was identical for the two disaggregation methods. Trypsin-derived cells were far more sensitive to bleomycin but less sensitive to cyclophosphamide than those prepared with the mixed enzyme cocktail. Interaction of drug produced and enzyme caused damage was the probable cause for these discrepancies. The nature of the interaction may be drug specific and therefore unpredictable. The results were unlikely to be due to different nonrepresentative tumor cell samples being produced by the two digestion methods, because the X-ray cell survival curves were so similar for the two products.
4292471|Cells obtained by tryptic digestion of the surface of intact adult and fetal Fischer 344 rat lungs were plated on glass fragments. Epithelial cell lines were readily established by selecting fragments with 2 to 10 cells 2 days after plating and growing them in F12 K media containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). These cell lines and new lines that can be easily obtained provide a reliable source of diploid, density-inhibited epithelial cells. These cells of mesothelial origin may serve as models for the study of mesothelial cells in situ.
4292486|A sensitive radioimmunoassay technique was developed to quantitate the level of human breast celltype specific antigens on cells from normal breast and from various established cell lines of breast and nonbreast origins. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed four major proteinaceous components (150,000; 75,000; 60,000; and 48,000) in human milk fat globule membranes that were used to immunize rabbits in order to elicit antimammary epithelial cell antibody. Antisera obtained were rendered specific by absorptions and were able to recognize three specific mammary epithelial components of the breast epithelial cell. Human mammary epithelial (HME) antigen expression was highest (
4292047| The effect of incubation temperature on the behavior of neonatal rat palatal mucosa maintained in a chemically defined medium in organ culture for periods up to 7 days was investigated. Expiant survival was optimal at 37 C with increasing mortality at temperatures of 34 C and 30 C. There was a transient increase in the epithelial mitotic activity at all temperatures, but at all time intervals mitotic activity was greatest at 37 C. While the mitotic activity at 37 C after 5 hr in vitro was comparable with previously described in vivo values, it was subsequently increased, only returning to values approximating those at the start of the experiment at 6 days. At 30 and 34 C the epithelial mitotic activity increased more slowly than at 37 C; then it followed a similar pattern with time and after 5 days in vitro had fallen to values approximating initial values. At the cut edges of the explants, the rate of epithelial migration and subsequent keratinization increased with increasing temperature. It is suggested that survival of neonatal rat palatal mucosa is optimal in this organ culture system when maintained at 37 C. 
4292033|The 59-day Skylab III earth-orbital mission carried an experiment designed to observe the effects of zero-gravity on a strain of diploid human embryonic lung cells, WI-38. The experiment (NASA Exp. No. S015) was performed in a miniaturized, fully automated tissue-culture laboratory package called the Woodlawn Wanderer Nine. The package, which weighed less than 10 kg, photographed two perfused cultures for 28 days using phase-contrast microscopes and 16-mm time-lapse cameras; fixed 10 perfused cultures in gluter-aldehyde one at a time over a 12-day period; and returned to earth eight perfused cultures in a viable state for subsequent subculture and study. Two ground control experiments using specimens from the same clone were run simultaneously with the flight experiment in identical packages. The controls were subjected to simulated flight vibration profile within an hour after spacecraft liftoff. All packages were sealed at 1-atmosphere pressure. Analysis of the flight and control films showed no differences in mitotic index, cell cycle or migration rates. Growth curve, DNA microspectrophotometry, phase microscopy and ultrastructural studies on the fixed cultures revealed no effects of zero-gravity. Karyotyping and chromosome-banding studies were performed on subcultures of the returned viable cells and these showed no significant differences from the controls. Minor unexplained differences were found in the biochemical constituents of the spent media of the flight and control experiments. Within the limits of this experimental design it was found that the zero-gravity environment produced no detectable effects on WI-38.
4291772|Cultures of maize (Zea mays L.) endosperm grown in vitro for over 3 years were examined cytologically. Conditions of aneuploidy and polyploidy were noted. Chromosome numbers ranged from 21 to over 200, with 30 to 60 being observed most often. Although a few extra large cells with polyploid nuclei were scattered throughout the smear preparation, a large proportion of the interphase nuclei appeared similar in volume and probably contained a near normal complement of chromosomes. Anaphase bridges were the most commonly observed chromosome aberration. No cell divisions were observed the first 24 hr after transfer. From 2 to 8 days after transfer the proportion of cells in division was relatively constant with a mitotic index of approximately 5.5%. The proportion of cells in division began to decline 8 days after transfer and in the final sample taken after 13 days only 2.6% of the cells were in division. Examples of localized synchrony were observed and mitotic indices for individual cell clumps ranged from 0 to 17%.
4292277|Two types of apparently spontaneous malignant alterations of fibroblastlike ST/a mouse lung cells (ST-L cells) grown in vitro are described. One type is characterized by a high tumorigenic potential of the altered cells in nonconditioned syngeneic recipients, a fibroblastlike morphology with cell surface showing very few microvilli by scanning electron-microscopy (SEM), and a growth pattern typical of nontransformed cells. These cells were described as
4292404|The properties of a new cell line derived from a human retroperitoneal liposarcoma are described. The cells do not grow at low cell concentrations and contain in their cytoplasm large numbers of droplets that stain with Oil Red O. No indication of the presence of endogenous virus particles could be found. The mean chromosome number per cell is 36, with several constant markers, the most conspicuous of which is a large submetacentric marker due to a translocation between chromosomes 4 and 11, which is present in every cell. The liposarcoma cells show an enhanced uptake of
4292742|The rate of growth of four malignantly transformed insect cell lines was correlated with their dependence on serum in the medium. Highly malignant lines, in terms of LT
4292648|An epithelial cell line, LSI23, was established in 1974 from the second in a series of three primary colonic tumors resected from a Caucasian female. The cell line is aneuploid, releases low concentrations of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), fails to grow progressively in nude mice, and forms colonies only in enriched semisolid medium developed for tumor stem cells. LS123 cells grow on confluent cell monolayers and in either low serum or serumfree medium. In the chick embryonic skin assay, LS123 cells grew as a well-differentiated abnormal colonic epithelium with little mitotic activity but with some indication of invasion. On floating collagen gels LS123 cells formed a one to three-cell-layer-thick undifferentiated epithelial sheet. The apparent low invasiveness of the cells of this line is supported by the patient's history of three primary colon tumors without systemic metastases during the past 30 yr. Therefore, although LS123 cells possess several properties associated with neoplasia, they have little invasive potential. Thus, LS123 cells may represent an important model for the study of human colon cancer.
20170553| Ceruloplasmin (Cp) is a copper-transport protein with ferric oxidase activity found in high concentrations in the plasma of all vertebrates. Five cell lines (TR-1, TR-M, TR-ST, TM, and TM) derived from the testis can be grown in hormone-supplemented serum-free medium. Cp stimulates the growth of four of these five cell lines in serum-free medium. The growth stimulation by Cp is not affected by the addition or deletion of free copper, nor does copper itself elicit any significant growth response. Cp can stimulate growth also in the absence of TF suggesting that it is not acting solely to promote Fe(III)-TF binding. A strong interaction is seen between Cp and high density lipoprotein (HDL), with the presence of either decreasing the growth-promoting activity of the other. It is suggested that these cell lines may provide an ideal system for studying the action of Cp at the cellular level. 
4292785|A serum-free culture medium was employed to evaluate both qualitative and quantitative aspects of secreted proteins derived from human bronchial explants over a period of 26 to 50 d. It was found that protein and hexose were secreted at a reasonably constant rate during this period. Viability of explants was assessed by histological examination, attachment to scored grids of the petri dish, incorporation of labeled precursors into tissue proteins, and by fluorographic analysis of the sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyaerylamide gel pattern of the secreted material. This culture system is useful as a model for the study of secretory products and processes and how they are affected by various stimuli.
4292215|The growth of short-term primary cultures of endometrial epithelium has been studied using Feulgen microspectrophotometry. A gradual increase in the number of polyploid nuclei up to 64C has been observed and is associated with a decline in the growth capacity of the cultures. The specific mechanism(s) of this polyploidization is not known.
4292616|Since the first report of hybridomas producing monoclonal antibodies by Kohler and Milstein in 1975, this technique has spread to nearly all areas of biological, biochemical, and biomedical research. Watching the use of these methods spread from immunologists to cell biologists, developmental biologists, biochemists and to other biological disciplines and observing the nearly logarithmic increase in publications using these reagents has been in itself fascinating and informative. An overview of the development of this technology and its applications is presented including the use of monoclonal antibodies to study cell surface molecules, differentiation antigens, receptors, and histocompatibility antigens. The use of these antibodies to analyze microorganisms and parasitic antigens as well as their use in the genetic analysis of human cell surface antigens and the detection of polymorphic variation in enzymes and other proteins is discussed. Examples of the application of monoclonal reagents to the study of tumor cell biology including the labeling of metastatic tumor cells and the detection of cell surface molecules implicated in the regulation of growth control and cell division are provided.
4292812|Fetal rat hepatocytes were isolated and cultured in primary culture to investigate activity changes of arginase under defined conditions. In hormone-free medium, cultured cells maintained the enzyme activity at levels equal to that of freshly isolated cells for at least 4 d. Arginase activity could be induced by dexamethasone in hepatocytes isolated from 16.5-d-old fetuses although cells were competent to respond to glucagon only at the stage of 18.5 d. The combination of the two hormones induced greater levels of arginase activity than the individual compounds. These findings indicate that glucocorticoid and glucagon receptors appear early and sequentially before birth and reveal that cultured fetal hepatocytes provide a suitable system for the investigation of the role of hormones in the initiation of enzyme synthesis.
4292696|Most glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) formed by lung fibroblasts under both basal and stimulated conditions were secreted into the culture medium. High molecular weight ($>10^{6} daltons$) hyaluronic acid (HA) was the major GAG species formed. Most of the
4292563|After the stimulation of quiescent density-inhibited BALB/c-3T3 cells with fresh bovine calf serum, uridine kinase activity measured in cellular extracts increased between hours 3 and 6 of incubation and remained elevated through 12 h after stimulation. The addition of either partially purified platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) or platelet-poor plasma (PPP) also caused increased uridine kinase activity by 6 h, but the increased activity was not maintained and the activity returned to the prestimulated level by 12 h. However, when PDGF and PPP were added in combination an increased level of uridine kinase activity was maintained in a manner similar to that seen after the addition of serum. The components of PPP eluted in the void volume from Sephadex G-50 chromatography did not induce uridine kinase activity when present alone, although they did act synergistically with PDGF to allow the maintenance of elevated levels of uridine kinase activity over the period from 6 to 12 h after stimulation. Thymidine kinase activity was not induced by the addition of either PDGF or PPP alone, although either serum or the combination of PDGF and PPP did produce an induction of thymidine kinase activity in late G
4292357|Explants of adult human bronchus were cultured in CMRL-1066 medium supplemented with heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum, hormones, antibiotics, and either 0.0, 0.1, 1, or 10 mM putrescine. The outgrowth of bronchial epithelial cells was stimulated in medium containing 1 mM putrescine, a concentration that partially inhibited the outgrowth of fibroblasts. In medium containing 10 mM putrescine, the outgrowth of epithelial cells was similar to that observed in the control medium, but the outgrowth of fibroblasts was completely inhibited for periods of at least 4 weeks. When 10 mM putrescine was added to cultures of bronchial fibroblasts, the fibroblasts were not killed. These results suggest that human bronchial epithelial cells have a higher requirement for putrescine for growth than fibroblasts, and the molecular basis for this observation is under investigation.
4292615|It has long been realized that only the study of homogeneous antibodies or cell populations could enable a definitive understanding of much of the immune mechanism. Hybridoma technology has greatly facilitated such approaches. Hybridoma antibodies have been used to delineate both B cell and T cell subpopulations. T cell studies per se have been accomplished by the use of T cell hybridoma cell lines producing a variety of factors. Anti-idiotypes against B cell hybridoma antibodies have been used to characterize T cell receptors and factors. B cell studies have been facilitated by hybridomas that have made available the immunoglobulin of pre-B cells or defective B cell lines. Hybridoma antibodies have also been used to dissect closely related antibody families and the potential for responsiveness against a variety of antigenic determinants. Finally, hybridomas have provided a primary source of material for protein and DNA sequence analysis. In our laboratories hybridoma antibodies derived against the murine H-2 locus have demonstrated the ability of B cell antibodies to discriminate amongst H2 mutants-a capacity previously attributed only to T cell specificities. Hybridoma antibodies have also been generated by fusions with antigen stimulated neonatal B cells to provide homogeneous antibodies reflective of the earliest developmental immunoglobulin readout. Such probes should increase our understanding of the processes involved in the generation of both the T and B cell repertoires.
4292517|The pathogenesis of the intra-articular, arthritic-inflammatory reaction caused by Mycoplasma arthritidis in susceptible rats and mice is poorly understood. To investigate this problem, synovial cells from normal Sprague-Dawley rats were cultured and studied in vitro. These cells continued to produce hyaluronic acid as measured by viscosity and chemical assays. Normal synovial cells were treated with rabbit serum specimens taken before and after immunization with M. arthritidis. Cytotoxicity assays indicated that the cells were killed in the presence of rabbit anti-M. arthritidis serum but not with preimmunization serum specimens. The anti-M. arthritidis serum was not cytotoxic to monolayer cultures of HEp-2, Vero, or L-cells. Antiserum produced in response to M. fermentans, M. hominis, and M. pulmonis did not produce a cytotoxic effect on the cultured synovial cells. From immunofluorescence studies it was demonstrated that the interactions occurred between the rabbit anti-M. arthritidis serum and synovial cell surface antigens. Extreme precautions were taken to prevent mycoplasmal contamination of rats and the synovial cells in culture. These observations would appear to support previous reports implicating mycoplasmas as biological triggering mechanisms of autoimmune reactions.
4292859|Differentiation-arrested lung cell cultures were developed from fetal rats of various gestational ages. In contrast to previously published observations with cultures in a pO
20170286| Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells selected in a single step for resistance to the cytotoxicity of the lectin from red kidney beans (PHA) behave as authentic somatic cell mutants. The PHA-resistant (
20170338| The distribution of incorporated radioactive precursors, for both DNA and protein synthesis, has been measured with a resolution of about 1 mm in cell cultures, using a scanning technique. Either  radiation and X-rays or  radiation (electrons) were detected by scintillation detectors. Spectrophotometer measurements with a resolution of 1 mm gave good estimates of cell density changes. Glioma cell colonies were used to compared this technique with autoradiography. Variables such as the density of labelled cells and percentage of labelled cells could be estimated rather accurately. For example, an increased cell density was correlated to a local decrease in DNA synthesis. 
4292756|An attached strain of Hink's Trichoplusia ni cell line TN-368 was developed using a modification of the method of Bilimoria and Sohi. The new strain is designated TN-368A. Attached cells were selected for by mechanical removal of loosely attaching and nonattaching cells. This procedure increased cell attachment from 5% in the parent cell line to 95% in the attached strain after 20 passages. Strain TN-368A is subcultured at a ratio of 1:5 and reaches confluency 6 to 7 d after seeding. The new subline, which is significantly more susceptible to strain L1 of Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus, produces well-defined plaques. Nonoccluded virus and polyhedral inclusion body levels in TN-368A cells were similar to those obtained with TN-368 cells. The attached strain is stable after storage in liquid nitrogen.
4292220| A high frequency of diploid and near-diploid clones were developed from cell lines derived from adult and newborn rat liver using micropipettes. There were some differences in morphology, biochemical properties and growth rate between clones. Cloned cells had low levels of tyrosine transaminase activity, glucose-6-phosphatase activity and albumin content. A diploid clone and a pseudodiploid clone derived from adult rat liver cell line were positive for -fetoprotein. 
20170482|Attempts were made to adapt human long-term B lymphoblastoid cell lines to prolonged growth in serum-free, chemically defined media. A newly described medium, which is an enriched modification of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium containing additional amino acids and vitamins, was used. The serum is totally replaced by albumin, transferrin, and soybean lipid. The cell lines were all adaptable from RPMI 1640 over a period of time during which the 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) concentration was reduced and then eliminated in successive steps. After 3 to 6 wk minor alterations in cell shape and adhesion were noted without significant histological changes. Growth characteristics were comparable in the new medium provided a double initial inoculum was used. A panel of cell surface markers, including surface immunoglobulins, Ia antigens, Fc and complement receptors, and T and B erythrocyte rosettes, all showed no altered expression. Molecular genotyping of Ia antigens was carried out by 2-D gel electrophoresis. The antigens showed their full polymorphism without change and were shed into the new culture medium without alteration. Chromosome analysis was performed on Q-banded karyotypes from one of the lines and showed no alteration resulting from the change to serum-free conditions. Thus long-term B lymphoblastoid cell lines can be adapted to prolonged growth in serum-free medium. This will facilitate the assay and isolation of cell products regulating lymphocyte function and the identification and characterization of cell surface molecules free of interference from undefined serum components.
20170285| There is extensive physiological evidence implicating the cell surface as the key organelle which mediates the cell:cell interactions which underlie both normal and neoplastic growth. This information has now been supplemented with biochemical and biophysical data which indicates that surface macromolecules, in particular the heteroglycans of transformed cells, differ from those which lie at the periphery of normal cells. In the case of cells neoplastically transformed by most tumour viruses it is clear that the small virus genome (2-5  10 daltons) cannot carry the total genetic information to accomodate these various biochemical modifications, if indeed they are encoded in separate genes (1). To examine the part played in transformation by cellular genes coding for surface heteroglycan formation, we have turned to a study of SV-3T3 cells (ts H6-15) which are temperature-sensitive for expression of the transformed cell phenotype (2). The data show that cells grown under conditions permissive and non-permissive for such expression exhibit the same pattern of formation of glycolipids, and of the majority of the polypeptides of the plasma membrane. There are, however, significant differences in the synthesis of some glycopeptides. A large molecular weight, trypsin-labile glycopeptide, present at the surface of untransformed fibroblasts but barely measurable in some of their virus-transformed derivatives (3), was detected, essentially at the same level, at the surface of ts H6-15 cells grown at the permissive and non-permissive temperatures. The significance of these observations is discussed. 
4291612|The proteolytic enzymes trypsin and chymotrypsin in sublethal concentration modify HeLa cell colonial morphology by increasing compact colonies. There is no correlation between the amount of tryptic or chymotryptic activity of a given enzyme preparation and its ability to increase compact colonies. Proteolytic fractions containing high levels of "compact factor" activity, with low tryptic and chymotryptic activity, have been prepared from crude trypsin by disc electrophoresis. We propose that these preparations induce alteration in colonial morphology by changing cell membrane and surface charge.
4292229|Collagen synthesis in normal BHK 21/cl 13 and chemically transformed temperature-sensitive BHK 21/cl 13 cells (
4291718| A cell line (SWT) was established from embryonic tissue of the red swordtail Xiphophorus helleri. The SWT cells grew optimally at 26C to 30C in Eagle's basal medium plus 10% fetal calf serum but failed to grow at 16C and 37C. After 50 subcultivations, the cells remained contact-inhibited and were pseudodiploid with a chromosomal modal number of 46. Virological studies demonstrated that SWT cells supported replication of the following viruses at the indicated temperatures: IPN virus (22C), FV-3 (30C), and VSV (33C). The following mammalian viruses failed to replicate at 33C: vaccinia, poliovirus 2, herpes simplex, and reovirus 2. Although not replicating, reovirus induced interferon in these cells. 
4292390|Indirect immunofluorescence tests were performed on 14 established human breast cancer cell lines using sera from a variety of subjects. Autologous reactions were studied on 10 cell lines, with positive reactions demonstrable in 8. Tests using sera from a randomly selected population of breast cancer patients showed reactivity in 40 to 66% depending on the target cell line used. Reactivity to other nonbreast cancer cell lines was rare. Several control populations were tested, including normal blood bank donors, persons with benign breast disease, and persons with other forms of cancer; immunofluorescent antibody was detected much less frequently in sera from these populations than those from the breast cancer group. Positive reactions remained in spite of absorption of serum with heterophile antigens, normal human breast tissue, and AB+ red blood cells. Thus established cell lines of human breast cancer possess antigens commonly recognized by sera from breast cancer patients.
4291910| Fetal bovine serum has been reported to delay or inhibit "spontaneous" neoplastic transformation in vitro as compared with all other sera tested. The present results indicate that fetal bovine serum is also unique in containing high levels of protein-glutathione mixed disulfides (3 to 7 g glutathione as mixed disulfide per ml serum). The level of mixed disulfide appears to vary in accordance with the period of gestation of the fetal calves used to prepare the serum, decreasing below detectable levels (less than 0.2 g per ml) with near-term fetal calves. Calf, adult bovine, fetal horse, and swine sera did not contain detectable levels of this type of mixed disulfide. 
20170329|The conditions for obtaining representative, primary adult rat hepatocyte cultures were explored. The methods applied included enzymatic liver perfusion which was nondestructive to hepatocytes, the prevention of aggregation of dissociated cells and the selective attachment of viable cells. These procedures yielded a recovery of 50% of the liver cells which gave rise to cultures representing 14% of the total liver cells. The cultures were composed of homogeneous epithelial-like cells cytologically similar to hepatocytes and possessed a number of liver-specific enzymes. There was virtually no cell division initially and most cells died between 24 and 48 hr. Insulin enhanced the attachment of the liver cells, altered their morphology, but did not prolong cell survival.
4291595|Methods for electrophoresis and specific staining of all of the enzymes of the glycolytic pathway are illustrated. Interspecies differences between the enzymes of mouse and of human origin are readily demonstrated and are applicable to studies, in mouse-human hybrid cell clones, of linkage, chromosomal assignment, and regulation of the gene loci controlling glycolytic enzymes.
4291549|The most frequent causes of cell culture contamination are poor techniques and housekeeping and inadequate sterility testing of supplies and culture media. The most common contaminants of cell cultures are Mycoplasma, Torula sp., and Pseudomonas sp. Routine procedures used in this laboratory to control or prevent accidental contamination include the use of filtered laminar air flow in transfer rooms, elimination of antibiotics wherever possible, careful execution of aseptic procedures, periodic review and discussion of techniques, sterility testing of all media components, use of approved clothing, and effective cleaning and disinfection procedures.
20170471|Rat ovarian follicles were isolated at nine different times during proestrus and cultured for 3 d. During the period of cultivation, estrogen and progestagen secretion was measured. Other follicles were dissected out at the same time periods and analyzed directly for these hormones. The most intense hormone release was observed during the first 24 h in culture. The concentration of steroids secreted in vitro by follicles previously collected on the morning of proestrus was relatively low. The secreted estrogen concentration increased gradually from follicles previously isolated at later times during proestrus, with a maximum at 1800. The peak secretion of progestagens in culture was from follicles isolated at 2000. There was a marked decrease in secretion of both hormones from follicles isolated past their optimal times. The same secretion pattern of estrogens and progestagens was shown by follicles in vitro at 24 h as with similar follicles in vivo, according to their time of isolation. From these results it is evident that the normal rhythm of steroid secretion, predetermined at the time of follicle excision, was maintained during 24 h in organ culture. After a longer period in culture, the dynamics of hormone synthesis became altered, although follicles appeared morphologically normal up to 48 h.
4291606|Quantitative analysis of the X-linked enzyme, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD), was performed on tumor cells lines from two human females. Both tumor cells were hyperdiploid, having complete or redundant C + X groups. One, no. 930, lacked the X chromatin body and exhibited twice the level of G-6-PD as in the X chromatin-positive tumor cells, ME-180. Hence, in the no. 930 cell, reversal of X chromosomal condensation was associated with loss of the X chromatin body and doubling of genetic activity. Cells of no. 930 were subsequently placed in culture where after three passages they developed an X chromatin body (or bodies). G-6-PD determinations made at that time showed enzyme levels comparable to the X chromatin-positive tumor cells (ME-180).
4292560|Wing imaginal discs from 7th instar Galleria mellonella L. larvae evaginate and exhibit tracheolar elongation when exposed to 20-hydroxyecdysone in vitro. This response was elicited within 24 h of treatment as was a greater than fourfold stimulation of the incorporation of
4292299|An improved basal medium is presented that requires only minimal supplementation with dialyzed fetal bovine serum or bovine serum albumin and fetuin to be comparable to Ham's F-10, which requires 15% horse serum (HS) and 2.5% fetal bovine serum (FBS) for the growth and function of Y-1, mouse adrenal cortex tumor, cells. Cell monolayers maintained for up to 2 weeks without any protein supplementation have retained their steroid response to ACTH. The medium differs from Ham's F-10 in its buffer composition and higher calcium-ion concentration. This medium should be a useful adjunct to studies pertaining to steroid and lipid intermediary metabolism, the retention of a specialized physiological function in a chemically defined medium, and the mechanism of hormonal response.
4292845|Organ cultures of porcine thoracic aorta were studied to define the characteristics of this system as a model to study the reaction of endothelial cells (ECs) and the underlying smooth muscle cells (SMCs) to injury. Both nonwounded and wounded cultures, the latter having had part of the endothelial surface gently denuded with a scalpel blade, were studied over a 7 d period by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The results showed that the nonwounded ECs underwent a shape change from elongated to polygonal within 24 h in culture. In both nonwounded and wounded explants there was cell proliferation beneath the nondenuded endothelium so that by 7 d several layers of cells were present showing features of the secretory type of SMCs. This proliferation, however, did not occur if the endothelium was totally removed from the aorta. There was also evidence of gaps between the surface ECs, and by 7 d lamellipodia of cells beneath the surface were present in these gaps. Occasionally, elongated cells were seen to be present on the surface of the endothelium. In the wounded organ culture, cell migration and proliferation occurred extending from the wound edge and producing a covering of cells on the denuded area. There were also multilayered cells beneath the surface similar to the nonwounded area. Occasional foam cells were seen in the depth of the multilayered proliferating cells. The results indicate that organ culture of porcine thoracic aorta is a good model to study the reaction of ECs and underlying SMCs to injury.
4291535| Dense cultures of mouse fibroblast cell line 3T6 were prepared for light microscopic study using either one of two physical substrates, glass slides or a matrix of collagen-coated cellulose sponge. Whether propagated on glass or in matrix, cultures receiving a supplement of 250 g per ml of ascorbic acid formed reticular fibers in less than 10 days. Reticular fibers were more abundant in the matrix cultures than on glass. Fibrous collagen was not found with light or electron microscopy in cultures fed on the control medium, i.e. without the ascorbic acid supplement. 
4292157|Cultured human lymphoid cell lines (LCL) are useful as a source of target cells in several immunologic assays. More recently such cells have been used for the serological characterizations of the HLA-DR antigens. Typing of the same LCL in various laboratories during the VII Histocompatibility Workshop has given comparable results with a discordancy rate of less than 10%. This discordancy is likely to reflect the different sources of complement that can greatly alter the results of cytotoxic assays. The presence of naturally occurring antibody in rabbit complement to human cells can be avoided by: (a) absorbing with human cells at  C; (b) dilution with human serum; (c) dilution with heat-inactivated rabbit serum; (d) repeated freeze-thawing of the complement; or (e) careful selection of complement by screening procedures. Comparison of the results of HLA-DR typing of LCL with peripheral B-cells of the same donor show good correlations. However, LCL will occasionally give extra reactions perhaps due to the expression of new antigens. LCL can be coated with F(ab')
4292409|The effect of lysozyme from three different sources-Staphylococcus aureus, hen egg white, and human urine-on adhesion to substrate and spreading of trypsinized human fibroblasts was studied. Several fibroblast strains were tested under various conditions. It was found that the different cell strains did not show the same capability of spreading and stably attaching to substrates when resuspended in media not containing serum. Some strains did not spread, whereas others spread even in the absence of serum. Cell spreading in these strains did not occur when the cells were pregrown for 5 weeks in media supplemented with 1% fetal bovine serum. Lysozyme from S. aureus allowed stable adhesion to substrate and spreading of all the fibroblast strains unable to elongate in nonsupplemented minimal essential medium. This enzyme accelerated and augmented spreading of the strains capable of elongating in the absence of serum. S. aureus lysozyme also allowed spreading and stable adhesion to substrates of all these strains when they were pregrown for 5 weeks in the presence of 1% fetal bovine serum. Furthermore, hen egg white lysozyme and the lysozyme purified from human urine were both capable of stimulating anchorage to substrate and spreading of trypsinized fibroblasts although their effect was less pronounced than that of the S. aureus lysozyme. Some tentative hypotheses for the mechanism of cell spreading in the presence of lysozyme are made. The possibility that lysozymes, virtually ubiquitous enzymes, may play a specific role in nature in the regulation of cell differentiation and tissue development is finally raised and discussed in light of several previous observations and findings.
4291962|Rice (Oryza sativa L., 2n=24) anthers containing microspores in the early-uninucleate to first-mitosis stages were induced successfully to develop into plants in vitro through an intermediary step of callus formation. Callus initiation occurred with highest frequency in anthers containing mid-uninucleate microspores. The callus derived from different stages of microspore development differed in the potential to differentiate into plants. The plants regenerated from pollen callus were predominantly haploid or diploid; polyploid and aneuploid plants were relatively infrequent. The first division of the uninucleate microspores was asymmetrical, resulting in the formation of large vegetative and small generative nuclei. The vegetative nucleus divided repeatedly and assumed the major role in the formation of callus, whereas the generative nucleus degenerated rapidly. Simultaneous division of the two nuclei was observed in a few pollen grains. Nuclear fusion during the very initial stages of pollen development was postulated to account for the occurrence of the diploid and polyploid plants.
4292816|Endothelial cells were cultured from the carotid artery with thickened intima comprised of two to five layers of smooth muscle cells, isolated from a 19-yr-old female, who died from an accident. The cells were grown and subcultured in Medium 199 supplemented with 20% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum. The cells are still viable at present, the 22nd passage. The cultured cells were found to have the following characteristics: existence of Factor VIII-related surface antigen and prostacyclin synthesis slightly less than that for typical endothelial cells. The most outstanding feature was the formation by an individual cell of a single ring, and a composite ring formed by two to five cells. Neither the synthesis of an angiotensin converting enzyme nor that of a Weibel-Palade body could be detected by electron microscopy. The cultured cells possessed only a few characteristics specific for typical endothelial cells and were designated as variant endothelial cells.
4292440| Characterization of numerous independently derived cell lines is necessary in order to establish reliable biological criteria applicable to transformed mammary epithelial cells. A mammary tumor cell line (DMBA-2/BALB) and clonal derivatives have been established from an adenocarcinoma induced in vivo in a BALB/c mouse by the administration of the chemical, 7,12-dimethylbenz()anthracene. The parental and clonal lines in vitro, as well as tumors derived from them in vivo, maintained an epithelial morphology at the light microscope level. Electron microscopic observations demonstrated the presence of desmosomes and numerous microtubules and microfilaments, but low levels of rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. Growth characteristics were examined, including saturation density levels and colony-forming ability on plastic and in suspension. None of the in vitro growth parameters was found to correlate with the tumorigenicity of the lines in syngeneic mice or with their ability to produce C- or B-type virions by reverse transcriptase assay. Peroxidase/antiperoxidase (PAP) immunological staining failed to detect virus-specified antigens, MuMTV gp52, Rauscher MuLV gp69/71, or BALB virus-2 gp70, in the cells. Although epithelial in appearance, the parental cell line did not appear to be functionally differentiated in culture as evidenced by a very low level of casein messenger RNA. Passage of the parental cell line in vivo in a lactating mouse failed to activate virus expression, but a few cells in scattered focal areas in the tumor did synthesize casein detectable by PAP staining. 
4292501|A simple, rapid and reproducible test has been developed to measure the viability of cells after irradiation with ultraviolet light (UV). Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoid lines, derived from patients with xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), were irradiated with UV, and the post-UV viability of the lymphoid lines was determined by the trypan blue dye exclusion method. The relative post-UV survival of the patients' lymphoid lines was similar to the relative post-UV survival of the patients' fibroblast strains.
4291824|Results are presented which suggest that inhibition of tritiated thymidine incorporation into the deoxyribonucleic acid of bone marrow in vitro by high concentrations of cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate is pharmacological in nature, and thus apparently unrelated to the physiological actions of cAMP.
4292431|A system for maintaining adult rat colonic mucosa in organ culture for up to 28 days is described. Distal colonic mucosa physically separated from the muscle layers was cultured at 37 C on a substrate of human fibrin foam in HEPES- and bicarbonate-buffered Waymouth's MB 752/1 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, L-glutamine, bovine albumin, ascorbic acid, hydrocortisone, insulin, and ferrous sulfate; the optimal atmosphere for culture was
4291735|Cell line CRFK, derived from kidney tissue of a normal domestic kitten, was initiated in 1964. With intermittent periods of storage in the frozen state, it has been grown in vitro during more than 200 passages, without apparent loss of susceptibility to selected viruses. Various herpesviruses and feline viruses belonging to different virus groups grow readily and with distinct cytopathic features. The cells now grow as a smooth mono-layer of epithelial-like cells; most have 37 chromosomes (2n-l) and are thus aneuploid for cat karyotype. Three distinct marker chromosomes are identified. The cell line, which is free of mycoplasmal contamination, is useful in feline virus research and diagnostic medicine and has become of particular interest in cancer research.
4292071|Clusters of cells derived from biopsy specimens of human mammary ductal carcinomas form two morphologically distinct epithelial colonies in culture, designated as E and E'. The proportion of E' cell clusters that attached and formed colonies ranged from 0.3 to 13.0% with different tumors. Attachment was independent of tumor grade. Microscopic observations revealed that the survival of E' cell colonies was limited to approximately 10 days with rapid cell degeneration commencing about 7 days. A comparison of sera showed that colony formation by cells from malignant tumors during the 1st week of culture was maximum in the presence of fetal bovine serum. Human serum alone was 70 to 100% less effective in promoting E' colonies. The most significant finding was that human serum from normal donors inhibited E' colony development in the presence of FBS. Although human serum was less effective than FBS in promoting colony formation by clusters of E cells, an inhibition was not observed. Inhibitory activity could not be attributed to either antagonistic hormones or the source of human serum. These results demonstrate that normal human serum contains a factor(s) that exhibits an inhibitory activity specific for human epithelial cells (E') derived from malignant tumors.
4291712|Endothelial isolates from excised bovine vena cava were obtained following a 10 min incubation with Versene (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid). From 19 specimens, 14 cell lines with similar in vitro characteristics have been initiated and maintained in continuous culture for over 22 passages. The predominant cell type in these lines possesses morphologic characteristics similar to those of the tissue of origin. Attached to glass cover slips or plastic flasks the cells are polygonal-shaped and form a mosaic-patterned monolayer. When grown in continuous sheets, the shape and arrangement of the cells, as demonstrated by silver nitrate staining, resembles that of endothelium. Scanning electron micrographs reveal the presence of numerous cytoplasmic projections on the surface of the bovine endothelial cells. Projections of similar morphology are seen on the surface of the cultured cells. That the in vitro lines actually represent endothelial cells or endothelial precursors is suggested but not proven by these morphologic observations. Evaluation of the functional capabilities of these cells is necessary to determine their true nature.
20170533|Cells derived from the endothelium of human iliac arteries were cultured in vivo. The cells were isolated, grown, and subcultured in HEPES buffered Medium 199 supplemented with 20% heat inactivated human whole blood serum, human alpha-thrombin, and commerical endothelial cell growth supplement derived from bovine brain. The cells were viable in culture for 8 to 10 passages at a split ratio of 1:3. After the 10th passage, the cells began to enlarge and their growth rate was reduced. No cultures were viable after the 12th passage. The cells were determined to be of endothelial origin by their morphology at confluence; their ultrastructural characteristics, including the presence of Weibel-Palade bodies; the production and release of factor VIII-related antigen; and by their maintenance of a surface that prevented platelet attachment. The cultured arterial endothelial cells released prostacyclin in response to challenge with thrombin and protamine sulfate but not in response to bradykinin or the platelet-derived growth factor. Although the cultures described in this report were derived from patients with varying degrees of atherosclerotic disease, there were no significant differences in morphological or physiological parameters among these cultures or in comparison with commonly studied cells derived from human umbilical veins.
20170341|Fischer rat embryo cells chronically infected with Rauscher murine leukemia virus, and known to be sensitive to transformation by potent chemical carcinogens, were transformed by the weak carcinogen 4-nitropyridine-1-oxide. Transformed cells grew in semi-solid agar and produced tumors in newborn Fischer rats. Transformation was inhibited by antisera specific for the ecotropic Rauscher murine leukemia virus, but not by antisera of equal toxicity specific for xenotropic Swiss mouse AT-124 virus.
4291721|A cell line has been derived from the inner lining of the pig oviduct. During 33 months in continuous culture, the cells have been subcultured 145 times. Early passage cells had an epithelial-like morphology with clear and abundant cytoplasm. A spontaneous morphological alteration occurred at the 50th subculture by emergence of fibroblast-like cells. Evolution towards establishment of a cell line was suggested by the spontaneous morphological alteration, increase of the maximum population density without a significant change in the diploid state (92nd subculture), increase in size and number of nucleoli, and increase in the nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio and of cytoplasmic basophilia. Evidence of pig origin is subtantiated by the karyotype (38, XX), the persistence of Barr bodies indicating female origin (140th subculture) and the persistence of species specificity by fluorescence (141th subculture). Preliminary studies indicate that nine viruses will replicate in both epithelial-like and fibroblast-like cells.
4291683| Electrophoretic analysis of isozymal differences was performed with extracts of wild carrot (Daucus carota L.) cells, grown in the presence and absence of 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). There were no differences in the patterns of malate dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, and -glutamyl transferase. Quantitative differences in peroxidase isozymes were detected, the plus 2,4-D cultures having lower activities. Esterase patterns were similar, but there were differences in individual isozyme activities and an additional form present in the minus 2,4-D cells. The greatest differences were in patterns of glutamate dehydrogenase with the minus 2,4-D cultures containing only the slowly migrating isozymes. The changes in glutamate dehydrogenase, as revealed by isozyme changes, together with the requirement for ammonia in embryogenesis, suggests that this enzyme may be associated with differentiation in wild carrot cells. 
4292466|During attempts to cultivate Treponema pallidum, it was determined that length of time for survival of virulent treponemes was highly dependent on the quality of the fetal bovine serum (FBS) used as a protein supplement in the culture medium. Eighteen lots of commercial FBS were tested for their ability to maintain survival of T. pallidum in cultures of cottontail rabbit epithelial (Sf1Ep) cells. All were capable of supporting growth of these cells. However, in tests on five of the lots, attachment of treponemes to the Sf1Ep cells was either extremely poor or the 50% survival time (
4291935|The number of epidermal melanocytes positive to the dopa reaction increased when skin explants from newborn mice were cultured with MSH or dbc-AMP. These agents seem to induce melanogenesis in the pre-existing melanoblasts. This hormone-induced melanogenesis is suppressed by actinomycin D or cycloheximide, suggesting that the initiation of melanogenesis in the epidermal melanoblasts requires de novo transcription and translation.
4292801|Synchronization of Plasmodium falciparum cultured in vitro results in a one-step growth pattern that allows the study of stage-specific metabolic activities of the parasites. Lactic acid (LA) was selected as a metabolic marker, and the concentration of this end product found in spent media was correlated with the different erythrocytic stages of the parasites. When the medium was changed at 12 h intervals, cultures containing predominantly trophozoites produced
20170427|An ex vivo culture system was developed for assessing the activity of cancer chemotherapeutic agents against tumor cells. The system utilizes artificial capillary culture units and the technique of hemodialysis to expose tumor cells to a chemotherapeutic drug and its metabolites following injection of the drug into an experimental animal. This ex vivo culture system was used to test the activity of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) against four human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell lines (SW 403, SW 480, SW 620, and SW 707). Cell killing by 5-FU or its metabolites in blood dialysate following intravenous injection was measured by determining colony formation of cells attached to plastic and suspended in 0.3% agar after short-term exposures of 1 to 2 h. The technique was shown to discriminate between the sensitivities of these cell lines and the respective sensitivities to the drug were reproducible. Kinetics of drug clearance from the host animal's blood were shown to be similar to that in humans. The results suggest the system may be useful for testing diverse drugs, including those requiring metabolic activation, against a variety of types of tumor cells.
4292695|Three human melanoma cell lines were derived from tumor specimens and established in culture. CAL 1 originated from a bone marrow metastasis and CAL 4 and CAL 7 were derived from solid tumor fragments. CAL 1 and CAL 7 were cloned before establishment. Ultrastructural and chromosome analysis were carried out along with the response to nine chemotherapeutic agents at various concentrations. Survival curves after irradiation were also plotted. The uncloned cell line, CAL 4, displayed some differences from the other two cell lines as regards ploidy and response to chemotherapy. Greater spread of chromosome numbers were observed with this cell line, which contained both hypoploid and a hyperploid modal numbers. All three cell lines showed a relatively high extrapolation number after irradiation, suggesting that inherent cellular properties may be partly responsible for the clinical radioresistance of malignant melanomas.
20170425| When estrogen is present in culture medium, enzyme-dissociated cells from estrogen-induced primary renal tumors in Syrian hamsters and from 1st to 4th serially transplanted carcinomas in monolayer culture contain progesterone receptor levels that are similar and comparable to those in tumors in vivo (i.e., 2 pmol/3  10 cells). Despite the similarity of receptor levels in cultured cells isolated from primary and transplanted tumors, the ability of cells to be maintained in culture differs considerably from one tumor stage to another. When cultured as monolayers in plastic flasks, isolated cells from primary tumors exhibit a marked decline in cell number after 4 to 6 d in culture. On the other hand, monolayer-cultured cells from first and second transplantation tumors remain essentially constant in cell number over a 2 wk culture period and cells from third transplantation tumors undergo a two- to threefold increase in cell number during 2 wk in culture. When primary tumor cells are cultured in collagen gels, the decline in cell number over a 2 wk culture period is prevented and progesterone receptor levels remain elevated. Cells cultured from first transplantation tumors exhibit a delayed decline in cell number beginning after 2 wk in monolayer culture. The decline in cell number in monolayer culture, like that for cells from primary tumors, can be prevented by culturing cells from first transplantation tumors in collagen gels. Neither cells from primary nor first transplantation tumors exhibit significant increases in cell number in collagen gels. Increasing the serum concentration of growth medium to 30% does not stimulate growth of cells under these conditions. Cells isolated from fourth transplantation tumors undergo a fourfold increase in cell number over a 1 month culture period whether cells are cultured as monolayers or in collagen gels. 
4292297|The lactogenic response of mouse mammary gland expiants to human placental lactogen (hPL) and ovine pituitary prolactin (oPRL) was examined on days 10 to 18 of pregnancy by measuring
4292396|Healthy pecan, Carya illinoensis (Wang) Koch, tissue was obtained from an 8-year-old grafted Cherokee tree. Dormant buds were gathered and stored until spring growth. After rigorous surface sterilization, halves of both stored and freshly harvested dormant buds and of actively growing shoots were plated onto sterile PDA. Corresponding halves were fixed in FAA and processed for scanning electron microscopy (SEM). All plated dormant buds (both stored and freshly harvested) showed presence internally of a fungus, and SEM studies revealed hyphalike strands similar to those of the isolated fungi within cells of those buds. The spring flush was sterile in culture, and strands were absent in SEM studies.
4292595|Tissues formed in liquid cultures of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Wisconsin 38) crown galls incited by Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58 were of three types: unorganized callus, organized teratoma, and organized normal appearing. These tissues contained
4291744|An epithelial cell line, MDA-MB-157, has been established from the pleural fluid of a metastatic human breast carcinoma. The cell line is characterized by rapid growth of cells in dense plaques and in suspension. The cells were originally isolated in a complex medium containing Leibovitz's L-15, Waymouth's MB752/1 and Ham's F-10 media with 16% fetal calf serum, glutathione, cortisol, insulin, and antibiotics. Recently cultures have been growing equally well on some less complex media such as RPMI-1640 with 20% fetal calf serum or Ham's F-10 with 20% fetal calf serum. The presence of typical epithelial cell organization, and structures such as desmosomes, have been observed by electron microscopy. Viruses and mycoplasmas were not detected. The cells exhibit a hypotriploid karyotype with mode of 64 to 66 chromosomes.
4292419| Human diploid cells morphologically transformed by feline sarcoma virus were serially propagated under selective cell culture conditions. When injected into nude mice prior to passage in soft agar (0.35%), morphologically transformed cells did not produce tumors. However, when propagated under selective cell culture conditions, transformed cells grew in soft agar and, when injected subcutaneously into the subcapsular region of the n/n mice, produced neoplastic nodules histopathologically interpreted as fibromas. Karyological examination of cell populations grown out from the tumors confirmed that the tumors were composed of human cells. Examination of electron micrographs of the excised tumor tissue revealed the presence of budding virus particles. Tumor cells isolated from nude mice and morphologically transformed cells both contained the feline oncornavirus-associated cell membrane antigen. It was concluded that expression of feline oncornavirus-associated cell membrane antigen is associated with an early stage of feline retrovirus-induced carcinogenesis, namely focus formation. In addition, it was shown that FeLV-FeSV can induce morphological transformation in human cells in vitro and that there is a requirement for the cells to passage through soft agar before subsequent tumor formation (neoplastic transformation) can be demonstrated. 
20170305| Organ cultures of rodent and human prostate glands have shown marked differences in their morphological response to testosterone. In this study, explants from 19 canine prostate glands were cultivated for a minimum of 9 days in Trowell's T-8 medium. Groups of explants were exposed to media containing from 0.05 to 100 m testosterone. While the higher testosterone levels (50 and 100 m) markedly decreased explant viability, explants cultivated at lower levels (0.05 to 5 m) appeared similar to control explants in testosterone-free Trowell's T-8 medium. Atmospheric mixtures containing either 95% or 50% oxygen were equally effective. Shortly after the cultures were initiated, large amounts of secretory product were liberated into the lumen. After 9 or more days in vitro, glandular epithelium appeared cuboidal and never revealed the acid phosphatase-rich secretory granules seen in the preculture control. However, the epithelium exhibited an increase in alkaline phosphatase and lipid content following cultivation. 
20170433|On culturing fragments of neural tube of Hamilton and Hamburger (H & H) Stage 10 chick embryos, large multipolar neurons developed. The aim of this investigation was to determine whether these neurons in culture developed from dividing neuronal precursor cells, from postmitotic precursor cells, or both. Of the neurons formed during the 20 d of culturing in the presence of [H]thymidine, 26% were unlabeled, indicating that they originated from cells that were already postmitotic at the time of explantation. By labeling cells of the neural tube in vivo and determining the total number of cells in the neural tube, we estimated that the neural tube of chick embryos of H & H Stage 10 contained approximately 1000 (3.3%) postmitotic cells. By estimating the total number of neurons that formed in 20-d cultures and the percentage of labeled and unlabeled neurons, we concluded that the postmitotic neuronal precursor cells survived well in cultures and proceeded on their predetermined path of differentiation. By considering the number of neurons found in the spinal cord in vivo and the number of labeled neurons found in cultures, we concluded that only a relatively small fraction of the dividing neuronal precursor cells entered the postmitotic stages of differentiation and formed neurons in cultures. The majority of cells that did this, entered the postmitotic stage of differentiation during the first 5 d in culture.
4291977|We have established conditions for the study of membrane glycoprotein synthesis and turnover in cultured human malignant melanoma cell lines using the labeled precursor
4292354|The effects of glucagon and dexamethasone on the activities of the enzymes involved in cyclic adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate (cyclic AMP) metabolism in primary monolayer cell cultures of adult rat hepatocytes were examined. Short-term experiments indicated that the magnitude of the cultured cells' response to glucagon, as measured by production of cyclic AMP, was essentially the same as that for freshly isolated hepatocytes. However, the time course of this response was markedly different. Although the activity of adenylate cyclase is maintained throughout the culture period at a level similar to that of the freshly isolated hepatocytes, the activity of both low and high K
4292528| Tracheary element differentiation in cultured explants of pith parenchyma isolated from heads of romaine lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. var. Romana) was strongly inhibited by concentrations of gentamicin sulfate recommended for tissue culture media (50 to 100 g/ml). Similar results were obtained with cultured explants of Jerusalem artichoke tuber (Helianthus tuberosus L.). Callus formation was suppressed in the presence of increasing levels of gentamicin sulfate in both tissue systems. Plant tissue culture media employed in studies on cell division and xylem differentiation should be supplemented with this antibiotic in concentrations of 10 g/ml or less according to these results. 
4292366|On impermeable substrata MDCK cells, a cell line derived from normal dog kidney, forms a confluent monolayer that is studded with numerous hemicysts. Previous studies with this cell line suggest that these hemicysts develop as a result of active fluid accumulation between cell sheet and substratum. However, the formation of hemicysts as a multifocal phenomenon is still unexplained. The results presented here show that the hemicysts are not only expressions of active transport of solutes and water, but also of cell-substratum interaction. The increase in number and size of the hemicyst produced by dbcAMP may be explained by a decrease in the adhesive strength to substrata produced by this compound. Moreover, when the strength of the cell-substratum adhesion was increased the number of hemicysts was reduced or abolished. On the contrary, when this strength was reduced, larger hemicysts occurred, covering practically all the area available for growth. Results from cinematographic time lapse studies, showing that 90% of the area of the monolayer is able to produce hemicysts, also suggest that hemicyst formation as a multifocal phenomenon is more an expression of local variations in cell-substratum interaction than of regional changes in transepithelial active transport.
20170391|An in vitro model to study myocardial cell injury was developed with primary monolayer cultures of rat myocardial cells. Two important conditions associated with myocardial ischemia were simulated by depriving the cultures of oxygen and glucose for a specified period of time. Cellular injury caused by hypoxia and glucose deprivation resulted in significant leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) from the cells into the culture medium. The cells were not lethally injured by treatments as reflected by a lack of change in cell viability and protein content when compared to controls. Pretreatment of cultures with methylprednisolone for 24 hr provided protection to the cells when challenged by hypoxia and glucose deprivation. Methylprednisolone exhibited a dose-response effect in reducing LDH leakage in cultures, which were subsequently deprived of oxygen and glucose for 4 hr. Similar pretreatment with hydrocortisone had no effect in limiting cellular injury in hypoxic and glucose-deprived cultures.
4291743|The glutamine synthetase system of strain L mouse cells is regulated by at least two natural substances: glutamine and a glucocorticoid hormone. In a chemically defined cell culture system, cortisol or dexamethasone promotes intracellular accumulation of the synthetase by a process which depends upon genetic transcription. The accumulation is most rapid if the hormone is added to a glutamine deficient culture medium. High concentrations of glutamine promote rapid disappearance of the enzyme by a mechanism which depends on unimpaired protein synthesis. Ways in which the two regulatory substances collaborate to influence the synthetase level and other growth-related processes of L cells in culture are discussed.
4292049|Rat embryo cells of low passage subjected to a single treatment with certain carcinogenic fluorenylhydroxamic acids and their respective acetate esters showed signs of transformation in vitro, such as changes in phenotype, growth in soft agar and agglutination with concanavalin A. In addition, certain changes in karyotype and loss of diploidy were observed. There was no evidence, either by electron microscopy or by assay of RNA-dependent DNA polymerase, for the presence of virus. None of these cell lines produced tumors after inoculation into the isologous host. The results of this study lead us to suggest that malignant transformation is a multistep process and that certain criteria of transformation of rat embryo cells are associated with the initial stage(s) in which the cells are transformed without being tumorigenic. The ultimate test for malignant transformation of rat embryo cells remains the production of tumors in a susceptible host after inoculation of treated cells.
4292647|During the preparation of rabbit-mouse hybridomas, an unusual degree of cellular proliferation and a high level of rabbit immunoglobulin secretion in culture was noted. The proliferation seemed to be dependent on the use of relatively high levels (10%) of fetal bovine serum because it was not seen when spleen cells were cultured using either horse serum or autologous serum in a variety of media. The peak of the proliferative response occurs at 7 to 10 d in culture, after which the lymphoblast population dies rapidly, leaving a large, granular, nonadherent cell as the predominant component in the culture. These cells did not seem to divide further but persisted in very gradually diminishing numbers for many months. This long lived cell has been characterized as a nonadherent macrophage by its morphology, intense esterase staining, expression of an Fc receptor for rabbit IgG, phagocytosis of latex particles and opsonized sheep erythrocytes, and mediation of antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity on chicken erythrocytes.
4292886| Transforming growth factors (TGFs) are a relatively new category of factors that induce the anchorage-independent growth of non-transformed cells. These factors are usually detected by their ability to induce normal rat kidney (NRK) fibroblasts to grow in soft agar. Until now, this assay has been performed in serum-containing medium (SCM). Unfortunately, the background activity of this assay is variable and dependent on several factors, including passage number of the cells and the serum lot used. Furthermore, the addition of either EGF or TGF- alone results in the appearance of additional colonies, which decreases the sensitivity of the assay. To circumvent these problems, serum-free media have been developed that support the growth of the NRK cells at low density in both monolayer culture and soft agar. Long-term growth in monolayer cultures occurs in serum-free medium supplemented with laminin, insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor (EGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and high density lipoprotein (HDL). Growth in soft agar occurs when TGFs are added to a serum-free medium, AIG medium, that contains insulin, transferrin, FGF and HDL. In contrast to the background activity observed when the assay is performed in SCM, no colonies form in the AIG medium unless TGFs are added and few, if any, colonies form if EGF or TGF- are added alone. Thus, the AIG medium provides an improved assay for TGFs. In addition, the AIG medium should prove useful for examining other factors, including serum factors, for TGF activity. 
4291536|A new culture medium for cells from Drosophila embryos has been designed. It has an osmotic pressure equivalent to 10.5 g per liter of NaCl (pH 6.7),
4292603|Prolonged maintenance of human dermal fibroblasts in MCDB-104 medium supplemented with pooled human serum or platelet factor deficient preparations of human serum led to appearance of a large number of membrane bound inclusions, resembling lysosomes, and proliferation of small, Golgi associated vesicles. These inclusions did not appear if the cells were grown in Dulbecco-Vogt's modification of Eagle's minimal essential medium or in minimal essential medium supplemented with the same human serum fractions. Cells that acquired inclusions during a 10 d incubation in MCDB-104 subsequently lost these inclusions when transferred to Dulbecco-Vogt's medium for 4 d. Similar reversal of effects of MCDB-104 was also produced by MCDB-104 buffered with bicarbonate instead of HEPES.
20170510|Chinese hamster V-79-171 cells, when placed in suspension culture, spontaneously form multicell spheroids. As the spheroids enlarge the fraction of polyploid (predominantly tetraploid) cells increases and can approach 100% in very large spheroids. Spheroid size, rather than age, seems to be a major determinant for increased ploidy. When cell separation techniques were used to select enriched populations of diploid and tetraploid cells, the growth rate and plating efficiency of the diploid cells was always marginally higher, and they gradually became predominant in mixed monolayer cultures. Cloned tetraploid cells, however, generally remained quite stable, and no consistent ploidy dependent changes in radiosensitivity were observed relative to normal, diploid cell lines.
4291554|The development of differentiation of spermatogonia in the testes of Rhynchosciara is a relatively synchronous process. The testes are composed of three cell types. The first are small cells, possibly aberrant spermatogonia which have failed to differentiate, which actively synthesize RNA and DNA from the beginning of the first instar to the beginning of meiosis. The second cell type consists of large polytene cells whose cytoplasm anastomoses extensively and which may have a Sertoli cell-like function. The third cell type, the spermatogonia, synthesizes RNA from the first instar until the beginning of meiosis. However, DNA synthesis as well as mitotic division stops at mid-fourth instar. Groups of these cells are connected via cytoplasmic bridges, probably formed as a result of incomplete cytokinesis. These groups of cells develop synchronously. Shortly after the cessation of mitotic activity the mitochondria acquire unique inclusions. These consist of a mass of electron-lucid material which continues to accumulate throughout the last half of the fourth instar. Following the completion of meiosis, the mitochondria begin to fuse so that in the mature sperm there is a single mass of material in the matrix of what appears to be a single elongated mitochondrion.
4292862|The concentration of Ca
4291900|The action of hydralazine on collagen prolyl hydroxylation was studied in a cell culture system using WI-38 fibroblasts. The prolyl hydroxylation level was determined by a method involving the digestion of collagen by bacterial collagenase and the examination of specific peptides. The presence of low concentrations of hydralazine (0.2 mM) in both "young" and "old" fibroblast cultures strongly inhibited collagen prolyl hydroxylation. The degree of inhibition was greater in serum-deficient cultures. No significant improvement in the degree of hydroxylation was observed by increasing either ascorbate or iron levels in the hydralazine-containing cultures in which hydroxylation was inhibited. Some of the reported side effects of hydralazine seen in patients might be related to its inhibitory effects on mixed function oxidative (MFO) hydroxylation systems. While the ascorbate dependence of the prolyl hydroxylase system of WI-38 decreased with the "age" of the culture, hydralazine inhibition of hydroxylation was dramatic with cultures of all "ages."
4292634|In an extensive host range study of M. hyorhinis mink lung cells (MvlLu, ATCC CCL 64) were found to be the cells of choice for the propagation of this mycoplasm, which otherwise is often difficult to grow in a cell-free medium. Furthermore, rapid plaque assay and plaque purification procedures were developed for M. hyorhinis. The titer of M. hyorhinis grew to
4291959|The cyclic AMP metabolism of cultured epithelial cells was investigated. Epinephrine or 1-methyl,3-isobutylxanthine (MIX) alone had no effect on cyclic AMP levels in intact cells, whereas the combination of the two agents yielded a 6- to 10-fold increase in cyclic AMP levels. Both basal and stimulated cyclic AMP levels decreased with increasing cell density. Cell-free adenylate cyclase preparations were stimulated markedly by epinephrine or isoproterenol in the absence of MIX. Since the epithelial cells were found to have a relatively small amount of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity, the requirement for MIX to visualize intact cell responsiveness to epinephrine could be explained only partially by its PDE inhibitory properties.
20170434| Protein content per cell and cell volume of the canine kidney epithelial cell line, MDCK, and one of its chemically induced tumorigenic transformants (T) were examined during growth in serum-containing and serum-free, hormonally defined media. Both protein content per cell and cell volume (measured with 3-0-methyl-D-glucose) decreased when cell density increased. Significant inverse linear correlations were found between protein content (and cell volume) and the log of the cell number. Equations relating these variables were derived. No difference was detected between cells grown in serum-containing and in serum-free media. Results of Na uptake experiments differed markedly when expressed as a function of cell number or as a function of protein content or cell volume. However, protein content and cell volume bore a constant relationship to one another, and expression of results as a function of protein content or cell volume yielded qualitatively similar results. These findings show that in MDCK cells, as in other cell lines, protein content and cell volume decrease markedly during growth and that these variations must be taken into account when expressing and interpreting the results of transport measurements. 
20170467|Mouse submandibular glands were dissociated and the epithelial cells embedded in a collagen gel matrix. A characteristic and reproducible pattern of growth was seen resulting in three-dimensional outgrowths with ductlike structures projecting into the matrix. A sustained cell growth leading to a 5 to 10-fold increase in cell number was observed in less than 2 wk. The extent of this growth was found to be dependent on serum concentration. Of the three sera tested, swine serum was found to promote greater growth compared to fetal bovine serum or horse serum. Swine serum dose response studies have shown that a concentration of 2 to 5% in the medium elicited only a modest increase, if any, in cell number compared to the initial value within a period of 2 wk. Various hormones and growth factors were then added to this "maintenance" medium. Insulin was found to stimulate growth consistently and reproducibly in a dose-dependent manner. Ultrastructurally, the resulting outgrowths were comprised of polarized cells joined by apical tight junctions and desmosomes. These outgrowths produced epidermal growth factor in response to dihydrotestosterone, triiodothyronine, and cortisol. The present system provides a method for sustaining growth and functional differentiation in primary culture of mouse submandibular gland epithelial cells.
4291933|A method of preparing monolayer cultures of retinal pigment epithelium from normal pigmented neonatal rats is described. Critical features include incubating the eyes in balanced salt solution and treating with trypsin before dissecting the eyes. The tissue also has been cultured from RCS rats with inherited retinal degeneration. Since the pigment epithelium has been shown to be the primary site of action of the gene for retinal dystrophy in the RCS rat, the method should be useful in studying the defect(s) associated with this mutation.
4292827|The tumor promoter phorbol 12,13-didecanoate (PDD) significantly altered the growth properties of early passage normal human skin cells in vitro in culture medium supplemented with elevated concentrations of selected amino acids. Continuous treatment of cells with 10
4291854|A continuous tissue culture line (SH-4) derived from pleural effusion cells of a patient with metastatic melanoma is described. The cells became established after five passages lasting a period of 5 months of slow growth. Doubling time of the continuous culture was 20 hr in passage 51. The cell line is now in passage 60. The cells of all passages examined appear spindle-shaped or oligodendritic as seen by light microscopy. Pigment deposition in the cells is light and incomplete, but more marked than in cells of the original pleural effusion as shown by electron microscopy. Chromosome complement shows a single peak with a modal number of 51.
4292741|Mouse mammary cells of the NMuMG line proliferated faster and formed colonies more efficiently when the air above the cells contained
20170450| Jejunal mucosa of 6 d-old rats were cultured for 24 and 48 h in the presence of thyroxine, insulin, pentagastrin, glucagon, epidermal growth factor (EGF) or dibutyryl-A-3:5-MP cyclic with or without dexamethasone (DX). The enzymes were assayed on the purified brush borders. The various agents added alone to the basic culture medium had no effect with the exception of DX on the levels of enzyme activities. Dexamethasone alone induced sucrase, stimulated maltase, and protected other brush border enzyme activities (aminopeptidase, lactase, and alkaline phosphatase). When added to DX-supplemented medium, only the following factors modified the levels of enzymatic activities observed with DX alone. Insulin (10 M) increased maltase, alkaline phosphatase, and lactase activity to a greater extent than DX at 24 h culture, the effect being maintained at 48 h on alkaline phosphatase only. At 48 h culture, both EGF (10 M) and dbcAMP (10 M) decreased DX-induced sucrase activity. The latter agent also depressed DX-stimulated aminopeptidase activity. 
20170528| A method for growing chick embryo melanocytes is described that utilizes medium conditioned by Buffalo Rat liver (BRL-3A) cells. The dissected trunk region of each 72 h (Stages 14 to 19) embryo produces approximately 200,000 melanocytes (purity, 80%) when processed and cultured for 8 d. Thus, a typical experiment involving 20 embryos would produce a total of 4  10 melanocytes. Choice of serum, serum concentration, and cell density were determined experimentally. Partially purified multiplication stimulating activity (MSA) from BRL-3A cells and insulin were also tested as medium additives. MSA was not stimulatory, whereas insulin gave a positive response in 2% but not 10 or 0% serum. The final protocol used a modified F12 medium with 10% bovine calf serum conditioned by BRL-3A cells. Cultures were fed every other day. Small colonies of cells became evident by culture Day 3 and increased rapidly to Day 5 when pigmentation became obvious. Colony size continued to increase but more slowly from Days 5 to 8, whereas pigmentation increased rapidly and maximized on Day 8. There is a factor, or factors, present in BRL-3A conditioned medium that stimulates embryonic chick melanocytes to divide preferentially over contaminating cell types. This results in cultures that can provide adequate numbers and purity for biochemical studies. 
20170395| Four human colorectal adenocarcinoma tumor cell lines, previously established and characterized in monolayer culture were grown in a matrix-perfusion culture system to determine the suitability of this technique for synthesis of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). Production of CEA in excess of 100,000 ng was attained from one cell line, SW 403, during 15-day growth trials. In growth trials and cell-free diffusion studies, CEA passed through membrances of 100,000-dalton molecular weight porosity but not 10,000 porosity. Using cell cultures of high, moderate, or low producers, CEA synthesis tended to reach a plateau after several days of culture and remained nearly constant as the cells attained a maintenance condition. Basic biologic characteristics of the cell lines, expressed as growth rates and CEA produced per 10 cells, were comparable in monolayer and perfusion culture. The high cell densities, (10 to 10 cells per ml) achieved in matrix perfusion made it possible to routinely obtain continuous high yields of CEA over an extended time period. 
20170475|Seven clonal populations were derived from the WiDr human colon adenocarcinoma cell line and were characterized with respect to chromosome number, DNA content, and tumorigenicity in nude mide. There was no correlation between tumor volume and either DNA content or chromosome number; but there were wide differences among the clones regarding the size of tumors they were able to produce in nude mice.
20170498|To provide an in vitro system for studying retinal capillary function we have developed methods for isolation and culture of microvascular endothelial cells from retina. Retinal microvessels were isolated by homogenization of the retina and collection of the microvessels onto nylon mesh. Treatment of the isolated microvessels with collagenase and dispase followed by Percoll gradient centrifugation yielded endothelial cells that were largely free of pericytes. A homogeneous population of endothelial cells that were capable of at least six population doublings was obtained by plating onto a fibronectin coated substrate in plasma derived serum. The endothelial origin of these cells was confirmed by the presence of Factor VIII antigen, angiotensin converting enzyme activity, numerous tight junctions, and a cell surface that did not bind platelets. A second cell type, which did not exhibit these cell markers and which is presumably the intramural pericyte, was obtained when the isolated microvessels were plated on tissue culture grade plastic in fetal bovine serum.
4292171|The mammalian oocyte becomes arrested at the diplotene stage of the first meiotic division during prenatal or early postnatal life. It remains arrested in meiosis until shortly before ovulation when the surge of gonadotropin induces resumption and completion of meiosis to the metaphase II stage. When oocytes are harvested from medium-sized or large follicles of pig and other species and cultured, they resume meiosis spontaneously indicating that the follicles exert an inhibitory influence on meiosis. To analyze the control of meiosis by follicular components, culture of isolated pig oocytes in the presence of follicular cells or follicular fluid (FF1) has been used as a model in this laboratory. An oocyte maturation inhibitor (OMI) has been isolated and partially purified by ultrafiltration and gel chromatography of FF1 and shown to be a polypeptide with a molecular weight in the order of 2000 daltons. Physiological characterization has shown that the effect of OMI in vitro is reversible and that it can be overcome by luteinizing hormone (LH). The action of OMI requires the presence of cumulus cells surrounding the oocyte since it was found that denuded oocytes, stripped of cumulus cells, do not respond to OMI. Furthermore, when cumulus-enclosed oocytes were cultured, OMI inhibited the differentiation of the cumulus cells in terms of morphology and progesterone secretion in a dose-related manner. The inhibition of cumulus differentiation by OMI was reversible and could be overcome by LH. The results indicate that the effect of partially purified OMI upon meiosis may be mediated by the cumulus cells.
4292653|The enzyme
4292765|We showed previously that sodium butyrate stimulated human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) measured by radioimmunoassay of medium from human second trimester amniotic fluid cell cultures, termed AF cells. We now find that stimulation of hCG in the presence of sodium butyrate takes as long as 20 h. When AF cells are preincubated with sodium butyrate, hCG levels increase in direct relation to length of the preincubation period. These findings suggest that elevation of hCG is not due merely to a release of hormone from the cells. Addition of cycloheximide or Actinomycin D inhibited protein synthesis and RNA synthesis, respectively, and prevented the stimulation of hCG by sodium butyrate. These results lend support for a mechanism of regulation involving protein and RNA synthesis, the increase in hCG levels being due to new synthesis of the hormone. Other agents reported to influence hCG production by different types of cell cultures include dibutyryl cyclic AMP, epidermal growth factor (EGF), methotrexate, and hydroxyurea. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP and EGF have no effect on hCG production in our AF cells: methotrexate causes a minimal increase, hydroxyurea causes a further increase, but sodium butyrate has the strongest stimulatory effect. We conclude that amniotic fluid cells in culture are susceptible to environmental agents capable of modulating synthesis of hCG by mechanisms involving synthesis of RNA and protein.
4292024|The control of proliferation of mesoderm-derived cells by EGF and FGF has been examined taking, as an example, the vascular endothelium. The mechanisms by which cell proliferation can be brought to a stop in vivo and in vitro have been reviewed.
4292255|The effects of various concentrations of horse serum on dissociated mouse glial precursor cells in colony cultures were evaluated. High concentrations (20% or more) favored cell attachment but inhibited cell proliferation and differentiation, whereas lower concentrations (5% to 10%) favored cell proliferation and differentiation. In fetal bovine serum the cells did not attach to culture surfaces to the same degree nor did they achieve the same level of differentiation as in corresponding concentrations of horse serum.
4291963|A method for maintaining mouse mammary gland in organ culture for periods of at least 30 days is described. Strips of the number four mammary glands were cultured in individual tubes while fully submerged in Medium 199 supplemented with insulin, aldosterone, ovine prolactin and bovine growth hormone. Exchange processes were aided by slowly rotating the tubes during culture. Mammary tissue from midpregnant BALB/c and virgin GR/A mice was induced to undergo lobulo-alveolar development, secrete and remain differentiated and metabolically active for the period of culture. Cells of both the ductal and alveolar epithelium continued to synthesize DNA and divide. The submerged roller-tube culture allows the use of larger pieces of tissue than can be accommodated in static culture, and the technique may prove applicable to the culture of a variety of tissues.
20170545|Hepatocytes from livers of rats loaded by Fe-dextran treatment were isolated by an in situ collagenase perfusion technique and evaluated for their biochemical, cytochemical, and morphological characteristics in cell culture. Iron loads 15 times higher than in normal rat liver cells isolated in the same way were retained in the preparations with 40% present as hemosiderin. A simple centrifugation-mathematical approach is described for the calculation of Fe content in the hepatocyte (95%) and reticuloendothelial (5%) fractions in the isolates. The cells were cultured for 22 h without loss of protein synthesis capability or significant changes in cell count, viability, endogenous glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT) or Fe and were morphologically similar in most respects to unloaded (normal) hepatocytes similarly cultured. Studies are in progress to assess the utility of these preparations as a model for Fe mobilization from Fe-loaded animals.
4292607|Four monolayer mammalian cell lines were cured of Mycoplasma hyorhinis infections by cloning in microtiter dishes in the presence of tetracycline and kanamycin. During cloning, cultures were refed with fresh antibiotic containing medium every 2 or 3 d for 14 d and were then cultured without effective antibiotics for at least 21 d. From the four lines we recovered 29 clones, none of which were infected after treatment as judged by the lack of extranuclear fluorescence after staining with the fluorochrome Hoechst 33258, and by normal autoradiographic labeling of the cells by tritiated nucleosides. One clone from each line was tested further by attempted culture of mycoplasmas and was also judged to be uninfected. Infection has not reappeared in any of the clones after extensive culture in the absence of the effective antibiotics.
20170360|A cell line derived from normal fetal canine thymus (Cf2Th) has been in culture since 1967. During cultivation the cells have changed morphologically from a fibroblast-like to flat, fusiform appearance and karyologically from diploid (2n=78) with 76 telocentric autosomes to hypodiploid with newly formed atelocentric chromosomes. The cells retain canine characteristic enzyme activity (G6PD and LDH) as well as cell membrane fluorescence and are free of mycoplasma. High passage cells produce tumors in ATST mice. No endogenous viruses have been detected in these cells. No original publication exists, to date, on the origin of this line, but seed stocks thereof have been distributed to many laboratories and the cells have served as experimental substrates in a number of published works in oncology albeit under different designations. The present information is offered in order to establish the provenance of this valuable cell line and to list characteristics which may serve to monitor for its purity and to distinguish it from other existing cell lines of dog origin also in common use.
4292398|Epithelial and fibroblast cells from adult rat liver were found to differ markedly in their sensitivities to the toxic effects of the purine analog, 8-azaguanine. Epithelial cells were rapidly killed by 8-azaguanine, whereas fibroblast cells suffered no observable toxicity. The resistance of fibroblast cells was not due to impermeability since it was shown by autoradiography that both cell types took up and utilized exogenous purines. Moreover, both cell types were sensitive to 6-thioguanine. The fibroblast cells, however, possessed a greater guanase activity than did the epithelial cells, measured by conversion of 8-azaguanine to 8-azaxanthine in the cell lines. Both cell types possessed hypoxanthineguanine phosphoribosyl transferase for phosphoribosylating exogenous purines and thus making them metabolically available. Epithelial cell lysates convert 8-azaguanine to 8-azaguanosine-5'-monophosphate, the toxic metabolite of 8-azaguanine. Fibroblast cell lysates converted much more 8-azaguanine to 8-azaguanosine, an inactive metabolite, than did the epithelial cells. This conversion was presumably due to the much greater activity of 5-nucleotidase in fibroblasts than epithelial cells; it degrades 8-azaguanosine-5'-monophosphate to 8-azaguanosine. These differences in purine metabolism suggest that fibroblast resistance to 8-azaguanine is due to the combination of a significant guanase activity that limits the amount of 8-azaguanine available and a high 5'-nucleotidase activity that would result in conversion of 8-azaguanosine-5-monophosphate, the toxic metabolite of 8-azaguanine, to 8-azaguanosine.
4292250|Initial trials with tomato-root cultures disclosed the desirability of employing a gently agitated liquid medium containing iron in the chelated form. For the normal cultivars "Ace" and "Tropic," subcultures were best achieved by utilizing sectors that possessed one or more newly emerged laterals. Continuous cultures of a nonlateral-forming tomato mutant, "Diageotropica," and of citron were accomplished by subculturing tips of the elongating primary roots. The tomato roots were cultured in White's medium with the
20170460|Cells of a mouse mammary epithelial cell line as well as fibroblasts from a mouse mammary explant were severely inhibited from proliferating in a medium in which D-valine was substituted for L-valine. After the first few days in D-valine medium, the number of epithelial cells did not increase despite the fact that a few percent continued to synthesize DNA. The cells did recognize the presence of the D-valine in the medium because cells in D-valine increased in volume and their numbers remained stationary, whereas cells without valine shrank and the cell numbers decreased with time.
20170441|Cell lines derived from a murine neuroblastoma, Clone N18, were cured of their M. hyorhinis infection by in vivo passage. The major variable determining success of this method was found to be the incubation time in vivo. Infected cells maintained in vivo for 27 d or more and then placed in culture were free of mycoplasma whereas those maintained in vivo for 7 or 14 d were found to still be infected. This approach to eliminating mycoplasma infection may be successful using other tumor cell lines.
4292546|A clonal cell line (designated MOE CL1) was isolated from the olfactory mucosa of the mouse. A number of growth and biochemical parameters were studied. Our experiments suggest that MOE CL1 cells are olfactory basal cells (undifferentiated neuroblasts).
4292022|The group of naturally occurring plant hormones known as the cytokinins are defined by their ability to stimulate cell division in mature, differentiated, mitotically inactive cells in tissue culture. Evidence from the literature suggests that cytokinins play a specific role in regulating the progress of a plant cell through its division cycle; the hormone appears to trigger the transition from G2 to mitosis. However, the cytokinins are capable of evoking an array of physiological and developmental responses (many of which do not involve cell division) from different plant tissues and organs. One biochemical effect of the cytokinins is a dramatic and rapid stimulation of polyribosome formation in cultured soybean cells which require these hormones for growth. Stationary-phase soybean cells, transferred to a medium containing a cytokinin, double in cell number within 36 hr, but when transferred to a medium of the same composition lacking a cytokinin, they do not grow. In vivo labeling with
4291640|The need for simple reproducible water still performance tests is outlined briefly. Five simple tests based on sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, ammonia, dibutylamine, and carbon dioxide are described. The methods employ an uncomplicated measurement of distillate electrical conductance. The significance of each of the five tests is discussed in terms of still design and operation. Future parts of this series will broaden the variety of performance tests to include, among other things, water impurities which are highly surface-active.
4292380|Platelet-poor plasma, as well as autologous platelet-rich serum, was prepared from freshly-drawn bovine whole blood. Bovine platelet-poor plasma had properties similar to those previously described for human platelet-poor plasma; e.g., it would (a) support the growth of virally transformed but not normal BALB/c 3T3 cells, (b) act synergistically with either partially purified platelet-derived growth factor or fibroblast growth factor to initiate cell replication in quiescent 3T3 cells, and (c) act sequentially with platelet-derived growth factor to initiate 3T3 replication. It appears that bovine serum contains both competence and progression factors and that stimulation of fibroblasts with bovine serum involves at least two sequential stages analogous to those described for stimulation with human serum.
4291866|Proliferation was observed during in vitro cultivation of peritoneal exudate cells that had been educed from a C3H mouse with Freund's incomplete adjuvant. These cells were successfully subcultured by release with trypsin-EDTA solution and are now at passage 108 after 22 months in culture. Using this technique, 12 other rapidly growing peritoneal exudate cultures were obtained, whereas 10 cultures not educed with adjuvant did not proliferate. Characteristics of four adjuvant-induced cell lines established in culture include: rapid attachment to glass, doubling time in culture of 18 to 19 hr, phagocytosis of colloidal carbon, enhanced phagocytosis of specifically sensitized bacteria, epithelium-like morphology, and retention of C3H histocompatible specificities. These cell lines had widely varying chromosome distributions with modes from
4292628|Leakage of lactate dehydrogenase and staining by the vital dye trypan blue were investigated in adult rat hepatocytes at the time of isolation, in suspensions up to 3 h and in primary monolayer cultures up to 3 d. These two parameters of plasma membrane integrity were found to correlate closely in hepatocyte suspensions, but to a lesser degree in mono-layer cultures. Functional activity was demonstrated in culture by glucose consumption and lactic acid production. There was a balance of total lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity over time for both hepatocyte suspensions and cultures. Loss of LDH activity in the cell fraction was accompanied by a corresponding increase in enzyme activity in the media fraction. Lactate dehydrogenase activity per dye-excluding hepatocyte was calculated to be
20170292| The use and construction of an automatic gas tank switching system are described. This device monitors the gas pressure in a CO incubator gas system and automatically switches to a reserve tank when the main supply tank is depleted. The unit contains an alarm system that signals either a loss of power or of gas pressure in the supply system. 
4292611|To define more clearly the in vitro conditions permissive for hormonal induction of functional differentiation, we cultured dissociated normal mammary cells from prelactating mice in or on a variety of substrates. Cultivation of an enriched epithelial cell population in association with living adult mammary stroma in the presence of lactogenic hormones resulted in both morphological and biochemical differentiation. This differentiation, however, was not enhanced over that seen when the cells were associated with killed stroma, provided that the killed stroma had a flexibility similar to that of the living stroma. Cells cultured in inflexible killed stroma usually did not differentiate. Cells cultured within the flexible environment of a collagen gel, but removed from the gas-medium interface, differentiated in a manner similar to those cultured in flexible stroma. Cells cultured on the surface of an attached collagen gel were squamous, and their basolateral surfaces were sequestered from the medium; they did not differentiate. Cells cultured on floating collagen gels were cuboidal-columnar, with basolateral surfaces exposed to the medium, and showed good functional differentiation. Cells cultured on inflexible floating collagen gels were extremely flattened and had exposed basolateral surfaces, and showed no evidence of functional differentiation. We infer that assumption of cuboidal to columnar shapes similar to those of mammary cells in vivo may be important to the induction of functional differentiation in vitro. The additional requirement of basolateral cell surface exposure also is important.
4291841| Using the C3H/10T 1/2 CL8 line of mouse embryo fibroblasts and three different methods of obtaining cell cycle synchrony, namely arginine or isoleucine deficiency and release from postconfluence inhibition of growth, a sensitive phase for oncogenic transformation induced by N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) has been found. This sensitive phase is located somewhere between the G1/S boundary and a point 4 hr prior to this marker. Methylation of cellular macromolecules by tritiated MNNG is not cycle-dependent in cells synchronized by arginine deficiency. The capacity of cells to repair DNA single strand breaks produced by MNNG was examined by alkaline sucrose sedimentation analysis in cells synchronized by arginine deficiency and treated with MNNG during phases of the cell cycle sensitive and insensitive to oncogenic transformation. Whereas DNA repair was found to be equally rapid in cells treated just before S phase (I), or just after commencement of DNA synthesis (III), transformation was maximal in I. By contrast, cells treated when blocked by arginine deficiency (II) repaired DNA slowly and were not sensitive to malignant transformation. Cells in I and II, which repaired DNA at very different rates, were equally sensitive to MNNG-induced lethality, while cells in III, which repaired DNA at the same rate as cells in I, suffered greater lethality. Thus, in this system it was concluded that there was no direct correlation between DNA repair, as measured by alkaline sucrose sedimentation analysis of prelabeled DNA, and malignant transformation or lethality produced by MNNG. In preliminary experiments malignant transformation induced by cytosine arabinoside (1--D-arabinofuranosylcytosine, ara-C) has been found to occur mainly in S phase, indicating that diverse chemical oncogens may have different sites of action, or that activation of chemical oncogens is cell cycle-specific for some agents. 
20170348| Observations were made on the frog lens epithelium after culture of the entire lens or of capsular explants. General deviations from normal lens structure as well as specific changes in two media were studied. DNA synthesis and mitosis were induced in the central epithelial cells. Disruption of the orderly, single, epithelial layer that is characteristic of normal lenses was accompanied by the appearance of multilayered plaques of epithelial cells and invasion of vacuolated regions of the lens fibers by epithelial cells. Cells that are fibroblast-like in appearance were observed in regions of the capsule depleted of cells and at the free edges of epithelial sheets in cell culture. Epithelial cells were surrounded by capsule-like material even when situated in the lens interior. Nuclei derived from central epithelial cells of lenses cultured in L-15 medium and medium 199 had served as donors in previous nuclear transfer experiments in this laboratory. In our current observation of L-15-cultured lenses, cells were sparsely distributed on the capsule and nuclei were abnormally shaped; in 199-cultured lenses, cells were more densely distributed and nuclei resembled those of normal lenses. Medium 199 without serum could better maintain normal lens structure than L-15 medium without serum. In addition, the percentage of epithelial explants demonstrating cellular outgrowth was greater in medium 199. The differences in cellular behavior were shown not to be the result of different sugars, pH, or the presence of CO. The nuclear transfer results may reflect the structural changes in the epithelium after lens culture in the two media. 
20170277|Rat tracheas were each sectioned into fourteen rings of equal size with a slicing device which holds evenly spaced razor blades in register. The razor blades were positioned to minimize shearing of tissues during sectioning so that there was no gross tissue disruption or cell death distant from cut edges. Hundreds of these fragments can be conveniently prepared for studies requiring replicate samples. The cultures can be established in McCoy's 5a (modified) medium with or without calf serum. Cultures grown in the presence of calf serum were compared with those grown in serum-free medium, using vital phase microscopy, transmission and scanning electron microscopy, and light microscopic autoradiography of thymidine incorporation. When there is calf serum in the medium, epithelization of the entire surface of the ring occurs rapidly with the cells flattening and migrating as a sheet of closely apposed cells. Until migration is complete, mitoses are limited to the original mucosa near the cut edge. Without calf serum, migration is slow. The cells do not flatten or become closely apposed. Mitoses appear later but are present on all areas of the surface before migration is complete. In both serum-containing and serum-free media, ciliated cells are included in the migrating population and differentiation into pseudostratified epithelium occurs on newly epithelialized surfaces. The differing pattern of mitotic activity makes culture in serum-containing media more suitable for studies of wound healing and culture in serum-free medium more useful for some cytotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies.
4292522| Serial passage cultures of colonic epithelial cells from young rats have been maintained for more than 6 months in Eagle's minimum essential medium buffered with HEPES (25 mM) and supplemented with 2.5% fetal bovine serum, 0.5 g/ml insulin, 5.0 g/ml transferrin, and antibiotics. The cells proliferated in this medium with a population doubling time of approximately 53 h. The cells retained differentiated morphology as evidenced by secretory activity and the presence of secretory granules, microvilli, tonofilaments, and desmosomal junctions. Further, cells at the fourth passage had normal karyo-types with 42 chromosomes and exhibited anchorage dependent growth. High concentrations of fetal bovine serum (10 to 15%) exerted toxic effects on the colonic epithelial cell cultures. 
4291555|This paper summarizes work done on the induction of the cytodifferentiation of a soil amoeba. The differentiation involves the synthesis of two cyst walls and results in a dormant cell called a cyst. This cytodifferentiation is called encystment. The following observations result from work on synchronously differentiating cultures. The differentiation is under genetic control, is induced by starvation, and occurs only after an induction period. Massive erosion of intracellular components occurs prior to and during the differentiation and provides the materials for the induction and for the syntheses of the differentiation products. The effects of various inhibitors on this induction are also presented. From results obtained, mainly with FUdR and mitomycin C, the following tentative conclusions are drawn: encystment is normally induced when cells are stalled in the terminal portion of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthetic period. Induction of dormancy probably involves two steps, the unwrapping or loosening of material surrounding the differentiation genes, followed by a specific activation.
20170317| The effect on tissue differentiation and growth in vitro of certain of the factors implicated in collagen synthesis (ascorbic acid, -ketoglutarate and oxygen) and the influence of hydrocortisone was studied using organ cultures of fetal mouse mandible as a mixed epithelial and connective tissue system. Using serum-free Waymouth's MB 752/1 chemically-defined medium, addition of high levels of ascorbic acid (300 g per ml), hydrocortisone (1 g per ml) and oxygen (95%) enhanced differentiation in a number of tissues, in particular skin and appendages, tooth germs and bone, while osteoid and dentine production were noticeably promoted. It is suggested that an essential aspect of media design for organ culture involves the incorporation of collagen-promoting factors to the in vitro environment particularly with regard to the controlling role implicated for collagen in a variety of biological processes. 
4291656|An important development in the field of plant cell and tissue culture has been the demonstration in the past decade of the totipotency of higher plant cells. Isolated single cells were first successfully grown on a nurse tissue separated by a filter paper and gave rise to a callus tissue. Later, completely isolated single cells of tobacco were grown in microchambers to form small clumps of cells which then could be differentiated to form adult tobacco plants. Indirect evidence of the totipotency of higher plant cells has also been provided in a number of other plants. Embryo-like structures (or embryoids) or whole plants, or both, have been obtained from such highly differentiated cells as the pollen grains (gametic and haploid), photosynthetic palisade cells in leaves, epidermal cells from the hypocotyl, and the triploid endosperm cells; all of these cell types perform very highly specialized functions in the plant. Plant protoplasts (cell wall is digested with enzymes) have also been cultured to give rise to normal adult plants. In many instances embryoids have been produced in vitro from several species of flowering plants which do not show such asexual activity in nature. These embryoids are normally indistinguishable morphologically from embryos produced by gametic fusion, often follow the same pattern of cell divisions and differentiation as the developing zygote, and are economically important as they provide clonal populations. Early work in this area emphasized the necessity of dissociating tissues into single cells and providing a nutritional environment identical to that of the zygote in the embryo sac (usually by supplementing the medium with liquid endosperm from coconuts), before the cells could be released morphogenetically to express their totipotency by forming embryoids. Much of the recent work, however, has shown that perfect development of embryoids can be obtained in completely synthetic media in callus tissues as well as in suspension cultures.
4292729|Reducing serum concentrations in media provides a potential cost advantage. To determine whether such media could be used for applied mutagenesis assays, we measured cloning efficiency and growth parameters in suspension of Chinese hamster ovary cells cultured in reduced serum with or without additives (
20170276|Procedures and solutions were developed for dissociating embryos of Blattella germanica in preparation for primary cell culture. Trypsin solutions were maximally effective at 0.01% for germ bands but higher concentrations, 0.05 to 0.1% were needed for embryos in later stages.
4292470|Entire second thoracic mammary glands of estrogen and progesterone-treated immature virgin BALB/c mice were stimulated to pregnancylike lobuloalveolar morphogenesis after 6 days of incubation with insulin (
4292529|All P. americana cell lines, whatever tissue of origin, manifest similar vitamin requirements, except for ascorbic acid and vitamin B12. Investigations with chemically defined culture media reveal specific needs for purine and pyrimidine precursors and specific interactions between cyanocobalamin, folate, and methionine. Deficiency of one of these vitamins is always more drastic than deficiencies of both. Lethal effects can be prevented by increasing the concentration of methionine. Furthermore, the degree to which vitamin B12 or folate are needed depends on the extracellular concentration of nutrients. These nutrients include the mentioned vitamins and metabolites whose synthesis is vitamin dependent.
4292374|A survey of commercially available media revealed that medium F-12 was superior to medium 199 for clonal growth of human epidermal keratinocytes (HK) when supplemented with
4292149|The number of population doublings of cultured human arterial smooth-muscle cells decreased as a function of donor age (0.5 to 82 years). Cells from older donors also showed longer latent periods for outgrowth from explants. These results extend other comparable observations with human skin fibroblasts to another cell type, and may have relevance to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis with aging in vivo.
4292338|Two cell cultures were obtained from excised tumors of two cases of infantile digital fibromatosis (IDF). The cells had eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusion bodies characteristic of IDF. Although the rate of cells bearing the inclusion bodies was high at the earlier passage levels, it was reduced to zero by the 15th passage of one of the cultures, but the cells of the other culture continued to produce the inclusion bodies even at the 30th passage. Chromosome analysis revealed both cultures to have tetraploid cells in approximately 8 to 12% in late passage levels. No viruslike particles were found in electron microscopy. No tumors developed when the cells were inoculated into athymic, nude mice subcutaneously. These cell cultures will be valuable for characterizing the eosinophilic inclusion bodies and determining the origin of the tumors.
4292018|Serum is the last undefined component in cell culture media. Our results indicate that the primary role of serum is to provide hormones and that serum can be replaced by a group of hormones. A rat pituitary cell line,
4292248|Explants of fetal rat liver maintained in organ culture lost about 40% of their mass in 42 hr of incubation as a result of decrease in blood cells and hepatocytes. Proteins from the cytosol and particulate elements of the tissue were found in the culture medium. About 60% of this protein was degraded to peptides during culture. The transfer of malate and lactate dehydrogenases from tissue to medium paralleled that of proteins. Glutarnate dehydrogenase was lost from the mitochondria and in part leaked through the cell membrane into the medium. Net loss of activity of the three enzymes occurred, probably as a consequence of proteolytic degradation. Of 12 enzymes in liver tissue, the specific activities of eight-soluble malate dehydrogenase, glutamate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase, phosphopyruvate carboxylase, hexosediphosphatase, glucose-6-phosphatase, tyrosine aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase-were unchanged or increased. Glycogen synthetase, aspartate aminotransferase, pyruvate kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase decreased. Although changes in membrane permeability may have had some influence on the results reported, the predominant effect was due to loss of protein from tissue as a result of discharge of total contents of some of the cells into the medium. The residual explanted tissue retained its structural integrity. It is concluded that fetal rat liver in organ culture provides a suitable model system for controlled studies with this organ in vitro.
4291803|Many organs of Viviparus viviparus were explanted into a culture medium of low osmotic pressure, adapted for fresh water molluscs. The development in vitro of the explants differed according to the particular organ. The best results were obtained with the heart, which was still contracting after 2 months in culture, and with the tentacle, which remained excitable for a period of 6 to 7 weeks. The central nervous system survived well for 18 to 20 days. The fragments of digestive gland died rapidly, in about 1 week. Fragments of intestine retained a normal appearance for 2 weeks. The period of survival of male or female gonads was also 2 to 3 weeks. Vitellogenesis did not proceed very far in the ovary, but the young oocytes remained healthy. In the testis, only spermatogonia persisted and continued to divide during the culture period: further stages would appear to require a hormonal supplement.
4292884|Photoelectron spectroscopic examination of treated plastic surfaces showed that surface oxidation, primarily as carboxyl groups, was responsible for formation of good growth surfaces. Gas-plasma studies indicated that only very short exposures were required and that the effect was confined to a thin surface layer that produced adhesive surfaces. Highly adhesive surfaces were produced using oxidizing chemicals. Studies with a polymeric ester demonstrated the importance of unesterified carboxyl groups for high adhesiveness.
4292301| Three independently isolated tobacco crown gall strains incited by Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58 required phytohormone (auxin and cytokinin) supplements in the basal medium to grow, at 37 C. Six other tobacco crown gall strains incited, respectively, by A. tumefaciens IIBV7, B6, CGIC, A6NC, 27 and AT4 expressed, at 37 C, the tumor characteristic of ability to grow in vitro on medium lacking phytohormones. Nopaline was not detectable in C58 tumors cultured at 37 C, but octopine was produced by B6 tumor tissues incubated at the elevated temperature. C58 tumor strains kept at 37 C for 1 week or more lost the ability to express tumor characteristics at 27 C such as tissue morphology, growth on basal medium lacking phytohormones and nopaline production. Heat-treated C58 tissues also differed from the original tumor strain in regeneration ability and phytohormone requirements of explants; i.e. explants from regenerated, heat-treated C58 tumors required both auxin and cytokinin for growth in vitro. 
4292732|Satellite cells, liberated from pectoral muscle of juvenile dystrophic chickens by sequential treatment with collagenase, hyaluronidase, and trypsin and preplated to remove fibroblasts and cultured on gelatin proliferated rapidly, fused and formed confluent muscle cultures within 6 d in vitro with minimal contamination by fibroblasts. When identical isolation and culturing techniques were applied to muscle from age-matched normal chickens proliferation and differentiation were slower, contamination with fibroblasts was much greater, and only a small number of myotubes were formed. After injection of the myotoxic anesthetic marcaine into normal pectoral muscle for 5 consecutive days, myotube formation was accelerated in satellite cell cultures, but the rate of differentiation was not as rapid as that occurring in cells from dystrophic muscle.
4292316|Time-lapse phase-contrast cinematography revealed contractile activity within mouse submandibular salivary gland rudiments in organotypic culture. Three types of contraction were distinguishable. In type I (voiding contractions), all portions of the gland contracted synchronously, and the active state ranged from 30 min to 2 hr. In type II (priming contractions), all portions of the gland contracted synchronously, but the active state was shorter, ranging from 4 to 10 min. In type III (churning contractions), isolated foci in lobules or secretory units throughout the gland contracted asynchronously and had very short active states of about 1 min. By electron microscopy, myoepithelial cells could first be demonstrated in submandibular glands developing either in vitro or in vivo, at 21 days postconception. Contractions in the cultured rudiments began as early as 18 days postconception. Since neither smooth nor striated muscle could be identified in these glands by electron microscopy, the contractions are believed to result from myoepithelial activity that apparently may begin before ultrastructural evidence of myoepithelial differentiation is clearly present. Although, for over a century, myoepithelium has been presumed to have a contractile function and indirect evidence has lent ample support to this presumption, the present study represents the first direct cinematographic demonstration and characterization of myoepithelial contractions, under conditions in vitro.
4292481|Cortisol was previously shown to elicit a concentration-dependent inhibition of
4292111| Wing imaginal disks were dissected from larvae of Plodia interpunctella (Hbner) at various stages during the larval-pupal transformation. The wing-disk proteins separated by electrophoresis and scanned with a densitometer changed quantitatively but not qualitatively during development in vivo. Treatment of wing disks in vitro with -ecdysone resulted in a 2-fold increase in synthesis of proteins after only 2 hr incubation. The maximum rate of protein synthesis was reached 16 hr after treatment with hormone. The pattern of proteins separated by electrophoresis of wing disks that were incubated in vitro with -ecdysone did not change qualitatively. The major features of protein synthesis during wing-disk development in vivo were similar to those observed during -ecdysone-induced development in vitro. 
4291636|Ribosomal ribonucleic acids (rRNA's) of cultured cells from various species were compared by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Electrophoretic mobility of the 28 S RNA component varied according to species. Human cell 28 S rRNA was distinguishable from that of monkey cells. The mobility of chimpanzee 28 S rRNA was identical to that from human cells, but different from that of monkey cells. Cat, goat, and swine cell 28 S rRNA's were distinguishable from one another and from both human and monkey cell rRNA's. The mobilities of bovine, rabbit, rat, hamster, and mouse cell 28 S rRNA's were virtually identical to that from monkey cells. No apparent correlation existed between the mobility of 28 S rRNA and the currently accepted phylogenetic position of the donors. Normal cells, tumor cells, and virus-infected cells from the same species did not differ, but in some instances embryonic and adult cells were distinguishable. The 18 S rRNA components did not show variations comparable to those of the 28 S rRNA components.
4292707|Human tumor cell lines, derived from cancers of the colon, ovary, and cervix, were grown in liquid tissue culture media and media made semisolid with agar (Bacto & deoxycholate lactose agar), agarose [LE, ME, Sea Plaque and Sea Prep (15/45)], and methyl cellulose. The effects of each agent on overall cell proliferation and rate of overall cell proliferation were examined. The agents, used to make media semisolid, were observed to inhibit or, in some cases, enhance cell growth in a fashion that was characteristic of individual cell lines. These phenomena may be of consequence to the optimization of nutrient media for primary tumor cell preparations.
4291901|Mitotic activity in confluent cultures of human diploid fibroblasts was arrested by the reduction of the serum concentration of the incubation medium to 0.5% or by the addition of 0.5 mM 6-N, 2'-O-dibutyryl-adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (db cAMP). Under either of these conditions, cultures maintained a constant cell number for 14 days; cultures continuously exposed to medium containing 10% serum doubled their cell number during this 14-day period. The protein content per cell decreased by 20% when cells were maintained with 0.5% serum whereas that of cells exposed to db cAMP remained constant. Ultrastructural studies revealed that cells exposed to db cAMP exhibited a morphology typical of cells cultured with 10% serum alone, whereas cells incubated with 0.5% serum showed the ultrastructural changes in mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex previously identified with low-serum arrest. Cellular adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) levels remained constant during the 7-day growth period in which confluency was attained, as well as during the 14-day arrested period with 0.5% serum. These results indicated that the mitotic inhibition induced by reducing the serum concentration of the incubation medium was not mediated by increased intracellular levels of cAMP and differed from that induced by the addition of exogenous db cAMP.
4292519|The
4291680|The primary goal of this study was to develop and characterize diploid cell lines from fetal tissues of subhuman primates for use in virus vaccine production. Cell lines have been established from fetal tissues of rhesus and African green monkeys, and these have been characterized according to the general criteria recommended by the International Cell Committee for Microbiological Standardization. Of these cell lines, DBS-FRhL-2, developed from lung tissue of a rhesus monkey fetus, has been found to meet the requirements of populations proposed as substrates for virus vaccines. Characterization studies show that DBS-FRhL-2 cells have a finite life of more than 50 population doublings in vitro and maintain the diploid karyotype through an active growth phase. The cells are nontumorigenic, and tests have not revealed the presence of adventitious agents. They are susceptible to a number of human viruses and can be preserved by freezing without change in virus susceptibility, cytogenetic, or growth characteristics. These results indicate the need for further evaluation of this rhesus monkey diploid cell line for acceptability as an alternate substrate in the manufacture of human virus vaccines.
4292269|A human breast tumor cell line BT-474 derived from an invasive ductal carcinoma was experimentally infected in vitro with a mouse mammary tumor virus from the RIII strain (RIII-MuMTV). The virus that replicated in the human cells was characterized as a mouse virus by immunofluorescence, electron microscopy and the presence of a specific RNA-directed DNA polymerase. The cells themselves were human as per the karyotype and isoenzyme migration patterns. It is concluded that human cells are susceptible to the mouse mammary tumor virus and can, eventually, support its replication.
4292885|Senescent and young bovine arterial endothelial cells derived from the same parental cell clone were compared to test the effect of in vitro endothelial cell senescence on low density lipoprotein (LDL) and modified LDL-receptor activities. Low density lipoprotein binding and degradation were both increased in cells that underwent a larger number of population doublings, whereas acetyl LDL binding and degradation were unchanged. The increased LDL-receptor activity associated with endothelial cell senescence remained significant after variation of cell number among senescent and young clones was taken into account. Thus, aging endothelial cells seem capable of continuing to process LDL and modified LDL, which could play a role in the arterial wall changes that occur with age in vivo.
4292074|Seed stocks of human cell lines deposited at the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) have been examined for cross-contamination with HeLa cells using Giemsa-banded marker chromosomes. Sixteen additional cell lines investigated have been found to exhibit marker chromosomes typical of HeLa cells. Quinacrine fluorescence studies further revealed the absence of Y chromosome in these lines. These observations indicate that the lines are HeLa derivatives.
4292122| Thirty-seven strains of HeLa cells were examined for their ability to synthesize human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and its alpha subunit (hCG-) in culture. Synthesis of hCG- and hCG also was investigated in the presence of sodium butyrate and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdUrd). All HeLa strains synthesized hCG- in culture. Sodium butyrate increased the synthesis of hCG- in all HeLa cells; BrdUrd increased synthesis in 32 of the 37 strains examined. Although few HeLa strains synthesized hCG in the absence of inducers, hCG was detected in most strains in the presence of sodium butyrate. The synthesis of hCG and its alpha subunit is, therefore, a stable genetic characteristic of HeLa cells. 
4292292|Callus tissue of Haworthia mirabilis Haw. was irradiated with
4292055|A medium for optimal growth of embryos of Jamaican Tall and Green Malayan Dwarf varieties of coconut palm was developed. The liquid basal Murashige and Skoog medium was supplemented with coconut milk, IAA and 2IP. Activated charcoal improved embryo growth on agar medium. A single callus line was initiated from solid endosperm and subcultured on basal Schenk and Hildebrandt medium supplemented with 2 mg per 1 NAA. Attempts at inducing organogenesis in the callus were unsuccessful. No vascular tissue was present. The callus was aneuploid with the chromosome number = 8 (normal 2n = 32).
20170507|Hepatocyte primary cultures (HPC) derived from rat, mouse, hamster, and rabbit liver were characterized for a variety of parameters. The conditions that maximized recovery, attachment, and survival varied between species. Hepatocytes from all four species were capable of attaching in serum-free Williams' medium E (WME), but optimal attachment as monolayer cultures was achieved for mouse and hamster HPC in medium receiving 1% calf serum supplementation. Hamster hepatocytes required additional cations, whereas rabbit and rat hepatocytes displayed maximal attachment in medium supplemented with 10% calf serum. Survival of mouse and rabbit hepatocytes after 24 h in serum supplemented media was in the order of 90%. Rat and hamster hepatocyte 24 h survival was approximately 70 and 60%, respectively, and was not significantly affected by serum supplementation. Hepatocytes from each species varied in their content of cytochrome P450 at the time of isolation and in the rate of reduction during culture. Mouse and rat hepatocytes demonstrated the most rapid decline in content during the initial 24 h in culture, whereas concentrations in rabbit hepatocytes were virtually unchanged. The rate of decline in P450 concentrations in hamster hepatocytes was intermediate between those displayed by rat and rabbit hepatocytes. These studies have delineated conditions useful for the culture of hepatocytes from four species and have documented the status of an important parameter of their functional capability.
4292820|Two new cell lines, designated IPLB-DU182A and IPLB-DU182E, were developed from embryos of the southern corn rootworm, Diabrotica undecimpunctata. Cells were grown in the lepidopteran cell culture media IPL-52B and IPL-76 in a 3:1 ratio with 9% fetal bovine serum. The IPL-52B was modified by deleting
4291817|A new method for dispersing strongly adhesive cells, which uses trypsin, EDTA, and ultrasonic sound at nondestructive levels, has been applied to cultures of rainbow trout gonad (RTG-2) cells and has yielded monodisperse cells. Cells dispersed with combined chemical and sonic treatment exhibited the same settling and adhesion times as those transferred without ultrasonic treatment. As measured by trypan blue dye exclusion, viability of cells after this isolation technique was 94%. The method allows 100% recovery of cells from dense cultures, yields monodisperse cells in suspension, and reduces trypsin contact time.
4291960|Three strains of human skin fibroblasts were cultivated in nutrient medium supplemented either with human serum or fetal bovine serum, and growth and lipid synthesis were compared. Rates of cellular growth were similar in both kinds of medium, but the replicative life spans of all three strains were curtailed significantly in human-serum medium. Incorporation of label into the major classes of neutral lipids from
4292718|Two human lymphoblastoid cell lines, GM 1989, from a normal individual, and GM 2345, from a patient with xeroderma pigmentosum, complementation group A, were selected for comparative biochemical studies because they both grow rapidly and at virtually identical rates in sealed flasks in RPMI 1640 medium buffered to physiological pH with HEPES buffer, supplemented with 12% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum. Although the two cell lines showed no difference in growth parameters assayed by standard methods, further studies showed that the GM 2345 cell line was markedly more sensitive to diminution of the serum concentration of the culture medium than was the normal cell line. These results indicate that lymphoblastoid cell lines, particularly those from individuals with certain genetic or metabolic diseases, may be growing under marginal or limiting circumstances, different from those of control cell lines, which are not detected by standard techniques used to monitor mammalian cell cultures.
4292311|Segments of human thoracic aorta were maintained in long-term explant culture for 18 weeks in serum-supplemented medium. The aortas were grossly normal in appearance, and random samples fixed for light microscopy prior to culture revealed a normal morphology. The intima contained no more than five layers of smooth muscle cells. After 7 days in culture, the intima was noticeably thicker than the uncultured segments. The increased thickness was due to proliferating smooth muscle cells and production of extracellular material. After several months in culture, extracellular material consisting of collagen and flocculent material was present in areas resembling atherosclerotic fibrous plaques. A peripheral growth, which formed around the explant, was composed of fibroblastlike cells and added to the overall thickness of the intima. However, aortic segment maintained for up to 2 months in serum-free culture medium showed no cellular proliferation. This study demonstrates that changes resembling early stages of atherosclerosis occur in human aortas maintained in explant culture using routine culture procedures.
20170372|The mouse genetic map has been characterized largely through breeding studies based on the principles of Mendelian genetics. More recently, specific genetic information has been obtained from somatic cell studies using the techniques of in situ hybridization and somatic cell hybridization. The genetic analysis possible through these sexual and parasexual approaches is described, and specific linkage information from recent somatic cell studies is reviewed.
4292622|Many new technologies arrived at through basic research have practical applications. Two recent breakthroughs in microbiology, recombinant DNA techniques and hybridoma techniques, will permit designing cells for specific practical purposes resulting in new products or functions of commercial significance. The unique cell or its usefulness, or both, may satisfy the requirements of a patentable invention, i.e. an inventive act having utility and novelty. Ownership of such patents permits recovery of expenses incurred in the invention process and investment for all concerned in additional research. An integral part of the patenting process is submission of the new cell to an official repository, an outstanding example of which is The American Type Culture Collection.
4291856|A series of hydrolytic enzymes were compared with lysolecithin, glycerol monooleate, and inactivated Sendai virus for their ability to bring about the fusion of several human and mouse lymphoid cell lines. The agents were tried alone and in various combinations, and a variety of incubation conditions were tested to determine those optimal for fusion. Sendai virus was found to produce the best results with the mouse lymphoid cells; lysolecithin plus glycerol monooleate was slightly superior with the human lymphoid cells. A mixture of hyaluronidase plus collagenase produced low (2 to 6%), but significant, fusion of the human lymphoid cells; both the human and mouse lymphoid cell lines were found to contain relatively high amounts of prolyl hydroxylase, the enzyme which forms collagen from protocollagen. The maximum fusion obtained with the human cells was 16%; with a mouse plasmacytoma line, the maximum was 7.5%; and with a mouse leukemic line derived from L5178Y, the maximum was 60%.
20170373|Comparative mapping, or ascertaining the gene linkage relationships between different species, is rapidly developing. This is possible because new techniques in chromosome identification and somatic cell hybridization, such as the generation of hybrids preferentially segregating chromosomes of any desired species including rodents, and the development of gene transfer techniques have yielded new information about the human and rodent gene maps. In addition, the discovery and characterization of mouse subspecies has generated new mouse sexual genetic linkage data. The following picture is emerging. Several X-linked genes in man are X-linked in all mammalian species tested. The linkage relationships of several tightly linked genes, less than 1 map unit apart, are also conserved in all mammalian species tested. Ape autosomal genes are assigned to ape chromosomes homologous to their human counterparts indicating extensive conservation in the 12 million years (MYR) of evolution from apes to man. Similarly, mouse and rat, 10 MYR apart in evolution, have several large autosomal synteny groups conserved. In comparing the mouse and human gene maps we find that human genes assigned to different arms of the same human chromosome are unlinked in the mouse; mouse genes large map distances (20 to 45 cM) apart are very likely to be unlinked in the human. However, several autosomal synteny groups 10 to 20 cM apart, including the Pgd, Eno-1 Pgm-1 group on human chromosome arm 1p, are conserved in mice and man. This suggests that homology mapping, the superimposition of one species gene map on the homologous conserved portion of another species genome may be possible, and that ancestral autosomal synteny groups should be detectable.
4292437|A screening technique was developed for the identification of clones of hepatoma cells that secrete albumin. The technique employs the overlay of a 1% agarose solution containing antiserum to albumin onto clones of hepatoma cells. A distinct immunoprecipitation complex is formed in the immuno-overlay that corresponds directly to the position of each secreting clone. Clones deficient in albumin secretion do not form an immunoprecipitate. Thus comparison of the immuno-overlay and the cell colonies results in identification of variant clones as well as those capable of secretion. Biochemical characterization of the region of agarose overlay from secreting and nonsecreting clones demonstrates the specificity of the method and its potential for selection of colonies that are secreting other hepatic or cellular proteins.
4291578|Established cell lines of mammary epithelium have been obtained from mice, rats, and hamsters. Maintenance and replication of the epithelium in serial subcultures were dependent on their periodic treatment with collagenase. Because collagenase is not cytotoxic and has maximum efficiency at neutral pH in isotonic saline solutions containing calcium and magnesium, this enzyme can be introduced directly into the culture medium; cells have been maintained for 3 days in such a medium with serous enrichment at no detriment to them. Up to 10% concentrations of serum have not interfered with enzymatic activity.
4292008| A new, rapid technique for the propagation of amaryllis (Hippeastrum spp. hybrids) by means of tissue culture is reported. Leaf bases, scapes, peduncles, inner bulb scales and ovaries were cultured successfully in vitro and plantlets were induced readily at various concentrations of growth regulators. Some plantlets also were produced in the absence of growth regulators. The most productive tissues for propagation were inverted scapes and peduncles, cultured in a modified Murashige and Skoog salt solution with added organic constituents and 1 mg per l (4.5 M) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 1 mg per l (4.4 M) 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). Plantlets induced axenically also grew roots on the generalized shoot-inducing medium so that no special rooting medium was required. Although friable callus was obtained from ovary tissue cultured on a medium containing 2 mg per l(11 M) naphthaleneacetic acid and 4 mg per l (18 M) BAP, it produced shoots after 8 weeks of further subculture on the same medium. An average of 10 rooted plantlets was obtained from each scape or peduncle explant on the shoot-propagating medium. Thus, if 45 explants are obtained from each bulb, 450 rudimentary plantlets could be obtained from each mother bulb in 8 weeks of culture. This is a substantial increase over present propagation methods. 
4292373|An improved procedure has been developed for clonal growth of normal human epidermal keratinocytes (HK) without feeder cells or conditioned medium. The use of medium 199, supplemented with
20170368| A new technique for organ culture which uses plastic culture chambers and the advantages of the cellophane-sheet technique is described with the results of a study of cultivations of fetal mouse liver. Two chambers, each containing cells, were placed in gas permeable roller tubes and rotated at 0.1 rpm in a CO-air gassed incubator. The fetal mouse liver cells developed electron microscopic features similar to those of the in vivo adult liver by 9 days of cultivation. The albumin content and tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) activity were detected in the cultivated liver. TAT activity was further induced by prednisolone. These results indicate the potential of this culture method for the study of physiological and pathological processes. 
4291709|A cell line, MSC, chronically infected with the MSV-M sarcoma-leukemia virus complex, was exposed to the ribonucleic acid (RNA)-dependent deoxyribonucleic acid polymerase inhibitor streptonigrin (SN). Replication of cells was inhibited by nanogram concentrations of the drug. Some resistant cells were isolated and passed in the presence of SN. The retention of resistance was dependent on continuous presence of the inhibitor. Virus production by the resistant cells was reduced, but not eliminated. Furthermore, the drug inhibited RNA synthesis in secondary mouse embryo fibroblasts, but not in the MSC cells.
4292040|The effect of various plant growth substances as single agents was evaluated in a complex tissue culture system: whole embryo culture of early differentiating barley embryos. Callus formation in unsupplemented medium derives from the mesocotyl and is uniquely characteristic of cultures initiated at this stage of embryonic development. This phenomenon could be prevented or reversed by incorporation of gibberellic acid in the medium resulting in plantlet formation. Indoleacetic acid enhanced callus growth, whereas kinetin did not promote either callus or meristematic development. Callus tissue markedly accumulated starch, effectively lowering the cellular osmolarity, while inducing a corresponding rise in the osmolarity of the culture medium. This osmotic pattern was reversed by gibberellic acid induction of shoot formation. These osmotic-hormonal interactions are interpreted relative to in vivo, in situ normal embryogeny or developmental lesions such as tumors.
4291966|The amount of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in hamster trachea organ cultures was determined with a technique based on light emission from a luciferin/luciferase/ATP reaction. The amount of ATP, expressed as ng per mg dry weight, was consistent in tracheal explants prepared from various animals and changed negligibly when explants were cultivated in vitro for several days. The amount of ATP was related directly to cellular activity and integrity in the epithelium since inactivation by heat or freeze-thaw rapidly depleted measurable ATP, and ciliary activity and ATP content were related directly. When tracheal explants were infected with 10
4291954|The secretion of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is stimulated by addition of N
4292161|Viruses were detected in 32 of the culture medium supernates from 42 Drosophila melanogaster cell lines. The picornaviruses DCV, DPV and DAV, which also have been found in natural and laboratory populations of flies, were detected as well as the diplornavirus DXV which has never been noted in Drosophila stocks. Two of the 21 samples of commercial fetal bovine sera that were examined were found to be capable of causing infections of DXV in virus-free Drosophila flies. It is inferred that the insects used to initiate the cell lines, the sera used in the culture media, and accidental contaminations account for the presence of viruses in the continuously cultured Drosophila cell lines.
20170459|Angiotensin I-converting enzyme is responsible for the activation of angiotensin I and the inactivation of bradykinin. It has been localized by immunofluorescence on the endothelium of a variety of tissues and has been considered to be a specific marker for endo-thelial cells in culture. The present paper demonstrates, by immunofluorescence, the presence of angiotensin I-converting enzyme in monolayer cultures of fibroblasts derived from adult rat lung, bovine calf pulmonary artery, and human foreskin (CF-3 cells). Fluorescent localization of angiotensin I-converting enzyme was observed over the cytoplasm of adult rat lung and bovine calf pulmonary artery fibroblasts and as distinct areas overlying the nuclei of human foreskin fibroblasts. Determination of angiotensin I-converting enzyme activity by fluorimetric assay in parallel studies confirmed the presence of angiotensin I-converting enzyme activity in cultured fibroblasts. Immunofluorescent studies with antibody to Factor VIII demonstrated the presence of Factor VIII on cultured endothelial cells but not on fibroblasts. These results indicate that angiotensin I-converting enzyme is not confined to endothelial cells, and thus may not serve as a specific marker for endothelial cells in culture. Factor VIII may be a more specific marker for these cells.
4292472|In primary hepatocyte cultures, maintained in a protein-free medium, streptomycin, penicillin, and Garamycin (gentamicin) all inhibited protein synthesis at concentrations above 0.1 mM. Some inhibition was also observed with the fungicide Mycostatin at 100 U/ml. Hepatocytic protein degradation was markedly inhibited by penicillin at concentrations above 0.1 mM, whereas streptomycin and Garamycin only showed slight inhibition at concentrations in excess of 1 mM. None of the antibiotics had any detectable effect on the structural integrity (viability) of the cells.
20170351| Dispersed vascular muscle cells from chick omphalomesenteric vessels maintained in primary cell culture contracted spontaneously. Six methods which produced contracting isolated muscle cells are described and compared. The combination of dispersion method and culture conditions to produce contracting muscle cells was more critical for vascular than for heart muscle. These findings of continuing pacemaker function demonstrate that functional integrity of isolated vascular muscle cells is possible to maintain. Further indication of the full functional state of the isolated vascular muscle cells was demonstrated by the sensitivity to norepinephrine at a physiological concentration (0.1 M). Spontaneous contraction frequencies were similar to the range found in situ, and spontaneous or norepinephrine-induced contractions had time courses corresponding to intact vessel contractions. This is the first report that isolated vascular muscle cells in primary cell culture retain functional characteristics found in situ and are suitable for pharmacological characterization of individual muscle cells. 
4292146|A few cell lines and primary monolayer cultures were accidentally infected by bacteria. These cultures were successfully decontaminated by means of the specific bacteriophage virus after quick identification of the responsible bacteria. This method presents a practical interest for preservation of valuable cultures.
4292135|The growth of human glioma cells, cultured as spherical colonies in agarose gel, stopped after about 10 days for both large and small colonies apparently due to an increased osmolality in the gel. When osmolality was kept under control by addition of distilled water, growth continued. However, a continuous increase in the population-doubling period, similar for both large and small colonies, then was observed. The increase persisted although excess amounts of nutrition were added. When the cells were cultured in liquid suspension above a thin layer of agarose gel and most of the medium was repeatedly changed, the colonies continued to grow beyond the limits in gel culture. HeLa and hamster embryonic lung cell colonies showed a growth pattern in agarose gel similar to the glioma cells. The results imply that the osmolality must be kept under precise control to prevent growth inhibition. However, it seems difficult to ascertain optimal growth in gel culture for more than about 2 weeks probably because of the accumulation of toxic products.
4292866| Nine permanent cell lines have been established from five species of salmonids native to America's Pacific Northwest. With the exception of a hepatoma from an adult trout, the lines were derived from normal tissues of embryonic or juvenile fish. Cells were routinely grown in Eagle's minimum essential medium with 10% fetal bovine serum. Optimum growth temperatures for these lines ranged from 21 to 24 C. All survived storage for at least 1 yr at -65 C and at least 5 yr in liquid nitrogen. Six of the lines were demonstrably free of any microbial contamination but mycoplasmas were found in three. Eight of the lines were heteroploid. The morphology of only one was fibroblastic. All the lines effectively replicated one or more of the common salmonid viruses. Isozyme patterns were consistent with those of the species of origin. These cell lines have significant application in fish virology. 
20170557|Reuber H-35 hepatoma cells were examined for their ability to synthesize protein in vitro, especially to produce alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). The presence of AFP in the culture supernatant solution was determined immunologically by the micro-Ouchterlony method. Charge heterogeneity of AFP was examined electrophoretically in continuous gradient polyacrylamide microgels. With regard to the duration of culture, there was no remarkable change in the ratio of two peaks of AFP, and which came out as a major combined peak and a similar peak by PAS staining on the condition of added SDS. These findings indicated that Reuber H-35 hepatoma cells had potential to produce two charge variants of AFP in vitro.
4291734|The incorporation of
4292137|By using whole-chick-embryo cultures followed by fragment cultures of spinal-cord primordia, it was possible to reproduce in vitro the whole process of neuronal development beginning with its initiation and continuing up to and including the maturation of neurons. Normal whole embryos were developed to Hamilton-Hamburger stages 17 and 18 by growing embryos from the primitive streak stage on large (28-mm) glass rings. The advantage of whole-embryo cultures is that development can be staged accurately, which is especially important during the early stages when morphogenesis progresses very rapidly. By using such accurately staged embryos and tritiated thymidine, we have determined that some postmitotic neuronal precursor cells appear in chick embryos as early as Hamburger-Hamilton stages 4 and 5, i.e. the definitive streak stages before the neural tube has formed.
4292889|A new cell line was developed from 3-d-old embryonated eggs of the cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni, and has been designated
4292177|The antiviral drugs amantadine hydrochloride and rimantadine hydrochloride were tested as to their oncogenic potential using a serial line of Fischer rat embryo cells that previously had been shown to be an accurate indicator of chemicals known to be oncogenic in animal studies. Neither compound was found to have transforming activity. At slightly toxic levels, rimantadine hydrochloride, but not amantadine hydrochloride, protected the same cell line from the transformation induced by the polycyclic hydrocarbons 3-methylcholanthrene and benzol(a)pyrene.
20170481|When L-929 mouse fibroblasts grown in Eagle's medium (MEM) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) were stored in a monodisperse suspension at 4 C, the viability decreased rapidly from the beginning of storage. The viability in this study was determined by counting electronically the number of cells with the capacity to attach to glass substrate and with the membrane boundary resistant to a proteolytic digestion. When, however, the dissociated cells were preincubated briefly at 37 C, and subsequently stored at 4 C as they were attaching on a glass substrate, the rapid loss of viability could be reduced effectively. A biphasic survival profile consisting of an initial phase of slowly decreasing viability and the subsequent phase of rapidly decreasing viability were then observed. The rapid viability loss occurred not only when the cell suspension was prepared by mechanical dislodging but also after trypsinization or dispase treatment. Such viability loss was also observed when the dissociated cells were not stored at 4 C directly but preincubated in a monodisperse suspension at 37 C in a siliconized plate and then stored at 4 C. The above results show that the rapid loss of viability is associated closely with the fact that the cells were not attached to the substrate but in suspension.
4292531| An improved semiautomated procedure for growing a cell line from the fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda, under optimal conditions, in a stationary large scale culture is described in detail. Complete supplementation of the medium, with final adjustment of osmolarity and pH prior to filtration, resulted in a 20-fold increase in cell yield and a reduced population doubling time with this insect cell line. This complete medium, when stored at 4 C for 6 months, supported cell growth equally well when compared to the yield of the cells grown in freshly prepared medium. Air used to pressurize the system was purified to eliminate carbon monoxide and other contaminants. Antibiotic-free cell preparations were dispensed by a method applicable to commercial use. No bacterial, mycoplasmal, or viral contaminants were detected in the cell cultures grown in antibiotic-free medium for 20 months. Consistent reproducibility of cell yields per vessel was obtained. Cryopreserved insect cells were recovered and planted directly into roller bottles, which subsequently were scaled up to large volume production. Electron microscopic studies revealed that some cells were undergoing nuclear membrane invagination and some possessed lobed nuclei. These cells contained typical organelles, including abundant endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, polysomes, few microvilli, and dense bodies. These observations appeared to be normal properties of the continuous line, IPL-21 AE III. 
20170328|Protein changes occurred in callus cells of hypersensitive tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum var. Xanthi-nc) 72 hr after inoculation with tobacco mosaic virus and incubation on a minimal growth medium. Two protein bands, serologically related to viral coat protein, were obtained from extracts of infected cells following electrophoresis on 7% and 10% polyacrylamide gels. An additional, slower migrating protein, perhaps due to virus-induced stimulation of a host protein, also was detected. Although local lesions appeared on callus after 40 hr of incubation, four proteins previously reported in lesion-bearing hypersensitive tobacco leaves were not found. The possible significance of this and the usefulness of a callus-TMV system as a tool to study virus-induced protein changes are discussed.
4292714| A new cell line, designated BCIRL-HA-AM1, derived from ovaries of female pupas of Heliothis armigera (Hbn.) has been established. Both oval and round cells were found in BCIRL-HA-AM1. Chromosomes were typical of lepidoptera (i.e. short condensed rods and spheres; a majority of cells were polyploid). The H. armigera line was distinguished from H. zea and if. virescens cell lines as well as two other noctuid cell lines, Trichoplusia ni (Hbner) and Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith), by use of isoelectric focusing and the enzyme phosphoglucoisomerase. This cell line would not replicate (i.e. produce polyhedral inclusion bodies or show an increase in virus titer) the single-embedded nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of H. zea nor the multiple-embedded NPV of H. armigera or Autographa californica Speyer. 
4292280|Alkaline phosphatase is induced in human choriocarcinoma cells by short-chain fatty acids, especially sodium butyrate. This fatty acid increases the phosphatase activity immediately and in a nearly linear fashion. Only phosphatase with an alkaline pH optimum is induced. Both the induced alkaline phosphatase and the basal enzyme are precipitated by antiserum against term-placental alkaline phosphatase, but the choriocarcinoma phosphatase is less stable to heating than is the term-placental enzyme. The induction of alkaline phosphatase activity requires cellular synthesis of protein, RNA and DNA. The regulation of induction probably occurs at the transcriptional level.
4291756|Responses of cultured fetal rat bones to parathyroid hormone (PTH) were compared in media gassed with
4292556|Primary fetal hepatocytes derived from Zucker rats with expected fa gene frequencies of 0.0 and 0.75 have been established and can be used to detect early effects of the fa gene on hepatocellular metabolism. Paired incubation experiments demonstrate that protein synthesis in 0.75 fa gene cultures is significantly less than in 0.0 fa gene cultures under basal conditions. Insulin stimulates protein synthesis in 0.0 fa gene cultures but has no effect on 0.75 fa gene cultures. Cycloheximide inhibits protein synthesis in both types of culture. NH
20170523|An improved Ham's F12 nutrient medium supplemented with epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin (INS), and transferrin (TF) was developed for continuous proliferation and clonal growth of primary rabbit tracheal epithelial (TE) cells in culture. The addition of small quantities of fetal bovine serum (FBS) (0.01 to 0.1%) to cultures had little measurable stimulation on TE cell growth and plating efficiency. However, serum levels higher than 0.1% inhibited cell growth and also masked the growth stimulating activities of EGF and INS despite an increase in cell attachment. Under this defined, hormonesupplemented medium, and in the presence of a trace amount of serum (0.01%), 10 to 20% of the protease-dissociated TE cells attached to the culture dish followed by at least four population doublings during 7 to 10 d of culture. Clonal growth occurred at a seeding density of 17 cells/cm with a plating efficiency of 6 to 8%. Confluent primary cultures could be passaged two to four times by treatment with a 0.1% trypsin-1 mM EDTA solution and a total of 10 to 30 population doublings of in vitro life span were obtained. The epithelial nature of cultured cells was confirmed by indirect immunofluorescent staining with antikeratin antibody as well as by transmission electron microscopy. This study shows that using this improved hormone-supplemented medium, rabbit TE cells can be maintained in culture for extended periods of time without the aid of a fibroblast feeder layer or explant tissue. This system could be useful for the study of cell differentiation of tracheal epithelium.
4292456|Studies on gap junctions isolated from rat liver by a procedure that avoids exogenous proteolysis (Hertzberg, E. L.; Gilula, N. B.; J. Biol. Chem. 254: 2138-2147; 1979) are described. The original isolation procedure was modified to increase the yield and has been extended to the preparation of gap junctions from mouse and bovine liver. Peptide map studies showed that the 27,000-dalton polypeptides present in liver gap junction preparations from all three sources are homologous and are not derived from other polypeptides of higher molecular weight that are observed in cruder preparations. Similar studies with lens fiber junctions demonstrated no homology between liver and lens junction polypeptides. Antibodies to the lens junction polypeptide did not cross-react with the liver gap junction polypeptide, further supporting this conclusion.
4291940|Cell division is induced in stationary cultures of BALB/c-3T3 mouse embryo cells without renewal of medium by addition of the tumor promoter, phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), or bovine serum. The addition of dbcAMP (
4292179| Islet cells of adult rat pancreas, dissociated with EDTA-Dispase, were cultivated in Microtest wells for over 2 months. In our cultures, islet cells were free-floating and cohered with each other to reorganize histotypic aggregates resembling the nondissociated islets. Morphologically, excellent preservation of islet cells in the aggregates was confirmed during the culture using both light and electron microscopy. The function of islet -cells, as demonstrated by the synthesis and release of insulin, also was retained throughout the culture period. Islet -cells cultured for long periods exhibited better response to the short-term stimulation of theophylline than to a high concentration of glucose, as observed in the islets of fetal or newborn rat pancreas. 
4292130|A comparison of the soluble and cell-wall-bound isoperoxidases of normal auxin-requiring and auxin-independent (habituated) tobacco callus revealed that normal tissues contained a higher level of isoperoxidases. There were also qualitative differences in these isoperoxidases. Partially purified soluble and ionically bound isoperoxidases of normal callus likewise exhibited higher auxin-oxidase activities. Normal tissues also were found to contain higher levels of auxin-oxidase inhibitors (auxin protectors). Overall, however, the data indicate that there is a higher rate of auxin destruction in normal tobacco callus than in habituated tissue. This presumably leads to insufficient endogenous auxin for growth.
20170465|Methionine dependence is a defect found in many cancer cell lines that inhibits their growth in culture when methionine is replaced by its immediate precursor, homocysteine, in the culture medium. Normal cultured cells do not have this defect. This report lists the diverse and large number of animal and human cancer lines that are methioninedependent, and critically reviews the cell biology and methionine biochemistry of the phenomenon.
4292186|A substance that stimulates growth of colonies of mononuclear granulocytic cells derived from the bone marrow of mice was produced by incubating fetal liver cells (conditioned medium). This substance appears to have the same properties described elsewhere as colony-stimulating factor (CSF). The enhanced stimulatory ability of the conditioned medium from human fetal liver cells compared to medium not conditioned suggests that fetal liver is a potent source of colony-stimulating factor.
4292666|Intact whole lungs from 14 d rat fetuses were explanted to organ culture and maintained fully submerged in medium or positioned at the gas-fluid interface. Striking differences were observed in the morphological development of submersion cultured and interface cultured explants after 7 d in vitro. Submersion cultured lung developed as an expanded hollow organ, whereas the tissue of interface cultures was glandular in appearance and attenuated against the culture substrate. This difference in the development of the cultured lung may be attributed to the influence of surface tension forces at the gas-fluid interface versus the fluid immersed environment. In submersion culture the fetal lung followed a unique pattern of morphogenetic development. Under these culture conditions the lung expanded in three dimensions and retained its discrete lobar structure. The primitive bronchial epithelial tree of the fetal lung at explantation exhibited substantial histoarchitectural changes in vitro. Progessive branching of the epithelium into the surrounding lung mesenchyme gave rise to a pulmonary parenchyma bearing characteristics of the presumptive alveolar region of the late gestation fetal lung. The epithelium consisted predominantly of large, glycogen rich cuboidal cells interspersed with numerous structurally differentiated type II cells, containing lamellar bodies. The pulmonary parenchyma of the submersion cultured explant occupied a narrow margin of the lung wall, surrounding a large central lumen. This unique form of the cultured lung made it possible to examine the pulmonary epithelium by scanning electron microscopy. Data from the present study suggest that submersion culture of the intact fetal lung may provide a useful model system for study of the maturation of epithelial cell surface features during pulmonary development.
4291660|Comparative studies of the aggregative behavior of cells dissociated from different areas of embryonic chick and mouse brains show that each of the regionally differentiated lobes (cerebrum, optic tectum, and cerebellum), and the stem areas (diencephalon and medulla), form characteristic aggregates distinctive in size and shape. Bispecific co-aggregates are produced by commingling dissociated mouse cerebrum cells with chick cells from various brain regions, or from non-nervous tissues; the size of these co-aggregates and the extent of internal sorting out of cell types is closely related to the degree of homology between the interacting cell populations, e.g. co-aggregates of the closely homologous mouse and chick cerebral cell types contain homogeneous tissue fabrics of intermingled mouse and chick cells. Cell surface constituents involved in selective recognition and association of nerve cells were sought and cell-free supernatant preparations were obtained from short-term monolayer cultures of embryonic cerebrum cells (of either mouse or chick origin) which caused a striking, specific enhancement of aggregation of homologous cerebrum cells. These materials had no such effect on heterologous tissues tested: optic tectum, cerebellum, medulla, neural retina, liver, kidney or limb bud. These findings are discussed in relation to control mechanisms governing normal brain histogenesis and to the specificity of neural associations.
4292291|An erroneous measurement of DNase-resistant adsorption of donor DNA by plant cell protoplasts may result from the use of polycations and metal cations. A DNase-resistant complex is formed independent of protoplasts as well as during adsorption to either intact or broken protoplasts. Analysis of adsorbed DNA by cesium chloride density-gradient centrifugation showed extensive degradation of donor DNA.
4292211|At the present time, growth in agar suspension is one of the best in vitro correlates of tumorigenicity. Growth in agarose, however, has not been evaluated extensively as an in vitro criterion for tumorigenicity. In the present study we have tested 19 cell lines, including six mouse-human hybrids, for growth in agarose and agar in the presence and absence of exogenous hypoxanthine. None of the six nontumorigenic cell lines grew in agar or agarose. Ten of the 13 tumorigenic cell lines grew in both agar and agarose with about equal efficiency. The remaining three tumorigenic cell lines grew well in agarose but poorly or not at all in agar. Hypoxanthine did not stimulate the growth in agar or agarose of any of the cell lines except BHK. We conclude that growth in agarose may be a more sensitive marker for tumorigenicity than growth in agar and that BHK is exceptional in its sensitivity to supplemental purines.
4292829|Mucus-producing cells were isolated from swine trachea mucosa by a method that included enzymatic digestion of the epithelial surface with Dispase, a neutral protease from Bacillus polymyxa, and differential attachment of the washed cells to culture flasks coated with collagen. Epithelial cells were the major cell type isolated by these procedures. Ciliated cells that did not attach to the flasks were removed by decantation, and fibroblasts were destroyed by the bacterial protease. The isolated cells synthesized respiratory mucins and the rate of secretion was increased about threefold when tracheas were exposed to sulfur dioxide. The cultured cells incorporated both
4292341| A one-step vital stain is described for the macroscopic visualization of histotypic cell aggregates in fetal rat lung organotypic cultures. Organotypic cultures are incubated in 0.05-0.1% 2,3,5'-triphenyl tetrazolium chloride(TTC) in culture medium (37 C). Living cells reduce the tetrazole to a water-insoluble red colored formazan. Cell aggregates appear as densely stained foci against the lighter background of the Gelfoam substrate. Stained cultures may be scanned macroscopically to determine the degree of reaggregation and assess cell viability. Identification of aggregates by TTC staining improves the efficiency of tissue processing for electron microscopy and does not alter the ultrastructural appearance of the cultured cells. 
4292422|Seeds of Daucus carota "Danvers" were treated with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) for 6-hr periods at concentrations of 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0% to induce plastid mutants. In these treatments, there was a gradual decrease in percent germination from control up to 1.0% EMS and no germinations at 3.0%. The number of chlorophyll mutants increased with dose of mutagen. One mutant plant was isolated from the 0.1% treatment and it had leaf sections of green, white layered on green and pure white; and white and green striped petioles. Histogenic analysis of this mutant showed it to be a GGW chimera, the "all-white" sectors being GWW, arising from displacement of L-II by L-III. Electron micrographs of the white sections showed plastids that had dilated thylakoids typical of PS-I mutants. So called "mixed cells" of normal and mutant plastids were found, suggesting a plastome mutation. Leaf and petiole sections have been successfully cultured through the development of callus, and both green and white plants have been regenerated. Regenerated white plantlets were insensitive to 10 mM methyl viologen (paraquat), whereas green tissues were killed by the herbicide.
20170453|A method is described for the isolation of milligram quantities of viable, hormone-responsive xanthophores from goldfish scales. The preparations are typically 70 to 90% pure and are useful for biochemical analyses or for establishing primary cultures.
4292583|Thin layer chromatography of
4291641|Pancreatic ribonuclease (RNase) and
4291673|Exponentially growing HeLa cells have been separated according to their cell cycle age by sedimenting at unit gravity for 3 hr on a phosphate-buffered sucrose density gradient. Measurements of cell size, cell number, DNA content, and tritiated thymidine incorporation in consecutive portions of the gradient showed that cells in upper fractions were in G
4291879|HeLa cells have been grown at different rates in steady-state continuous and semi-continuous culture. Slowly growing cells contain more protein and less RNA than rapidly growing cells, but appear to synthesize protein by less efficient use of the available RNA. The rate of RNA accumulation increases rapidly with increasing growth rate and rapidly growing cells contain more ribosomal subunits, and more and larger polysomes, but have fewer monoribosomes than slowly growing cells.
4292700|A new cloned tissue culture cell line, HRRT, has been established from a hereditary renal rat tumor. Electron microscopic studies indicate that the cells are fibroblasts. The cell line has been maintained in monolayer cultures for more than 3 yr and multiplies with a population doubling time of 21 h. The HRRT cells were found to have a plating efficiency of 50% and were not able to grow at low serum concentrations; they did not multiply in suspension culture and were unable to form colonies in soft agar or to proliferate in the aggregate form. The HRRT cells did not form tumors in nude mice. The new cell line was adapted to grow in serum-free medium by decreasing the serum concentration gradually over a period of several months and by addition of sodium pyruvate, insulin, alanine, serine, ribose, thymidine, and uridine to the medium. In serum-free medium HRRT cells multiplied with a population doubling time of 42 h and were not able to form colonies in soft agar.
20170466|Human foreskin fibroblasts transformed by representative chemicals from five different classes of chemical carcinogens, some requiring enzymatic activation and direct acting carcinogens, produced cell populations that exhibited anchorage-independent growth and expression of neoplastic potential in either nude mice or chick-embryonic skin (CES). There is a high degree of correlation between tumor incidence and invasiveness of CES. The unique feature of CES is the rapidity of expression of cellular neoplasia and interpretation of the simulated tumor in 4 d as a simulated fibrosarcoma. This method represents a system that can be used to evaluate human carcinogens in vitro in 6 to 10 wk.
4291830|Human fibrin foam as a matrix for three-dimensional organ cultures was successfully employed for the cultivation of newborn rat and hamster colon tissue. Colonic tissue was maintained under different oxygen atmospheres and with various synthetic media. Explants of rat and hamster colon, maintained in Leibovitz's L-15 medium buffered with HEPES in the presence of 5% CO
20170336| Five different mouse mammary tumor cell lines were propagated in a serum free medium. Evaluation of growth characteristics, including logarithmic growth, cell population increase, protein production and days to confluency, showed serum-free medium comparable to serum-containing medium. Mouse mammary tumor virus expression and production, in CH and GR tumor cell lines, as determined by virus particle counting and RNA dependent DNA polymerase assays, subsequent to dexamethasone stimulation revealed equivalent to higher levels of virus in serum-free medium as compared to serum-containing medium. 
4292417|Interlobular and intralobular ducts isolated from the pancreas of the rat by digestion with collagenase and chymotrypsin were cultured in an agarose matrix containing CMRL-1066 supplemented with insulin, dexamethasone, L-glutamine, soybean trypsin inhibitor, antibiotics, and fetal bovine serum. The cut ends of most interlobular ducts sealed to create enclosed lumina. Some ducts retained their original cylindrical organization; others enlarged to varying degrees, resulting in structures that ranged from cylindrical to spherical in shape. The duct walls consisted of viable epithelium and connective tissue, although the amount of connective tissue declined with age. Both epithelial and connective tissue cells became flattened in the enlarged ducts. Intralobular and small interlobular ducts often remained associated with the larger interlobular ducts. These duct fragments have been cultured for as long as 6 weeks.
20170431| Mouse neuroblastoma cells (Clone NIE-115) were grown in serum-free (defined) medium, defined medium supplemented with serum, and control medium to determine whether serum-free medium could substitute for serum-containing medium in our studies of the histamine H and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors of these cells. The function of these receptors as determined by measurement of receptor-mediated cyclic [H]GMP formation was absent in cells grown in serum-free medium and increased as the percentage of serum was increased in the defined medium, but never attained the levels found with control cells. Muscarinic receptor number for cells grown in defined medium was 60% above that found for control cells with no change in the affinity of the receptor for the radioligand (-)[H]quinuclidinyl benzilate. Guanylate cyclase and acetylcholinesterase activities for cells grown in defined medium were 23 and 66% of those found in control cells, respectively. This marked reduction of guanylate cyclase activity in large part explains the lack of function of these receptors. 
20170387|A direct comparison has been made between normal parenchymal cells cultured from rat liver and malignant cells from both a rat liver tumor and a spontaneously transformed line derived from the parent rat culture. In all nondividing cells there was a 3- to 5-fold increase in the population of surface microvilli on the malignant cells compared to the normal cells. Notable variations in overall morphology were also observed when cells were incubated in arginine-deficient medium.
20170376| In a previous report, we described the selection and partial characterization of three methotrexate (Mtx)-resistant Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO) (1). Class I cells contained an apparent structural alteration in dihydrofolate reductase. Class II cells had an alteration affecting the permeability of the drug. Class III cells, selected from Class I cells, had an increased activity of the altered enzyme. In the work described here, it has been shown that the spontaneous mutation rate to Class I resistance is in the order of 2  10 mutations per locus per generation and that in single-step mutagenized selections the number of resistant colonies of Classes I and II are about equal. Class I and Class III resistance is expressed codominantly in somatic cell hybrids, whereas the Class II resistant marker is a recessive trait. 
4292426|Normal rat kidney cells infected with a cold-sensitive mutant of mouse sarcoma virus [NRK(MSV-1b)] morphologically transform when exposed to adenosine 3':5' cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) at the restrictive temperature. The cAMP-induced morphological changes occur rapidly and are reversible. Agents capable of elevating endogenous levels of cAMP [prostaglandin E
4291784|The characteristics of normal mammary epithelial and 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced adenocarcinoma cells derived from rats and grown in monolayer culture were compared. Normal mammary epithelial cells exhibited different morphology and agglutinability by plant lectins, slower growth rate, and lower saturation density and cloning efficiency. In addition, the normal cells were sensitive to the toxic effect of DMBA, and were unable to grow in soft agar or to form tumors when inoculated into newborn Sprague-Dawley rats. The converse was true in each case for the adenocarcinoma cells.
4292375|When photolyzed in situ for as little as 15 s 2-azido-9-fluorenone oxime causes Type II and Type III transformation in C3H 10T 1/2 CL8 cells. In the yeast strain Saccharomyces cerevisiae D-7, simple reversions and gene conversions occurred and also mitotic crossing over, to a lesser extent, but no mitochondrial "petite" mutants occurred. No mutations or transformations were induced in the dark or by the light itself.
20170501|A model experimental culture system and protocol are described to screen polymerized dental materials for diffusible toxic products. The system employs cultures of human gingival fibroblasts grown in plates containing immobilized samples of polymerized resins. Comparative cytotoxicity is evaluated by counting viable cells with the aid of phase optics at several time periods up to 48 h. To achieve adequate statistical sampling, multiple counts are made in four different zones at 90 angles from each sample and at three distances from the centers of samples. The most significant data were generated during a 24 to 48 h test period in culture. This cytotoxicity test measured cell death as a function of time of exposure and distance from the sample (24 h, 0 to 3 mm; 48 h, 3 to 6 mm) and permitted a calculation of the relative cytotoxicity for each material, which is termed the viability index (VI). This can be expressed as a percentage related to the control, which is called the time-distance cytotoxicity index (TDCI). This method is simple to carry out because it uses basic laboratory equipment, is rapid, and has a sound scientific basis. It focuses on times and distances when or where, or both, the greatest cellular changes are taking place. Some data illustrated are based on the screening of eight different restorative resins. The literature of cell culture testing of dental materials is reviewed. It is concluded that biotoxicity studies ideally should employ diploid human target cells from the oral cavity because the cells retain specialized features. Secondary cultures or strains of human diploid gingival fibroblasts, which are relatively easy to obtain and maintain, are recommended as cells of choice for screening dental restorative materials in vitro.
20170530| The sulfonic acid dye, phenolsulfonphthalein (PSP or phenol red), has been incorporated as a pH indicator in many tissue culture media formulations since the emergence of tissue culture methodologies. The present study was designed to examine the pathway, time course, and degree of metabolism of this anionic dye in monolayer cultures of adult rat hepatocytes. Thin layer chromatographic studies coupled with -glucuronidase studies show that glucuronidation is the major metabolic pathway for PSP in vitro. About 20% of the dye is metabolized in the first 24 h, but this functional activity is decreased by approximately half at 48 h, and even further at 72 h of culture. This metabolic activity was not affected by continuous exposure to the dye. The effect of PSP concentration on its rate of metabolism by the adult rat hepatocyte in culture seemed to be biphasic, and at concentrations of less than 100 M there was indication of a saturable process. Although PSP seemed not to be toxic to hepatocyte cultures, it is partially metabolized by these cells (as opposed to no observed metabolism in human fibroblasts or HeLa cells). Therefore, its incorporation into tissue culture media formulations for use in hepatocyte cultures should be avoided, especially when studying the mechanism(s) of glucuronidation or metabolic pathways thought to be affected by this anionic dye. 
4292784|Iron-free RITC 80-7 defined medium was used to examine effects of ferrous iron and transferrin on cell proliferation of human diploid fibroblasts. Both ferrous iron and holotransferrin stimulated cell proliferation in the medium, but apotransferrin did not. When 5 g/l human serum albumin (HSA) was added to the defined medium, excellent growth was obtained under hypoxic conditions, whereas a reduction of cellular growth during the culture periods was observed under aerobic conditions. When ferrous iron was added to the HSA medium alone, the reduction in growth increased in proportion to the concentrations, whereas the addition of transferrin prevented this reduction in a concentration-dependent manner. This suggests that the ferrous iron concentration in media causes a reduction in growth under aerobic conditions and transferrin prevents this reduction because it decreases the ferrous iron concentration. Further, serum albumin seems to be a source of iron in media.
4291702|A substitute for the serum enrichments usually added to commercial, chemically defined tissue culture media was prepared. This serum substitute (SSK) was an aqueous solution, in triple-distilled water, of 10% peptone, 1% dextrose, 5% lactalbumin hydrolysate, and 3.5% polyvinylpyrrolidone K90. The clear solution was sterilized in the autoclave at 10 psi for 20 min. and then used as 10% of the total medium, with insulin-supplemented (0.01 mg per ml) Eagle's minimal essential medium for the mouse cells or RPMI-1640 for human cells. Both human and mouse mammary tumor cell lines have shown a net increase of the original seed 7 days after transfer in the SSK medium. Continuous growth in this medium was demonstrated by several subcultures over several months of cultivation. Human or mouse cell lines derived from normal donors were comparatively tested in the same medium but did not survive.
4292087| Rat and tupaia 41 C temperature variant cell clones were derived from parental embryonic cells, cloned and established in tissue cultures. Both variant cell clones grew permanently at 41 C. The morphology of these cell clones was altered in comparison to the original fibroblast cell clones. The cell biological characterization of the rat and tupaia 41 C temperature variant cell clones showed that both cell clones were stable. After abolishing the selection pressure (incubation at 41 C) for more than 10 further cell passages by incubation at 37 C and then raising the temperature again to 41 C, neither of the cell clones lost their newly acquired property of growing at 41 C. This fact demonstrates that the newly acquired property is certain to be genetically manifest in both cell clones. The modal number of chromosomes of the rat 41 C temperature variant cell clone was increased, and in the case of the tupaia variant cell clone, bimodality was observed. The plating efficiency of both cell clones did not rise significantly in comparison to the parental cells. Neither of the 41 C temperature variant cell clones grew in semi-solid medium. 
4291887|This investigation employed a viral screening method to detect endogenous bovine virus contaminants in commercially supplied fetal bovine serum. Fifty-one lots of fetal bovine serum from 14 suppliers were examined. Over 30% of the lots tested were found to contain bovine viruses; they included bovine virus diarrhea virus, parainfluenza type 3-like virus, bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine enterovirus type 4, and an unidentified cytopathogenic agent. Of the 51 lots, 20 had been pretested by the suppliers and were considered to be free of known viral contaminants. Our viral screening methods revealed that five of these pretested lots, or 25%, contained endogenous bovine viruses.
4291747| Adrenal cortical cells obtained from adult rats were propagated as monolayers in vitro for up to 6 weeks. Depending on the culture regime, these cells could be maintained consistently in two distinct states of differentiation. Cells that were subcultured by tryptic dissociation and grown in 25% fetal calf serum assumed a fibroblast-like morphology but differed from fibroblasts of connective tissue origin in histochemistry, steroid metabolism, response to adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), and life-span. A limited expression of adrenocortical function was suggested by the presence of lipid, of 5-3-hydroxysteroid and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenases, the production of small amounts of corticosteroids, and the ability to respond to ACTH. If cells were subcultured by mechanical dissociation from confluent primary adrenal cultures and grown in media containing 10% horse serum, they assumed an epithelial morphology resembling adrenal cortical parenchyma. Their more intense reaction for lipid and dehydrogenases, higher rate of steroid metabolism, and synthesis of the tissue-specific hormone, corticosterone, indicated a degree of differentiation not attained by the adrenal cells in the fibroblast-like form. It would appear that the adrenal cortical phenotype is expressed more completely in monolayer cultures under conditions where cell to cell contact and the integrity of cell surfaces are maximally maintained. 
4291607|Membrana granulosa cells were aspirated from large follicles of proestrous rat ovaries and were cultivated as monolayers. For histochemical identification of dehydrogenases, the monolayers were incubated in various steroid substrates, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, and Nitro Blue Tetrazolium. The presence of
20170274| Sodium butyrate produces reversible changes in morphology, growth rate, and enzyme activities of several mammalian cell types in culture. Some of these changes are similar to those produced by agents which increase the intracellular level of adenosine 3,5-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) or by analogs of cAMP. Sodium butyrate increases the intracellular level of cAMP by about two fold in neuroblastoma cells; therefore, some of the effects of sodium butyrate on these cells may in part be mediated by cAMP. Sodium butyrate appears to have properties of a good chemotherapeutic agent for neuroblastoma tumors because the treatment of neuroblastoma cells in culture causes cell death and "differentiation"; however, it is either innocuous or produces reversible morphological and biochemical alterations in other cell types. 
4292241|In poeciliid fish, melanoma of different degrees of malignancy can be produced by crossing specific genotypes. For a detailed investigation of the processes leading to proliferation or differentiation of the melanoma cells, it is necessary to establish cell cultures. The aim of the present study was to find out the optimal conditions for initiating and culturing poeciliid fish cells for the purpose of establishing cell cultures of melanoma. The optimal method was developed by using small pieces of late embryos as starting material and includes: (a) dispersion of tissue by mild stepwise treatment with a trypsin-EDTA mixture at low temperature; (b) culture of cells in the complex medium 199; (c) supplementation of medium with high percentage (20%) of fetal bovine serum; and (d) stabilization of pH by buffering the medium with HEPES. Under these conditions, primary and secondary cultures of embryonic cells have been initiated. An epithelial-like cell line has been subcultured for more than 80 passages. The method developed for embryonic tissues was used to start cell cultures from melanoma of platyfish-swordtail hybrids. Until now, only cells of rapidly growing malignant albino melanoma could be maintained in primary cultures. Secondary cultures could not be initiated since the melanoma cells tended to differentiate and stopped growing before a confluent monolayer was formed.
20170399|Cultured fibroblasts derived from normal subjects and juvenile diabetics attach in the absence of serum to plastic culture dishes and secrete macromolecules, including collagenous components, hyaluronic acid, and proteoglycans into the medium and onto the plastic surface where they form a microexudate carpet. Most diabetic fibroblasts examined did not spread as well as normal cells during a 4-hr interval after the initial attachment. There were no significant differences between normal and diabetic cells with respect to proline and lysine incorporation and lysine hydroxylation. The percentage glycosylation of hydroxylysine was marginally higher in the media proteins of diabetic cells, but glycosylation in both normal and diabetic cells was elevated over that typically observed in human skin collagen. Collagenous components were estimated to constitute approximately 15-20% of the microexudate carpet fraction in both normal and diabetic cell strains. Diabetic fibroblasts exhibited a marginally lower ratio of heparan sulfate to chondroitin sulfate in the cell surface to matrix microexudate carpet fraction (trypsinate) than did normal fibroblasts. The hyaluronate and chondroitin sulfate contents of this fraction of diabetic cells were not significantly different from those of normal cells.
4291926|Monolayer cultures of fetal human fibroblasts, preincubated in serum-free culture medium overnight (about 18 hr), were incubated with insulin (0.1 to 100 mU per ml), then washed and incubated in an insulin-free medium. The effect of insulin on glucose utilization, uridine incorporation into RNA and leucine incorporation into protein was maintained after removal of insulin and washing. For both glucose utilization and uridine incorporation into RNA, this effect was demonstrated at physiologic levels of insulin (0.1 mU per ml). When anti-insulin serum was added to the cultures after the cell preincubated with insulin were washed, this effect was greatly attenuated. This lasting effect of insulin was probably not due to nonspecifically bound insulin becoming available to the cells. Binding of
4291647|A short, simple test involving interferon-mediated protection of cells in vitro from cytopathogenic effects produced by vesicular stomatitis virus or Sindbis virus has been developed to help in determining the genus of origin of cells. By using the observed pattern of protection of five cell types by five interferons, cells could be grouped as of primate, rabbit, rat, and mouse origins. The primate grouping resulted from bilateral cross-reactions between the human and monkey systems. An unexpected observation was that African green monkey interferon preparations protect both monkey and rat cells, but not the converse. Chromosomal analysis of the cell cultures confirmed the genus determined by the interferon test.
4292786|When HeLa cells are detached from their support by trypsin, trypsin-EDTA, or by mechanical means large zeiotic blebs are formed. After reseeding the cells onto glass these blebs shrink. Those blebs near the support collapse completely to form lobes in the neighborhood of lobopodia. By scanning and transmission electron microscopy we could show the transformation of these zeiotic blebs into true lobopodia. This implies a repair of cell surface structures and components as well as of the subcortical cytoskeleton.
4291724|An improved chemically defined, serum-free medium for the cultivation of a variety of continuous cell lines has been developed. Eight lines of human origin, three lines of nonhuman primate origin, and five lines of rodent origin have been cultured serially for as long as a year in the medium. Growth rates of several serial lines resulted in as much as 20- to 30-fold increases per week. Hormones such as insulin, cortisol, and thyroxine significantly improved growth of cultures in the defined medium. Vitamin B
20170521|Subcultures of smooth muscle cells derived from rat thoracic aorta were grown on plane plastic substrata and on plastic substrata having ridges molded in them by a heated, ruled template. The cells were found to have a very high degree of contact guidance when distributed sparsely on the ridged substrata. When the cell density increased multilayered, elongated colonies formed. On plane substrata these were irregular, curved, and disposed in all directions. On the ridged substrata, however, the colonies were straight, evenly spaced, and positioned at right angles to the ridges.
4292586|A procedure is described that compares the isotope dilution method of measuring picomolar amounts of amino acids obtained from cellular extracts with a direct method of analysis. Evidence is provided that shows that the direct method is at least as accurate as the isotope dilution method. In addition the direct method is as expedient and requires but a single isotope and fewer chromatograms for analysis. A procedure also is described for selecting the appropriate conditions for dansylation and for measuring the loss of dansyl amino acid due to decomposition.
4292660|Thirty-one compounds have been identified that act as cryoprotective agents for cultured mammalian cells. Eight compounds were comparable to dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) in cryoprotective effectiveness. Many of the cryoprotective compounds studied also (a) promote cell fusion and (b) induce cell differentiation in erythroleukemia and other cell systems. Thus, previously unrecognized effects on the differentiated state of cells may occur when cells are treated with cryoprotective agents.
4291897|This report describes the culture of Su/Su, Su/su and su/su tissue in vitro. High levels of auxin and low levels of cytokinin increase growth of the cells. The cells do not need exogenous amino acids for rapid growth and the chlorophyll deficiency cannot be overcome by amino acids. Reduced levels of auxin and sucrose enhance differentiation, whereas cysteine in the autoclaved medium inhibits differentiation. The Su chlorophyll mutant of tobacco provides a marker for in vitro studies on photosynthesis and photorespiration, chloroplast genetics and cell fusion techniques.
4292225|Oxygen uptake was measured in primary cultures of astrocytes from the brain hemispheres of newborn DBA mice by the aid of an oxygen electrode inserted directly into the culture flask, i.e. using the flask, completely filled with MEM medium, as the respirometer chamber. The respiration was initially intense (
20170365| Several cell culture factors were found to influence in vitro expression of mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) in the mouse adenocarcinoma cell line Mm5mt/c. Cells were propagated in a variety of commercially available cell culture media to which dexamethasone (DXM) was added as a stimulator of MMTV production. Culture seeding density, culture medium type, and glucose concentration each influenced MMTV production when expressed on a per cell basis. Maximum cell growth occurred in cultures grown in RPMI-1640 medium containing insulin. Those media which provided good cell growth were not necessarily optimal for virus expression. Addition of insulin did not stimulate MMTV synthesis although dexamethasone alone was stimulatory in all media used; however, maximum MMTV expression was obtained when dexamethasone and insulin were used in concert. Equivalent levels of MMTV-specific cell membrane antigen, MMTV-specific protein, and virus particles were produced at incubation temperatures of 32, 34 or 37 C; however, higher levels of virus-related RNA-dependent DNA polymerase (RDDP) activity were recovered from cultures incubated at 32 and 34 C than at 37 C. Decreased levels of RDDP were attributed to enzyme thermolability at 37 C incubation. 
4292172|Follicles were classified on the basis of the number of layers of follicle cells, the presence and degree of development of the zona pellucida, and the presence of an antrum. Formation of an antrum in follicles with less than 7 to 8 cell layers and/or presence of necrotic cells was considered indicative of degeneration. When classified in this manner, the data suggest that follicles and their contained oocytes are committed to either normal development or atresia by the time a third layer of granulosa cells is formed.
4292423|A reliable, simple method for the separation of four cellular isozymes utilizing cellulose-acetate electrophoresis is described. Cell extracts of 16 cell lines were examined previously, utilizing starch gel electrophoretic techniques. These same cell extracts were retested for their isozyme phenotype using the cellulose-acetate electrophoretic system. These data indicate that the results of the two electrophoretic systems are comparable. Isozyme analyses of freshly prepared cell extracts of the Aedes albopictus (ATC-15) and Spodoptera frugiperda (IPLB-SF-21AE) cell lines resulted in identical isozyme mobilities when compared with their respective stored counterparts. Since the cellulose-acetate electrophoretic system was able to separate cellular isozymes into characteristic patterns, distinctions between cell lines were made. The application of this technique for identification and characterization of invertebrate cell lines is discussed.
20170281|The utilization of [H]-5-uridine by CP-1268 cells was studied. Uridine was rapidly transported into these cells by a concentration dependent, saturable process. Exogenous uridine rapidly equilibrated with cellular nucleotide pools and virtually all of the uridine transported into the cells was phosphorylated. Uridine incorporation into RNA was studied by continuous and pulse-labeling techniques in the presence or absence of actinomycin D and cordycepin. These studies have shown that the pattern of unstable RNA precursor and relatively stable RNA product relationship known to exist in mammalian cells similarly exists in insect cells in vitro. This pattern varied markedly with pulse-labeling time and required the addition of RNA inhibitors to block reincorporation of intracellular labeled metabolites during the chase.
20170527| The first continuous coleopteran cell line, designated DSIR-HA-1179, was derived from the scarab beetle Heteronychus arator. Most cells are spindle-shaped, 25 to 40 m long and 15 to 20 m wide, adhere strongly to plastic surfaces, and are highly resistant to trypsin and collagenase treatment. The population doubling time of 6 d, at 27 C, is slow compared with most dipteran and lepidopteran cell lines. The cells cross-react in comparative radioimmunoassays with H. arator larval tissue but not other insect cell lines and support the replication of Oryctes baculovirus and at least two nodaviruses, black beetle virus, and Flock House virus. 
20170353|Cell cultures were established from the biopsies of lung, skin and kidney from each of nine human fetuses, and chromosome analyses were performed on material through the fifth subculture. Kidney cell cultures generally showed a higher level of polyploidy than lung or skin. The frequencies of hyperdiploid cells and those with structural abnormalities were consistent with the low levels found in cultures of human lymphocytes. The data provide a normal cytogenetic baseline for human fetal material which may be useful in a variety of studies.
20170534|Overgrowth with fibroblasts has been a major problem in the cultivation of normal human skin epithelium. In the present study it is shown that the addition of spermine to the culture medium in micromolar concentrations has a differential cytotoxic effect on fibroblasts allowing the cultivation of human skin epithelial cells in primary culture without fibroblastic overgrowth. Putrescine, another polyamine, is shown to be equally cytotoxic to fibroblasts and epithelial cells when added in millimolar concentrations; below this concentration range no cytotoxic effect could be demonstrated. This difference in cytotoxicity between spermine and putrescine is suggested to depend on the conversion of spermine, but not putrescine, and to highly cytotoxic products by an amine oxidase present in fetal bovine serum.
4292343|To characterize the biological functions of cultured hamster tracheal cells, a microassay has been developed utilizing [
4291922|We have developed a simple technique for the investigation of cellular metabolism and growth in cultured human fibroblasts which facilitates experiments using up to 3  10
20170352|When added to Eagle's Minimum Essential Medium supplemented with 10% bovine serum (MEM-10BS), 1mM cysteine was highly toxic to cultured cells. This toxicity was eliminated by (a) preincubation of the medium at 37C for 24 hr before use, or (b) presence of 5mM pyruvate. Similar results were obtained with freshly prepared CMRL 1066 supplemented with 10% bovine serum (CMRL-10BS), which contains 1.5 mM cysteine as an original ingredient. Medium L 15 supplemented with 10% bovine serum (L-10BS), which contains both 1 mM cysteine and 5 mM pyruvate, supported cell growth. On incubation of MEM-10BS supplemented with 1 mM cysteine (MEM-10BS-1CySH) or CMRL-10BS without cells for one day, the cysteine concentrations decreased to about one-tenth or less of the original concentrations. The cysteine concentration in L-10BS did not decrease so much on similar incubation. Pyruvate reduced the rate of disappearance of the cysteine in MEM-10BS-1CySH or CMRL-10BS as assayed with p-chloromercuribenzoate, although less than that in L-10BS. This effect of pyruvate was concentration dependent. These paradoxical effects of pyruvate on cysteine, i.e. the reduction of its cytotoxicity and the stabilization as an SH compound, are probably due to the formation of a dissociable complex between these two compounds, which is not cytotoxic and resistant to oxidation.
4291886|Two cell lines were derived from primary cultures of embryonic tissue of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta (L.). The cell lines were maintained on hemolymph-free synthetic insect medium. Cytogenetic and immunological identification of the lines were carried out. Techniques for obtaining the line and medium, subculturing and freezing procedures for long-term storage, and the morphological and growth characteristics are described.
4292913|Reproducible subculture of adult human prostatic epithelial cells from normal, benign hyperplastic and malignant tissue has been achieved. Cholera toxin is the key component in the culture system, but use of an optimal basal medium (PFMR-4) supplemented with a high level of serum in collagen-coated dishes also improves growth and serial propagation.
4291625|Pancreatic explants from rat fetuses of 20 days were grown in organ culture at the air-liquid interface of a cock serum-chick embryo extract medium. At 48-hr intervals through 10 days of incubation, cultures were fixed and prepared for light microscopic study. The tissue components comprising the explants were quantitated by the linear scan method. Scans were made at regular intervals throughout the tissue block, and the mass and volume percentages of each tissue component were calculated. Prior to culture, acinar tissue comprised 64% of the pancreas while islet tissue contributed less than 2%. During culture, there was a progressive increase in the percentage volume of both islet and duct epithelial tissues. Islet tissue reached a maximum of 11% of explant volume by 6 days of incubation, and duct epithelium 40% by 10 days. In contrast, there was a progressive loss of acinar tissue throughout incubation. By 6 days of culture, explants were devoid of acinar cells. The observations support the thesis that our culture conditions (a) promote the proliferation of duct epithelial cells and (b) are conducive to a selective differentiation and growth of islet cells but (c) are unfavorable for the maintenance or further differentiation of pancreatic acinar cells.
4292811| The frequency of sister chromatid exchange (SCE) was determined in a nontransformed diploid rat cell line, FR3T3, under several tissue culture variables such as cultivation temperature, growth conditions of cells, and concentrations of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU). The conclusions to be drawn from these experiments are: (a) The cell growth and mechanism(s) of SCE formation in FR3T3 cells are largely temperature independent (or efficiently regulated) in the range between 33 and 40.5 C. (b) The concentration limits for BrdU incorporation are 5 to 100 M; baseline frequency is about 11 SCE/metaphase (constant up to 20 M BrdU) and increases only moderately at higher BrdU concentrations. (c) Toxic levels of BrdU (150 M) cause a decrease of SCE rates below that found at 100 M, presumably due to selective cell death. (d) Keeping cells growth arrested over a long period causes substantial SCE induction after replating. (e) Induced increase of SCEs probably occurs in this manner during the first cell cycle after release from growth arrest. It is no longer detectable after the fourth consecutive cell division. 
20170426| -Fetoprotein (AFP), albumin, and transferrin production by two rat hepatoma cell lines, McA-RH 7777 (7777) and McA-RH 8994 (8994), was determined after treatment with hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA, 2 to 6 mM). Radioimmunoassays were used to determine the levels of both secreted and intracellular AFP, albumin, and transferrin. Line 7777 normally produces large quantities of AFP and small quantities of albumin, thus resembling the less differentiated fetal liver with respect to the synthesis of these two proteins. Line 8994 normally produces small quantities of AFP and relatively larger amounts of albumin, thus resembling hepatic functions characteristic of a more differentiated state. After treatment with HMBA for a period of 28 to 96 h a threefold increase in AFP secretion by 7777 and a dose related increase in AFP, albumin, and transferrin secretion by 8994 were observed. In contrast, the secretion of albumin and transferrin in 7777 was inhibited by 60 and 40%, respectively, following treatment with HMBA. The intracellular concentrations of AFP in 7777 and AFP, albumin, and transferrin in 8994 were increased by treatment with HMBA indicating that HMBA is able to stimulate the synthesis of these proteins. The intracellular concentration of AFP, albumin, and transferrin in 7777, when expressed as a percentage of the extracellular concentration of these proteins, did not change significantly during HMBA treatment, indicating that the observed decrease in secreted albumin and transferrin by 7777 is due to decreased synthesis. Similarly, in Line 8994, when the intracellular concentration of the three proteins was expressed as percentage of the extracellular concentration, the only significant change observed was an increase in AFP after 72 h of HMBA (5 mM) treatment. The observed changes in the synthesis of AFP, albumin, and transferrin in both 7777 and 8994 after HMBA treatment were reversible, as judged by the return to control values upon removal of HMBA from the culture medium. Thus, HMBA stimulates synthesis of the oncofetal protein AFP, a result that appears to be independent of the stage of differentiation of the cell. However, its effect on the synthesis of albumin and transferrin are opposite in the two cell lines, suggesting that the regulation of the synthesis of these two proteins is controlled by factors or conditions that are dependent upon the stage of differentiation of the hepatoma cell lines. 
4291895|Prostaglandins A
4291590| Tumorigenicity of a clonally derived line of mouse melanoma (B16) cells is completely suppressed after growth for 14 days in 3 g per ml of 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and partially suppressed after growth for shorter periods of time at the same concentration or for long periods at 1 g per ml of BrdU. The tumorigenicity returns after growth in normal medium. The time course of this return is gradual and similar to the time course of the loss of tumorigenicity, although slower. Several other mouse tumor lines also show a reduction of tumorigenicity after growth in BrdU. Injection of mice with cells (C471) maintained continuously in 1 g per ml of BrdU produces an inflammatory reaction at the site of injection in C57BL/6J mice and confers immunity to subsequent challenge with untreated tumorigenic melanoma cells. The degree of immunity conferred increases linearly with the number of preinjections, with four preinjections producing 90% immunity. Injections of BrdU-treated cells together with or later than tumorigenic cells confer little or no protection. 
4292465|We have compared the growth rates, kinetics of cell aging, and replicative life spans of skin fibroblast cell cultures derived from three pairs of monozygotic twins of similar ages. The results of these studies indicated no significant differences in the cell densities 7 days after inoculation or replicative life spans within each twin pair but highly significant differences among each twin pair. The kinetics by which each culture aged (
20170288| This paper reviews the effects of insect hormones on lepidopteran imaginal discs cultured in vitro. -ecdysone stimulated both evagination and cuticle deposition of wing discs of Plodia interpunctella (Hbner). However, evagination required a shorter exposure to ecdysone than did cuticle deposition. Cuticle deposition was obtained under the following conditions: (a) a 24-hr pulse of -ecdysone (0.5-5.0 g/ml); (b) continuous treatment with 0.2 g/ml -ecdysone; or (c) continuous treatment with 0.5 to 50.0 g/ml -ecdysone in medium conditioned with larval fat body. Investigations of some biochemical effects of ecdysone showed that RNA and protein synthesis was required for evagination and cuticle deposition. In particular, studies with actinomycin D and cycloheximide (at nontoxic levels) showed that RNA and protein synthesis during the ecdysone-dependent period was essential for subsequent development. These findings support the hypothesis that stimulation of macromolecular synthesis is fundamental to the action of ecdysone on imaginal discs. The influence of beta-ecdysone on chitin synthesis was also examined. -ecdysone stimulated uptake and incorporation of tritiated-glucosamine by cultured P. interpunctella wing discs. Addition of hexosamines to the culture medium had no influence on ecdysone-induced cuticle deposition, but inhibition of glucose-uptake by cytochalasin B prevented the formation of cuticle. The action of ecdysone on particular enzymes in the chitin pathway remains to be elucidated. 
4292010|By means of a newly developed method of cultivating pineal tissue in vitro, the types of cells which comprise rat pineal glands have been identified. Previous in vitro studies have involved short-term culture more suitably called "organ culture" and provide no means of assessing the contribution of a putative "pineal" cell versus any other cell type found in the cultures. Short-term outgrowths of minced rat pineal glands provided a reproducible and easily dissociated source of pineal-derived cells. In monolayer culture these cells continued to have pineal enzyme activities which were sensitive to pineal-activating substances, and the cells aggregated to mimic the lobular organization of intact glands. Two types of aggregates were found, each composed of a single morphological cell type. In addition to the transient appearance of skeletal muscle straps, connective tissue and neural/glial tissue was consistently found. The cell types are discussed in relation to their in vivo counterparts.
4292593|An achlorophyllus isoline originated spontaneously from a green callus line derived from a genotype of Lotus corniculatus L. cv. Leo. This isoline is characterized by significantly faster callus growth than the green line and by differentiating significantly fewer plants per gram of callus when subcultured on a shoot differentiating medium. The isoline does, however, develop loci of meristematic cells when transferred from a medium containing 2,4-D to one containing benzyl adenine. After this transfer, plastids, mitochondria, dictyosomes, and endoplasmic reticulum appear to be more prevalent in many cells. Nuclei and nucleoli become more prominent in these cells. Ingrowths, lined with plasmalemma, develop along the outer tangential cell wall of many cells in contact with the culture medium and along various walls of cells found in the interior of the callus. These cells have characteristics of transfer cells. A few cells at the periphery of meristematic groups of cells elaborate lamellar structures similar to suberin lamellae in their cell walls.
4292067|Chronic exposure of a cloned rat hepatocyte culture (RL-PR-C) to a subtoxic, sublethal dose of aflatoxin B
4291958|A continuous attached cell strain has been developed from the IPRI-CF-124 line of the spruce budworm, Choristoneura fumiferana. This was done by discarding suspended cells at each passage, rinsing attached cells with 0.05% trypsin and using only the strongly attached cells for subculturing. The method is very effective in that the proportion of attached cells increased from 6% in the parent cell line to 97% in the new cell strain after 20 passages. The attachment and growth properties are stable after storage of cells in liquid nitrogen. The new cell strain is designated IPRI-CF-124T and has a population doubling time comparable to that of the parent cell line.
4291685|Tissues and cells from various life stages and ages of Anopheles quadrimaculatus were cultured in several media. Pupal tissue maintained in Schneider's (1) medium was the most successful system. These cells remained viable for 210 days. Six morphologically distinguishable cell types were observed: spherical cells, two type of neuronlike cells, musclelike cells, epithelial-like cells, and polymorphic cells.
4292905|Human lung epithelial cells have been isolated and maintained in pure culture and characterized during their time in culture. Any residual fibroblasts were removed by selective trypsinization within the first 48 h in culture and the residual epithelial cells from the primary culture grew to confluent density. The epithelial cells at Passage 2 or greater were serially subpassaged when cultures reached ca. 80% confluency. This procedure permitted us to conduct biochemical and structural studies of starting materials and subsequent population doublings. Electron microscope evaluation of both initial monolayers and cell suspensions showed cultures to be composed of a single cell type. These cells had microvilli on their free or apical surface. Subsequent population doubling level 1 up to 5 exhibited the same structures. They contained lamellar inclusions, which are typical of Type II alveolar epithelial cells. Fetal lung (age 18 to 20 wk) cell suspensions processed for electron microscopy before culturing showed cells to be undifferentiated, epithelial-like with small microvilli along cell borders, and with desmosomes at cell junctions. Lamellar inclusions were not observed in these cells. Ultrastructural studies of the cultured epithelial cells demonstrated that the lamellar inclusions had a slightly positive reaction when tested for acid phosphatase. Phospholipid analysis of these lung epithelial cells showed a phospholipid composition consistent with that found in surfactant-containing Type II cells. Cultured epithelial cells stained with phosphine 3-R demonstrated a green fluorescent cytoplasm and nucleus with brightly fluorescent yellow-orange perinuclear particles. The preceding characterization of these cells leads us to conclude that they exhibit structural and biochemical features commensurate with Type II epithelial cells from human lung. Moreover, these selection techniques applied to the isolation of human lung Type II cells from the tissue permit us to study the differentiative function of these cells routinely under conditions of growth in vitro.
4292483|Earlier studies showed that guinea pig lung fibroblasts in cell culture could be "activated" by naturally occurring peptides with a resultant increase in glycolysis and glycosaminoglycan formation. Such connective tissue activation (CTA) in human cell systems (synovial, cartilage, dermal) has proved a useful tool for studying the mechanisms of inflammation and dissecting the efficacy and actions of anti-inflammatory drugs. The present study examined the consequences of treating basal and activated guinea pig lung fibroblasts with glucocorticoids. The data indicate that glucocorticoids minimally suppress glycosaminoglycan (GAG) synthesis in nonactivated cultures. Further, CTA was inhibited to only a minor degree in activated lung fibroblast cultures by steroids, and even markedly supraphysiologic concentrations of glucocorticoids were not notably inhibitory. It was of interest that thiols enhanced suppression of incremental GAG synthesis by some glucocorticoids in activated lung fibroblast cultures.
4291911|In the present study, the effect of the cell synchronization on the detection of T and B cell surface markers of two continuous lines of lymphoid cells (FL-74 and CT45-S) was examined. Suspension cultures were synchronized by deprivation of isoleucine and surface markers were quantitated by T rosette formation with guinea pig erythrocytes (E) and B rosette formation with an erythrocyte-antibody-complement (EAC) complex. After 24 hr, cells were resuspended in complete culture medium. Virtually 100% of FL-74 cells expressed the T cell marker at time 0, with a progressive decline to 80% at saturation density. A bell-shaped curve for expression of the EAC marker on CT45-S cells was seen with maximum expression in the logarithmic phase of the growth cycle. Spent culture medium was examined for the presence of free soluble receptor. Preincubation of E and EAC in appropriate old medium resulted in 42% inhibition of E rosettes and 42% inhibition of EAC rosettes with FL-74 and CT45-S cells, respectively. Thus quantitation of lymphocyte subpopulations as B, T or null cells with these cellular markers may be influenced by the age of the cell examined, phase of the cell cycle and the amount of free receptor present in the surrounding medium.
4292119|Commercial plant tissue cultures of several ornamental plants exhibiting reduced vigor and chlorosis in stage II were found to contain bacterial contaminants. In most cases, visible evidence of the contaminants in the tissue-culture medium was not easily discernible. Physiological and pathological tests employing pure cultures proved 5 of the 10 isolates obtained to be Erwinia carotovora, an important pathogen of many horticultural plants. The tissue cultures from which E. carotovora was isolated were of plant types nonsusceptible under normal commercial production methods. These results indicate nonhost plants may serve as carriers of E. carotovora during tissue-culture propagation and also possibly under normal methods of commercial production.
4292329|Transformation of plant tissues into crown gall tumors has been associated with the transfer of a portion of a tumor-inducing plasmid (Ti-plasmid) into plant DNA. Various laboratories have regenerated normal-appearing plants from a number of crown gall tumors. This study investigates the fate of the foreign DNA in a series of tissues derived from various parts of a plant regenerated from the tumor BT-37 by Braun and his co-workers. It was found that all the foreign DNA sequences were lost from tissues that had lost all their tumorous traits; whereas the plasmid DNA sequences were still present in tissues that appeared normal but still exhibited tumorous traits when returned to tissue culture media. From these studies it would appear that the presence of the Ti-plasmid sequences in the plant DNA is required for the maintenance of the transformed state.
4291635|The mutation lethal (1) myospheroid causes death in affected Drosophila melanogaster embryos. The action of this gene was investigated by culturing normal and mutant embryonic cells in vitro. Under these culture conditions, normal myoblasts and neuroblasts differentiated to yield myocytes and neurons. The action of the mutant gene was manifested in an altered differentiation of at least two cell types, myocytes and neurons. It prevented differentiation of all myocytes and a fraction of the neurons in vitro. Failure of these cells to differentiate in vitro suggests that the mutation affects the integrity of myocytes and neurons in vivo and contributes to the myospheroid lethal effect.
4292439|The fatty acid composition of cultured human skin fibroblasts was modified by adding either oleic or linoleic acid to the growth medium. After the cultures became confluent, they were washed and transferred to different maintenance media in order to determine the stability of the various fatty acyl modifications. Some changes in fatty acid composition occurred under all conditions. When the maintenance medium was supplemented with fatty acid, the cellular neutral lipid and phospholipid fatty acyl composition were altered markedly within 16 to 24 hr. If no supplemental fatty acid was available during the maintenance period, however, the modified fatty acyl compositions were sufficiently retained so that appreciable differences between the cells enriched with oleate and linoleate persisted for at least 48 to 72 hr. This considerable degree of stability occurred when either 10% delipidized fetal bovine serum or 10% fetal bovine serum containing its inherent lipids were present in the maintenance medium. Although the triglyceride content of the fatty acid-modified cells was quite labile, neither the cholesterol nor phospholipid content changed appreciably during culture in any of the maintenance media. Since the fatty acid compositional differences persisted during several days of maintenance under certain conditions, these modified cultures appear to be a useful experimental system for assessing the effect of lipid structure on fairly long-term cellular functions.
4291946| A cell line designated SP-1 was established from tissue of the silver perch, Bairdiella chrysura. Cells were fibroblast-like and grew best at 26C in Leibovitz medium (L-15) containing 15% fetal bovine serum and 0.150 M sodium chloride. Passage 1 to passage 9 SP-1 cells contained a chromosome number of 48; at passages 27 and 50 the modal numbers were 51 and 54, respectively. Confirmation of the origin of SP-1 cells was made by the cytotoxic antibody dye-exclusion test. This cell line supported the growth of lymphocystis virus from the silver perch but was not found to replicate various other fish and mammalian viruses. 
4292706| Mitochondria have been isolated from the codling moth Laspeyresia pomonella, CP-1268 cell line. The mitochondrial fraction was isolated from pooled 4 d, exponential growth phase, cultures. The mitochondria were determined to be intact based on the demonstration of respiratory control, the effects of 2,4 dinitrophenol and oligomycin on respiration, the inability to oxidize NADH, and the inability of cytochrome c to enhance respiration. The isolated mitochondria were able to oxidize succinate, pyruvate, malate, -ketoglutarate, and -glycerophosphate efficiently. Of the substrates tested, the CP-1268 mitochondria oxidized succinate most efficiently. The respiratory control ratios ranged from a high of 4.6 for pyruvate to a low of 1.7 with -glycerophosphate. These findings confirm that the mitochondria were tightly coupled. The data also confirm the presence of three sites of oxidative phosphorylation because NAD-linked substrates had ADP-to-0 ratios approaching 3 and flavoprotein linked substrates had values aproaching 2. 
4292490|Cell death was estimated by prelabeling primary chick embryo skeletal muscle cell cultures with [
20170473|Collagen, a major component of the extracellular matrix, is important in maintaining the in vivo characteristics of epidermal cells in vitro. In the present study, the morphological and proliferative characteristics of two human mammary epithelial cell lines (T-47D and MCF-7) cowhide collagen (Vitrogen 100) were studied. When grown in collagen, the tumor cells displayed a spherical shape and formed multilayered, tumorlike aggregates; desmosomes were observed between cells. In contrast, both cell lines grew as monolayers on plastic substratum; cells were characteristically flat and polygonal. When grown in collagen matrix, the human breast cancer cells became more dependent on serum for growth: cells proliferated in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) but failed to grow in 1% serum. On the other hand, these cells proliferated rapidly in 1% serum when they were grown on plastic. Even in 10% serum the doubling time of cells cultured in collagen was longer than that of cells maintained on plastic. In addition, cells cultured in collagen proliferated rapidly in a serum-free medium containing insulin, epidermal growth factor (EGF), estrogen, and transferrin. The collagen gel system may be useful for characterizing physiologically important trophic factors that regulate the proliferation and other functions of human breast tumor cells.
4291790|Primary cell cultures can readily be obtained from human skin using the explant method. With special care it is possible to obtain primary cultures consisting of epidermal keratinocytes without fibroblast contamination. By means of differences in their growth patterns and retention of specific differentiative functions in vitro, keratinocytes and fibroblasts can easily be distinguished. The high degree of confidence in establishing cell identity permits meaningful experimental use of this system. The method of enzymatic separation of epidermis from dermis, followed by culture of cells from the dissociated epidermal tissue, provides both epithelial and dendritic cells. The former are probably keratinocytes, whereas the latter are definitely melanocytes. The possibility of eventual fibroblast overgrowth, using this latter method, has not yet been ruled out with certainty.
4292360|Studies have been carried out to determine an association between glucocorticoid-induced changes in the pattern of growth and the fluctuations of alkaline phosphatase in two HeLa strains. The results showed that growth arrest in steroid-treated cells did not have the characteristics of density-induced growth inhibition. Alkaline phosphatase increased with increased cell density, the increase being greater than control in steroid-treated cells of the "inducible" strain (HeLa S3G,
4292012|A new technique is described for measuring the adhesive strength of a gingival cell line to an agar substratum by the modification of the original "blister" test for adhesives. A cell monolayer was developed on a Petri dish with a hole in the center of the growing surface, overlayed with agar, and the system pressurized to debond the cells from the agar surface. Pressure changes were measured by a capacitance pressure transducer the output of which was measured by a strip-chart recorder. The modulus (E) of the agar overlay was determined and used in the calculation of the adhesive-bond strength (
20170413|Previous work has shown that when chick embryo mesoderm tissue is seeded onto the free, dorsal surface of established sheets of embryonic epithelial endoblast, the former penetrates the latter and spreads on the underlying artificial substratum. In this work, the surface charge on the epithelial sheet has been altered, prior to seeding the mesoderm, to ascertain whether such a change could alter the behavior of the mesoderm with respect to the free surface of the epithelium. Charge alteration was accomplished using the polycations, poly-L-lysine and dilysine. Surface charge characteristics were examined ultra-structurally using cationized and anionized ferritin. Results showed that although surface charge changes were detectable, there was no difference in the behavior of the mesoderm with respect to the endoblast. Neuraminidase did not detectably affect the epithelial surface charge. These results are consistent with the view that changes in substratum surface charge are not necessarily correlated with changes in adhesiveness.
20170265|A method is described for the monolayer cultivation of primary cell suspensions and established cell lines directly in carbon-coated BEEM capsules. BEEM capsules are routinely employed by electron microscopists in tissue embedding procedures; growing monolayer cultures directly on the lids of inverted BEEM capsules presents the obvious advantage of maintaining cell to cell and cell to substratum contacts with a minimum of stress and damage in the preparative steps for electron microscopy.
4292597|Mouse hepatocytes in primary culture were characterized. Hepatocytes were isolated by the two-step hepatic portal vein perfusion method described previously. An optimal cell attachment of 43% was noted after 2 h incubation in 10% fetal bovine serum. Minimal attachment (less than 7%) occurred in serumless medium. Serum concentrations above 10% and attachment durations greater than 2 h resulted in no increased attachment of viable cells. Nonviable cells, however, progressively attached when both of these parameters were increased. Survival data of the cells in culture resembled those reported for rat hepatocytes in primary culture. A progressive decrease in survival was noted following initial attachment until only approximately 15% of initially plated cells remained viable and attached after 8 d culture. The decrease in survival was accompanied by morphologic changes including flattening and elongation of the cells, some multinucleation, and disruption of monolayer groups.
4292134| Human-foreskin fibroblast (HF) and guinea-pig aorta smooth-muscle (SM) cultures were treated with several saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. Relative plating efficiencies were used to determine the proliferative response to each treatment. At low concentrations (16 to 18 M), proliferation in HF cultures was inhibited by 8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid (20:3), and stimulated by both 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid (20:4) and 9-octadecenoic acid (18:1). At these levels, proliferation in SM cultures was unchanged by 20:3, inhibited by 20:4, and enhanced by 18:1. At higher concentrations (80 to 90 M), HF cultures were inhibited by all three unsaturated fatty acids. At these same concentrations, proliferation in SM cultures was inhibited by 20:3 and 20:4, whereas 18:1 continued to stimulate proliferation. Thus proliferative response was a specific effect of the fatty acid used, its concentration, and the cell line involved. Further treatment of SM cultures by tetradecanoic acid (14:0), hexadecanoic acid (16:0), and octadecanoic acid (18:0) showed that their relative abilities to inhibit cell proliferation increased with increasing chain length. Concentrations required for the effective inhibition of proliferation in SM cultures by 14:0, 16:0 and 18:0 were 220 M, 95 M and 18 M, respectively. The fatty acids used in these studies are all endogenous components of sera used as growth supplements in in vitro systems. Their roles as prostaglandin and hydroperoxy fatty-acid precursors (20:3 and 20:4), inhibitors of prostaglandin biosynthesis (18:1), or as calcium ionophores (14:0, 16:0, and 18:0) may allow them to function as endogenous controls of cell proliferation. 
4292387|The establishment of mouse tumor cell lines capable of proliferating in vivo and in suspension culture was undertaken. The MM-46 tumor line, initiated from primary mammary carcinoma arising in a C3H/He mouse, was maintained for over 100 generations in the peritoneal cavities of syngenic mice. At the 50th generation of the tumor suspension, cultures were initiated. The established cell lines, designated TMT-1 and TMT-2, were characterized in vitro and in vivo. The morphological finding indicated that TMT-1 and TMT-2 cells from mice closely resembled the MM-46 tumor cells. The oncogenic potential of the cultured cells was comparable to that of the original ascites tumor. The population doubling time of TMT-1 and TMT-2 cell lines was about 12 hr in mice, whereas the population doubling time of both cell lines lengthened to 20 hr in suspension culture. The increase of doubling time in culture was due to the prolongation of the G
20170556| Chronic treatment (more than 3 d) of GH cells, cloned rat pituitary cells producing prolactin, with 100 mM TRH resulted in a 41% reduction in the rate of cell growth in a medium containing 0.5% fetal bovine serum. These effects of TRH appeared both in the medium containing a higher concentration of serum and in that containing six growth factors, i.e. insulin, transferrin, parathyroid hormone, fibroblast growth factor, triiodothyronine, and multiplication-stimulating activity (MSA) instead of serum. TRH stimulated prolactin production by GH cells in a dose-dependent manner both in the serum-supplemented and serum-free media. On the other hand, TRH, at 1 nM, elicited a 130% stimulation in the cellular growth, whereas, at concentrations of more than 10 nM, it inhibited the growth significantly. In the defined culture system, it was demonstrated that TRH stimulated prolactin production in the presence or absence of six growth factors, whereas its inhibitory effects on cellular growth appeared only in the presence of MSA regardless of the presence or absence of the other five factors. Furthermore, it was shown that a dose-dependent stimulatory effect of MSA on the growth of GH cells was suppressed by TRH. TRH exhibited only a stimulatory effect on cellular growth in the medium containing the five factors other than MSA. In conclusion, TRH could inhibit cell growth of GH in the presence of MSA in the defined medium or MSA-like factor(s) in the serum-supplemented medium. 
4292125|A method of perfusion organ culture is described in which explants cultured at the air-medium interface are bathed by a continuous flow of nutrient medium. Morphological studies on the fetal rat lung indicate that explant development in this system is comparable to that obtained using standard organ-culture dishes. Medium supply is easily manipulated and continuous sampling of the effluent stream is possible without disturbing the immediate explant environment. The basic design facilitates secretory-response studies on cultured organ explants as demonstrated by a study of glucose-stimulated insulin release by the neonatal rat pancreas.
4292245|Sister chromatid exchanges (SCE) and chromosome aberrations were induced in nondividing CHO cells that had been arrested in their cell cycle by deprivation of the essential amino acid arginine. Cells arrested in arginine-deficient medium (ADM) were treated with one of the mutagenic agents N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) or mitomycin C (MMC) and refed with complete medium; the recovering cell population was sampled at various intervals thereafter and mitotic cells analyzed for the presence of chromosome aberrations and SCE. Both chemicals were observed to cause delays in the cell cycle of recovering cells and to induce chromosome aberrations and SCE at low doses. We have described the variation in the incidence of chromosome aberrations and SCE with respect to sampling time and the number of cell cycles traversed. When ADM-arrested CHO cells were treated with three mutagens at various intervals either before or after release from ADM, it was observed that: (a) UV light induced the greatest number of SCE when applied to cells undergoing DNA synthesis, and SCE yields induced by this agent could be reduced by postirradiation incubation in ADM; (b) MNNG induced fewer SCE when applied to cells undergoing DNA synthesis, and SCE yields induced by this agent could not be reduced by posttreatment incubation in ADM for 24 hr. (c) MMC induced the same level irrespective of the time of exposure, and SCE yields induced by this agent could not be reduced by posttreatment incubation in ADM for 24 hr.
4291993|Fetal mouse lungs were cultivated, using the dual-rotary circumfusion system for tissue culture, and their histotypic development was surveyed for 75 days by phase-contrast and electron microscopy. Alveoli, terminal bronchioles and alveolar macrophages were photographed periodically with still and time-lapse phase-contrast microscopy. Their histotypic appearance was confirmed by electron micrographs of the 1- and 2 1/2-month-old specimens. These revealed typical alveoli surrounded by a basal lamina and composed of types I and II pneumocytes containing various lamellar-body forms within the type II cells, the alveolar lumen, and the alveolar macrophages. There was a shift from almost all type II cells in the 1-month-old alveoli to the presence of frequent type I cells as constituents of the alveoli in the 2 1/2-month-old cultures. The terminal bronchioles were tubules consisting of ciliated cells with Clara cells interspersed between them. The ciliated cells contained as many as 30 cilia or basal bodies per section and numerous microvilli. They were attached to each other and to the Clara cells by junctional complexes and accessory desmosomes which were generally in the apical ends of the cells. The Clara cells typically had glycogen granules interspersed between lamellae of the endoplasmic reticulum, contained numerous well dispersed mitochondria, occasional lysosome-like granules and crystalloid bodies which appeared to be tubular. Some Clara cells presented a moderately dense secretory granule in the center of the whorl of the endoplasmic reticulum.
4292893|Na
20170539| 3,5 Adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) inhibits the proliferation of Reuber H35 rat hepatoma cells at concentrations higher than 10 M. This inhibitory effect can be demonstrated both in exponentially growing monolayer cultures and in single cell clonal growth. The inhibition of the cell proliferation is due to both a short term (division delay) and a long term effect (cytotoxicity). The short term effect seems to be due to cAMP itself as it is potentiated by the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 1-methyl,3-isobutyl xanthine (MIX). The long term effect probably is due to degradation products of the cyclic nucleotide. It is shown by a combination of time lapse cinematography, autoradiography, and flow cytofluorometry that the division delay is due to a prolongation of the S phase with no apparent changes in the duration of the G1 phase. The possible causes of this prolongation of the S phase by cAMP are discussed. 
4292124|Amino-acid restriction was studied using a strain of human diploid fibroblasts (HDF) isolated from fetal skin. HDF populations were maintained at reduced proliferation rates by lowering cystine or glutamine concentrations of Eagle's MEM. Effects of this treatment on mean cell diameters, total cell protein and specific activity of acid phosphatase were assessed. Threshold levels of cystine required for maintenance were found to be markedly influenced by type and/or batch of serum used irrespective of their free cystine content. A 96-hr exposure of passage 25 cells to medium 0.01 or 0.005 mM in cystine resulted in an increased mean cell diameter and a greater heterogeneity of cell size. This was accompanied by an increase in the total cellular protein. A 48-hr exposure, followed by return to control serial cultivation, induced persistent change in mean cell diameter without affecting the total life span (49 passages over 165 days). The mean size of untreated cells increased with serial passage reaching a size similar to treated cells only at passage 44. Acid-phosphatase specific activities were higher in cells maintained under conditions restrictive in cystine. None of the above changes were observed when glutamine concentrations were reduced to 0.0025 mM, a level required to inhibit division rates. The possible relevance of these findings to the phenomenon of in vitro cell senescence is discussed.
20170476|L-Carnitine transport was studied in cultured muscle cells and skin fibroblasts of patients with primary systemic carnitine deficiency and control subjects. In both cell culture types, two systems for carnitine transport were identified. The kinetic parameters for carnitine transport were remarkably similar in cultured muscle cells and skin fibroblasts. Normal rates and kinetic properties of carnitine transport were observed for both cell lines from patients with systemic carnitine deficiency. These studies do not rule out a defect in carnitine transport in vivo.
4291771|A diffusion chamber which allows the continuous observation of biological indicators is described. Cells can be microscopically monitored while they are exposed to soluble products diffusing across a semipermeable membrane. The chamber consists of a cylinder of selective membrane material, in which the indicator system is contained, bonded to a normal tissue culture dish. Various cell cultures (HeLa, HT29, L cells) and organ cultures (hamster trachea) have been propagated successfully in these dishes. This continuous observation diffusion chamber is simple to construct and manipulate, and appears to have widespread potential application.
4292039|Expression of fetal antigens in early and late passages of tissue culture cells derived from C3H/HeN and C57BL/KaLw mouse fetal cells and from lung tissue of young C57BL/6N mice was investigated by the isotopic antiglobulin technique. The late passage lines of fetal cells had undergone "spontaneous" neoplastic transformation in culture. The antisera were produced by syngeneic immunization with 5000 R x-irradiated tissues from C3H/HeN and C57BL/6N fetuses of 1 to 2 weeks gestation. Fetal antigens were found to be retained even after 5 years in cell lines derived from fetal tissues. In these lines no consistent change in fetal antigen expression could be correlated with neoplastic transformation. In contrast, the early passages of adult cells did not have detectable amounts of fetal antigens. However, fetal antigen(s) was demonstrated in cells of the late passages, and cells of both lines grew as sarcomas when next assayed 55 days later. In addition, fetal antigens were also present in established tumor lines in culture.
4292083|Sixty-six bone-marrow specimens, derived from patients with hematological and non-hematological disorders, were processed for cytogenetic analysis. Modifications of various parameters of the standard (direct) culture procedure were investigated and the quality of the preparations determined. As a result of these experiments, an improved culture technique was developed that yielded significantly better quality chromosome preparations. This method is based on a short incubation (25-min) of the bone-marrow specimen, immediately following aspiration, in a solution containing both hypotonic KCl and colcemid and completely omits the use of tissue culture medium.
4291602|The quality of the fetal bovine serum (FBS) produced for tissue culture purposes by eight commercial suppliers in the United States was tested over a period of 1 year. The results were compared with tests on some special FBS produced during the same period under conditions which included maximal sterile precautions, freedom from whole cells, and rapid processing in the cold. The findings were that : (a) the specially produced FBS had demonstrably better cell growth-supporting capacity, (b) commercial FBS had a significantly higher free fatty acid content compared to the specially produced FBS, (c) higher free fatty acid content was correlated with poorer cell growth-supporting capacity, (d) extremely wide variations among the different commercial suppliers were found in some of the test results, (e) roughly 10% of commercial lots of FBS were contaminated with bacteria and/or fungi, and (f) at least three different bacteriological culture media, including blood agar plates, were required for adequate sterility testing of FBS. The need for better quality control of FBS is discussed, the method for producing FBS with better cell growth-supporting capacity is described, and both "minimal" and "stringent" ranges of acceptable values for some chemical tests suitable for quality control are given.
4292739|Clonal growth and serial subculture of diploid liver epithelial cells from neonatal rats were achieved in a serum-free medium (SFM) supplemented with linoleic and oleic acid linked to fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (fafBSA), epidermal growth factor (EGF), transferrin, insulin, selenous acid, and fetuin. Because it is not known whether factors added to defined media facilitate attachment, support proliferation, or both, a serum-free "attachment medium" was first devised in which cells would attach to the substratum without loss of viability. Then a growth medium that would support cell proliferation was developed. Fetuin enhanced the degree of attachment, and the lipid supplements and EGF induced a marked proliferative response. Serum-free medium supported the formation of colonies equivalent in size, number, and morphology to those obtained in serum-supplemented medium. Cells plated at a higher inoculum density and subcultured regularly for up to 25 wk underwent two to three doublings per week and acquired a flattened epithelial cell morphology. Early passages of rat liver epithelial cells, cultured in SFM may be useful in studies of the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation.
4292254| A technique was devised for following the uptake and location of vitamin A in organ cultures. Explants of 12- and 13-day embryonic mouse upper lip skin were grown for 3, 6 or 9 days in biological medium to which was added 0, 4.1 or 6.9 g per ml of retinyl acetate. This form of vitamin A caused glandular morphogenesis of vibrissa follicles, and keratinization in epidermis and follicles was completely suppressed in 12-day explants and partially suppressed in 13-day explants. Frozen sections at 16 m showed the white, nonfading fluorescence of keratin and the green, rapidly-fading fluorescence due to vitamin A which was captured by high-speed photography. Although more concentrated within lipid droplets in the dermis, the vitamin penetrated both the epidermis and the hair follicles. The ability to obtain permanent photographic records of the fading fluorescence makes this a useful method for analyzing vitamin A distribution as well as keratin distribution. 
4292562|Blastoderm explants from Brachydanio rerio (Teleostei: Cyprinidae) high blastulas exhibited limited differentiation of optic structures in culture. A number of explants showed migration of pigmented retinal epithelial cells and formation of monolayers. The findings permit comparative studies in vitro on phenomena pertaining to pigmented retinal epithelial cell morphology, function, and differentiation.
4291898|A simple method is presented for establishing continuous cell lines from Drosophila melanogaster embryos. Subculturing is performed after the first 8 weeks and at 2-week intervals thereafter. Initial plating densities of
4292143|Nineteen human breast carcinoma cell lines have been established as continuous cultures during the past 6 years in our laboratory. This preliminary report is designed to list the lines by their designated code numbers (MDA-MB) and present a brief summary of their morphological, cytogenetic and biochemical characteristics. Sixteen of our lines were obtained from pleural effusions, two from brain metastases, and one from pericardial fluid. All lines have been shown to be distinct entities and are uncontaminated by HeLa cells or each other. A lq marker chromosome is present in all but one of the lines examined.
4292336|Methods are described for screening for teratogenic compounds using differentiating neural crest and prechondrogenic limb bud mesenchyme cells in culture. Substances to be tested are either added directly to the culture medium or are combined in a dialysis bag with the postmitochondrial fraction from rat liver and certain cofactors. In the latter case, the compound and its metabolites are gradually released into the medium from the dialysis bag. The results obtained with 14 compounds demonstrate a positive relationship between teratogenicity in vivo and alterations in the growth or the differentiation of the cultured cells.
4292025|Eukaryotic DNA is functionally divided into thousands of replicons, each of which may be duplicated at a characteristic time within the DNA synthetic (S) period. Our approach toward an understanding of the molecular mechanisms which control orderly eukaryotic DNA synthesis has been: (a) to devise a method of cell synchrony in a suitable tissue culture system wherein all cells in the population enter and traverse the S period with a high degree of synchrony; (b) to determine, utilizing this system, precisely when during the S period critical events and macromolecular syntheses occur; and (c) to examine, by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis, the spectrum of proteins which become associated with chromatin during the S period in such a way as to suggest their involvement with DNA synthesis. Possible mechanisms for control are discussed based on the results presented here.
4292325|Four neoplastic diseases of plants: crown gall, which is caused by Ti plasmid DNA; Black's wound tumor disease by an RNA virus; the Kostoff genetic tumors by chromosomal imbalance; and habituation, which results from a spontaneous activation of select biosynthetic systems, have been analyzed and compared. It has been found that both the development of a capacity for autonomous growth and the nature of the heritable cellular change that underlies tumorigenesis are similar in the four instances. All develop a capacity for autonomous growth as a result of the persistent activation of select biosynthetic systems, the products of which are concerned with cell growth and division. That the persistent activation of these biosynthetic systems does not involve heritable changes of an irreversible type is indicated by the finding that a reversal of the neoplastic state occurred in three of the test systems. Since the tumor cells in these instances were found to remain totipotent the results suggest that whether the normal or tumor phenotype is expressed is determined by how the genetic information is regulated in a cell. Regulation appears to be accomplished in part through positive feedback control mechanisms. Foreign genetic information could act either in a regulatory manner to persistently activate normal biosynthetic systems or it could code for one or more essential but normally limiting substance(s) and thus replace a substance(s) that in the case of the Kostoff tumors or habituation is specified by host cell genes, or it could do both. In either case, the foreign genetic information can be regulated in much the same manner as are the host cell genes to give rise to either the normal or tumor phenotype.
4291884|Cell suspensions from monolayer cultures of 3T3, SV-3T3, BHK, BS-C-1, or macrophages, were prepared by brief exposure of the cultures to the amide anesthetic lidocaine. Cells were subcultivated six times without marked impairment of plating efficiency. The method should be applicable to physiological, biochemical, or immunological studies in which exposure of cells to proteolytic enzymes is to be avoided.
4292106| Nine cultures of fibroblast cell types and 13 epithelial-like cell types were maintained for 1 week in media supplemented with L-asborbic acid (50 g per ml). All fibroblast-like cultures produced extracellular fibers that stained positively by a silver-impregnation reticulin stain. Nine of the 13 epithelial-like cultures produced fibers that stained positively for reticulin. Nearly all cultures not supplemented with ascorbic acid showed no fiber staining. Those few lines that stained positively for reticulin in the absence of ascorbic-acid supplementation demonstrated only slight reticulin formation. Reticulin from one fibroblast culture and one epithelial culture was examined by electron microscopy, and the silver-impregnated fibrils were morphologically identical to collagen. The reticulin was digestible with collagenase, providing further evidence that the silver-impregnation reticulin stain identifies collagen in culture. The demonstration of collagen can be performed easily in histology laboratories using Formalin-fixed cells, and provides a means of assaying a functional property of cells in culture which is characteristic of connective tissue fibroblasts in general as well as certain specialized epithelia. 
4291608|A number of fixation methods for different types of cells in culture were compared, and the best preservation of nuclear and cytoplasmic details was obtained by fixation with Bouin's solution for 15 min, prior to staining with hematoxylin and eosin. All of the fixatives, including Bouin's solution, damaged various structures, notably the peripheral glass-attached cytoplasm and the intercellular connections. Micrographs obtained by bright field, phase contrast, and interference contrast (Nomarski) microscopy are presented. Much more realistic pictures, bringing out details not observed after fixation and staining, were obtained by Nomarski microscopy of living, unfixed cultures. Most conspicuous were numerous thin, cytoplasmic, cilia-like extensions, concentrated on the glass-attached peripheral margins, which were also visible on other cell surfaces and as intercellular connections. These structures were most characteristic of SV40-transformed human amnion cells. Although fixation and staining emphasize certain cell components (for example, inclusion bodies), many aspects of cellular morphology are better demonstrated by observing living cells by interference microscopy or by Nomarski interference contrast microscopy. Surface features of unfixed cells, seen by Nomarski interference contrast microscopy, were similar to the surface features of glutaraldehyde-osmium tetroxide-fixed cells studied as metallic replicas in the electron microscope.
4292911| When Drosophila cell lines are exposed to physiological doses of the steroid molting hormone, ecdysterone, they enter mitotic arrest and differentiate morphologically. These responses are accompanied by specific changes in gene expression. Several enzyme activities (acetylcholinesterase, -galactosidase, dopa decarboxylase, and catalase) are induced and the synthesis of a cytoplasmic actin and the four small heat-shock proteins is initiated. Several of these ecdysterone inducible genes have been physically isolated and characterized, in several cases by DNA sequencing. Current studies focus on introducing cloned ecdysterone inducible genes into responsive cells by DNA mediated transfection. Once it is clear that these introduced genes acquire the normal pattern of hormone-regulated gene expression in the cell, in vitro mutagenesis can be used before transfection to modify their structure. Transient expression, then, can become a functional assay to define regions of DNA flanking the coding region of inducible genes that are needed for proper gene expression and regulation in cultured cells. 
20170438|A continuous line of epithelioid cells was established from explant skin tissues of the green sea turtle, Chelonia mydas. These cells, designated GTS, have been subcultured more than 60 times in commercially available mammalian cell culture medium supplemented with 5% bovine calf serum. Of those temperatures tested, optimal growth was achieved at 30C although replication occured between 16 and 37 C. These cells may be held as monolayers at 8 C or stored frozen in growth medium containing 10% dimethylsulfoxide at -70 or -196 C. The modal number of 55 chromosomes per cell is in agreement with the heterogametic female diploid number of this species. The GTS line represents the first established culture of normal epithelioid skin cells to be reported for a poikilothermic species.
4292662| Econazole, an imidazole derivative with high antifungal activity, was tested for cytotoxicity using five sensitive tests of human cell function in vitro: colony forming efficiency, growth rate, cell cycle distribution of a permanent epithelioid cell line (T-1E), and attachment efficiency and urokinase production by early passage human embryonic kidney cells. None of these endpoints was detectably affected by 1 g/ml Econazole in serum containing medium. At 3 g/ml, Econazole reduced slightly the growth rate of T-1E cells but did not detectably affect the other end points. 
4292103|When washed cells from human semen samples were plated out, epithelial cultures were obtained. The human ejaculates used as starting material contained, in addition to spermatazoa,
4292890| The present study was undertaken to define the conditions for optimal cryopreservation of hepatocytes. Two different freezing procedures were analyzed: a slow freezing rate (SFR) (-2 C/min down to -30 C and then quick freezing to -196 C) and a fast freezing rate (FFR) (direct freezing of tubes to -196 C: -39 C/min). Cells were frozen in fetal bovine serum containing 10% Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). After rapid thawing at 37 C, followed by dilution and removal of the cryoprotectant, cells were plated and several parameters were followed as criteria for optimal cryopreservation of cells. The FFR cells showed no apparent ultrastructural damage after 24 h of culture. Plating efficiency and spreading were similar as controls. Gluconeogenesis from pyruvate and fructose, tyrosine amino transferase induction by glucagon and dexamethasone, urea production, and plasma protein synthesis of FFR cells were similar to those found in control cultures. The FFR procedure, in comparison to the SFR method, seemed to render the best preserved hepatocytes. 
4291698|When IPL-1 medium was used for three serial incubations of cells of the IPRL-21 insect cell line (Spodoptera frugiperda, J. E. Smith) at least 23 fatty acids were identified from the media and/or from the cells. During the first incubation only negligible changes occurred in the total fatty acid content of the medium, but after the second and third incubations the total content decreased. Seven of the 23 fatty acids (palmitic, palmitoleic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, linolenic, and arachidonic acids) comprised 92% of the total fatty acid content, but the specific concentrations varied after each 7-day incubation. During the first incubation, the concentration of the monoene fatty acids increased, and the concentration of the more highly unsaturated fatty acids decreased. During the second and third serial incubations, the specific concentrations of all fatty acids decreased, with the exception of palmitoleic acid. These changes in the total fatty acid content and in the specific concentration of individual fatty acids in the cell indicated uptake of fatty acids from the medium and/or cellular lipid biosynthesis. The fatty acid content of the cells differed during the active growth phase and the stationary phase.
4292710|The synthesis of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), the subunit of HCG (
4292800|Plasma amine oxidase activities (benzylamine oxidase and spermine oxidase) were determined in the sera of a number of species of various ages. Benzylamine oxidase (BZO) activity, measured spectrophotometrically, was present in bovine, equine, and ovine species examined. Generally its activity in serum increased with the age of the animal. Spermine oxidase activity (SPO) was estimated by a bioassay of in vitro toxicity and did not necessarily correlate with BZO. Cytotoxicity in the presence of spermidine was found only in the sera of the ruminant species examined. Serum activity tended to rise with animal age; however, great variability was found in perinatal bovine sera. The 50% lethal dose (LD
4291626| A viper spleen cell line, designated VSW, continuously produces "C-type" viral particles. Cells were superinfected at 33C with the mammalian vesicular stomatitis and rabies viruses. Electron microscopy revealed the replication by budding of "C" and rhabdoviruses from the plasma membrane of individual cells. The morphology of these viruses is similar to that previously described for avian and mammalian systems. 
4291547|Decalcified chicken egg shell membrane is a suitable physical substrate for the growth of monolayers of an epithelial line of tissue culture cells, MDCK. The shell membranes with their adherent sheets of cells are easily prepared for cross-section study of monolayer growth with electron microscopy.
4292436|A continuous cell line of a nonhematophagous mosquito was obtained by using partially incapacitated but living larvae as the source. The cells were predominantly epithelioid and diploid (2N = 6). Syncytia were occasionally observed in the normal cell cultures.
4291671|N-2-Hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES) added to bicarbonate buffer in cell culture medium was found to promote continuous logarithmic growth of human lymphocytoid cell lines. Consistent high yields of viable cells were obtained in the combined buffer system. Storage of lymphocytoid cells in the combined buffer system at room temperature allowed successful reinitiation of growth of the cultures.
4292787|Growth characteristics of human esophageal epithelial cells have been determined in primary explant and serial culture. Normal human esophagus was obtained from donor patients in a heart /lung transplantation program; tissue obtained at autopsy (6 to 22 h after death) was not viable. When mucosal specimens (
4292121|The in vitro effects of protein hormones on the stimulation of casein secretion by mouse mammary epithelial cells were studied. Mouse mammary glands were enzymatically dissociated and used immediately or were stored frozen and thawed just before use. Cells were cultured on floating collagen gels in the presence of insulin, cortisol and a pituitary or placental polypeptide hormone. Casein, released into the medium, was assayed by a radioimmunoassay against one of the components of mouse casein. Mammary cells released casein into the medium in the presence of as little as 10 ng of ovine prolactin per ml of medium. Human growth hormone stimulated the casein secretion to the same extent as prolactin. Human placental lactogen, ovine and bovine growth hormones were less stimulatory. Luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone had no effect on the stimulation of casein secretion.
4291751|The effect of aflatoxin B
4291657|Ventricular heart cultures were prepared from newborn rats and examined in Rose chambers by high resolution, phase-contrast optics. Details of the procedure are given for obtaining a high yield of myocardial or endothelial cells. Photographic records were obtained of living cells by using photomicrography, cinematography, and high speed filming to document the cytological differences between endothelial and myocardial cells, details of mitosis in the two cell types, and patterns of contractility. Myocardial cells can be distinguished from endothelial cells in the living state by the following criteria: dense cytoplasm; giant and pleomorphic mitochondria or sarcosomes; presence of small, round nuclei; binucleation; one or two round, dense nucleoli; a specialized Golgi apparatus around the nucleus; myofibrils; intercalated discs; myopodia; small cell size; failure of cell migration; spontaneous contractions; formation of synchronized networks; and flattened appearance with adhesion to other cells during mitosis. Contracting myocardial cells are shown to undergo mitosis. Contractions become weaker at metaphase and then cease at anaphase. Daughter cells may resume contractions. Organized myofibrils are generally not detected during the mitotic periods when contractions are minimal or absent. It is proposed that myofibrils undergo a transient disorganization during mid-mitosis and become reorganized in the daughter cell(s). It is suggested that there is a competition for energy at the time of spindle changes and chromosome movements, so that priority is given to the mitotic process rather than to myofibrillar contractions. Myofibrillogenesis is considered to be a relatively rapid process. The average mitotic time is 2.5 hr for endothelial cells and 6.1 hr for myocardial cells. Failure of cytokinesis frequently occurs in dividing myocardial cells and results in the formation of binucleated cells. A sequence is presented of a binucleated myocardial cell which undergoes an abnormal multipolar mitosis, leading to polynucleation. Myocardial cells incorporate tritiated thymidine into nuclear DNA. The question of mitosis and differentiation of myocardial cells is reviewed. It is concluded that myocardial cells can no longer be cited in support of the dogma that differentiated cells do not divide. However, there is a temporary competition between the two phenomena at the metaphase-anaphase stages.
4292408|This study aimed at evaluating by a quantitative assay the fibrin clot retractile activity (FCR) of C3H embryo fibroblasts during their growth and aging in culture. Cell from primary and subsequent subcultures were tested at defined times from seeding, in a specially devised micromethod. Results indicate that cell-induced FCR has a kinetic similar to platelet-induced FCR; it depends on the number of cells and time of incubation in the system. It is absent or low in cells harvested from primary culture, then increases and remains high in the following doublings decreasing sharply at the end of the replicative life span in culture.
4292156|A method for preparing primary monolayer cultures of postnatal rat hepatocytes has been developed in our laboratory. Growing cultures in arginine-deficient medium inhibits fibroblast overgrowth, and relatively pure cultures of parenchymal hepatocytes are obtained. This cell culture system has been used to study the cytotoxicity of two hepatotoxic agents, tetracycline and norethindrone. Caffeine was evaluated as an agent thought to be relatively nontoxic to liver. Cytotoxicity was evaluated by phase-contrast microscopy of cellular morphology and by measurement of leakage of intracellular enzymes [arginosuccinate lyase (ASAL), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT), glutamate pyruvate transaminase (GPT), and acid phosphatase (AP)] into the culture medium. Hepatic cultures were treated with each of the agents in concentrations ranging from
4292711|A number of liver epithelial cell cultures were established from 10 to 12-d-old sucklings, 6 to 8-wk-old young adults, or from 2 to 18-month-old partially hepatectomized rats. Improvements in the methods for cell isolation and culture yielded replicating cells from every experiment and they were maintained for different periods with regular passages. The proliferative potential in vitro of adult rat liver cells could be increased if the rats were subjected to partial hepatectomy before cell isolation. In the early passages, the majority of the cells were found to have a true diploid karyotype as studied by the Giemsa-banding technique. Under the culture conditions described, a very high percentage of cells remained in the diploid range for, in most cases, at least 4 months and in some cases for up to 6 months. Afterward, the karyotype was unstable, but no "crisis" period was seen before the cells became aneuploid. Until this time, the growth characteristics of the cells also followed a normal pattern showing density dependent inhibition of division and a lack of markers associated with malignancy. The cultured liver cells exhibited a number of liver specific properties when they were maintained as a confluent monolayer. The early passages of diploid epithelial cell cultures derived from normal and regenerating rat liver are good models for studies of the regulation of cell division and the changes that are related to carcinogenesis.
4292725|Human umbilical vein endothelial cells can be grown in vitro for 28 passages (CPDL 58) in Medium 199 supplemented with newborn bovine serum and a partially purified growth factor derived from bovine brain. Newborn bovine serum is superior to fetal bovine serum for the proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells seeded at low density in the presence of the growth factor. The endothelial cells, which can be passaged every 7 to 10 d at a 1-to-5 split ratio, retain their morphological and biochemical characteristics. The proliferation of cells seeded at low density (
4292480|This study describes the ability of aortic smooth muscle cells to synthesize and accumulate collagen with time in culture. Inasmuch as smooth muscle cell cultures multilayer and continue to divide, albeit slowly, and can be maintained in the same vessels where seeded for extended periods of time, a long-term aging study from a single subcultivated population of cells was carried out. This is different from the usual cell-culture aging achieved by an increase in cell population doublings obtained by repeated subcultivations. The latter process, which is trypsin induced, involves a changing cellular environment including the extracellular matrix that is produced by the cells in culture. Second subcultures of weanling rabbit, aortic media, smooth muscle cells maintained for different periods of time up to 14 wk displayed decreasing hydroxyproline formation with time. Proline hydroxylation was determined by pulsing these second-passage cells with
4291720|Prostaglandin E
4292097|We recently established a clone (2B8) of normal rat prolactin cells that secretes only prolactin into the medium. When grown in the presence of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH), estradiol (E
4292582|The formation of adventitious shoots from potato tuber discs explanted onto a modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing
4292810|The growth of late erythroid precursors (CFU-Es) from adult bone marrow is inhibited when Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium supplied in liquid form is used. Catalase and other H
4292415|In vitro T cell-mediated cytotoxic responses to tumor associated antigens or alloantigens can be augmented by the addition of small amounts (0.1 to 1%) of syngeneic (mouse) or xenogeneic (rabbit) serum in the standard lymphocyte culture medium. Further studies showed that the augmentation is mediated by helper cells, which are induced by culturing the spleen cells or lymph node cells in the presence of these sera. In the syngeneic system performed with mixed lymphocyte tumor cell cultures (MLTC), the serum-induced helper cells are found to be resistant to the lysis of anti-Thy 1.2 antibody and are radioresistant; thus they have the characteristics of macrophages. In the allogeneic system performed with mixed lymphocyte culture (MLC), the serum-induced helper cells are also found to be resistant to the lysis of anti-Thy 1.2 antibody but are radiosensitive. In the latter case, however, removal of T cells abolishes the helper cell generation and only the T cell-enriched fraction provides for the generation of helper cells, indicating that the helper cells for MLC are probably derived from T cells but lose their susceptibility to anti-Thy 1.2 antibody lysis upon culturing in vitro. A study of the mode of action of the helper cells for MLC showed that they are probably needed at a later stage of cytotoxic response for the amplification of the killing efficiency of the T effector cells whereas the helper cells for MLTC are needed in the early induction phase of the immune response. These results indicate that although serum can augment the cytotoxic responses both in the syngeneic and in the allogeneic systems, the mechanism for the augmentation differs: macrophagelike helper cells are responsible for the augmentation of cytotoxic response to tumor associated antigens, whereas augmentation of cytotoxic response to alloantigens appears to be mediated by a subpopulation of T helper cells.
4292542|The autoradiographic investigation of L cells and Chinese hamster cells for the presence of mycoplasmas (A. laidlawii and M. hyorhinis) using uridine/uracil (UdR/U) testing is a rapid and reliable method suitable for the serial checking of even a small number of cells. It depends on a reduced incorporation of [
4292326|Lipid vesicles (liposomes) have recently been shown to be a useful vehicle for the delivery of a variety of compounds to cultured cells. Using large unilamellar vesicles composed of phosphatidylserine [LUV(PS)] we were able to encapsulate poliovirus and purified poliovirus ribonucleic acid (RNA) and show that it can be delivered efficiently to cells in an infectious form. LUV-entrapped poliovirus RNA produced infectious titers 100-fold higher than comparable RNA preparations delivered to cells by other techniques. We have made a quantitative analysis of the uptake and infectivity of the vesicle-encapsulated RNA by using various ratios of RNA copies per vesicle and by determining the percentage uptake of labelled lipid and RNA by HeLa cells.
4292488| Regeneration blastemata of adult newt forelimbs were cultured transfilter to dorsal root ganglia on extremely low porosity (0.05 m) filters. Mitotic index profiles in these blastemata were compared with those obtained using filters of greater porosity (0.45 m). In the above experiments nerves and blastema tissue were separated by 5 or 25 m, i.e., the thickness of the respective filters. The results show that the transfilter mitogenic effect of the nerves was retained when the lower pore size filters were used. In addition, sensory ganglia grown at the bottom of a culture well, separated from the blastema explants by a distance of approximately 2 mm, were nevertheless able to promote blastema cell proliferation. The ganglia can thus be considered to be providing a "sustained conditioning" of the medium with neuromitogenic factor(s). This study also shows that nerves can promote blastema cell mitosis, although cell-to-cell contact between nerves and responding cells was precluded. 
20170287| Cells possess extraordinary powers to organize their molecular processes not only to maintain a cell in a given steady state but also to recognize that state during differentiation. Regulation of these organizational forces appears to be under the control of chemical factors, and a hormonal concept of regulation has evolved. Hormones have been considered to act by reacting with a specific target site. This may be part of their mode of action, but I would like to suggest that a hormone enters and becomes part of a total molecular resonance system. In so doing, the entire molecular system of the cell is modified. Of the known plant hormones, the cytokinins, because of their role in experimentally induced cell division and differentiation, serve as a probe of hormonal involvement in differentiation. Cultured somatic cells of tobacco plants can be induced to undergo differentiation by addition of cytokinin and auxin to the medium. Studies of the cytokinin hormones show a series of diverse molecular involvements. The archetype cytokinin, N-(-isopentenyl) adenosine (iAdo), occurs in some molecular species of tRNA where it plays a vital role in the codon-anticodon interaction of tRNA and m-RNA. iAdo undergoes extensive metabolism in the tobacco tissue. It is either degraded to adenosine or converted to derivatives that possess biological activity. It is perhaps, therefore, more correct to consider the hormone function as being derived from this total metabolic web. The normal somatic cells of tobacco cultures spontaneously change occasionally into an autonomous form that requires no external growth factors. This line of cells synthesizes iAdo. The metabolic web of the hormone-dependent strain can be perturbed by added auxin but such is not the case in the autonomous strain. These data provide some insight into the altered state of cytokinin activity in which a cell line changes into an autonomous form. Curiously, in becoming independent of the requirement for exogenous cytokinin, the autonomous tissue becomes sensitive to added cytokinin. iAdo also inhibits the growth of lines of mammalian cancer cells growth in culture. 
4292836|A variant nontransformed clone, I21, was selected from the spontaneously transformed mouse fibroblast line, IT22. Selection was done by plating IT22 in methylcellulose and picking single cells after 2 d. Cultures derived from these single cells were selected again and one clone, I21, derived from the second round of selection was characterized extensively. I21 and IT22 have the same plating efficiency (PE) on plastic, but in agarose they differ by 1000-fold. In comparison to IT22, I21 has a normal morphological appearance, a lower saturation density, a higher viability in stationary phase, an increased doubling time, an increased chromosome content, and is unable to form tumors in nude mice. I21 has remained remarkably stable in culture and has not reverted to the transformed phenotype for at least 300 generations in culture. Over 100 clones of I21, expanded to 10
20170275| The comparative toxicities of amphotericin B methyl ester (AME), the parent antibiotic amphotericin B (AB), and the deoxycholate solubilized complex of AB, Fungizone (FZ), toward five cell lines has been determined as measured by early membrane damage (Cr release), 24 hr survival, 72 hr viability, and growth rate. Cells used were of turtle (TH-1), marsupial (PT K2), human MA 160), rabbit (RK-13) and hamster (BHK-21) origin. AME: (a) caused less membrane damage at 1 hr than AB or FZ; (b) was less toxic than AB or FZ as indicated by 24 hr cell survival and 72 hr cell viability; and (c) was required in higher levels than AB or FZ to reduce the growth rate of all five cell lines. Spectrophotometric analysis of residual polyene levels indicated that AME had good stability in tissue culture medium. Previous studies have indicated that AME has the same in vitro antifungal activity as the parent antibiotic AB (1, 2). These findings suggest that AME may prove to be superior to AB and FZ for use as an antifungal agent in tissue culture systems. 
20170367|Type II cell enriched fractions were isolated from rabbit and rat lungs using density gradient centrifugation. Cultures established from these fractions contained predominantly cells similar in most morphological respects to type II pneumocytes. These were in continuous replicating culture for 1 year and still exhibited contact inhibition. Membrane-bound structures reminiscent of, but no longer strictly identical to, type II cell lamellar cytosomes were seen in cells from these long-term cultures although their numbers were reduced in comparison to lamellar bodies in freshly isolated cells. Mitochondrial numbers and sizes, determined morphometrically, were reduced after culture in comparison to freshly isolated type II cells and those in situ. Phosphatidylcholine was synthesized by these cells and released into the extracellular medium. Application of laser activated electronic sizing data, confirmed by direct micrometry, demonstrated a significant increase in cell size as a function of culture. This sizing data, after prior confirmation by electron microscopy, was used as an aid in identifying type II cells and macrophages in dispersion, especially with those cells derived from rabbit lungs.
4291563|A combination of biochemical and electron microscopic methods has been utilized to identify viruses present in cell cultures derived from human cancer patients. Two independently established cell lines from breast carcinoma patients have been shown to contain a virus that morphologically appears closely related to the murine mammary tumor virus.
4292418|When a suspension containing a mixture of viable and nonviable cells is layered over a dense ficoll-metrizoate solution and centrifuged, most of the viable cells are retained at the interface above the dense solution; whereas most of the nonviable cells are distributed in other fractions. The cells recovered from the interface are capable of subsequent growth in culture.
4292093| Epithelial cells derived from bovine pancreatic duct have been grown continuously in culture for 30 weeks (approximately 90 doublings of the cell population). The cells were grown in Eagle's minimal essential medium supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum, 2 mM glutamine, 0.1 mM nonessential amino acids, and antibiotics. In confluent cultures, the cells are multilayered and form circular structures. When tested at various passages, the cells neither formed colonies in soft agar nor produced tumors after inoculation into athymic, nude mice. Hydrocortisone (1 and 5 g per ml) and insulin (1,5 and 10 g per ml) had no effect on the growth of the cells. -Retinyl acetate inhibited growth rate and cell yield at a concentration of 5 g per ml but was not growth-inhibitory at lower concentrations. By electron microscopy the cells have numerous mitochondria, Golgi and microvilli. Mucous droplets were observed in a small proportion of the cells. Desmosomelike structures and occluding junctions were observed more frequently between cells that had been transferred as aggregates than between cells transferred as single cells. Cytochemical studies indicated that some cells produce PAS positive granules that were not removed after treatment of the cultures with diastase. Eleven cell clones were isolated from the mass culture. The growth rates of the clones are different as well as the period of time in which the clones can be propagated in vitro. 
4292482|Commercially available glass fiber filters are useful as physical supports for cultures; however, as received from the manufacturers, the filters frequently contain substances that render them unsuitable for some types of experimental studies. These substances contribute to the formation of precipitates in the culture media, alter the media pH, and repress synchronous development among embryo cultures of eastern white pine (Pinus strobus L.). A simplified technique was developed to remove the contaminants and to saturate the cation exchange sites on the glass fibers with specific ions.
4292823|The toxic effects of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) on growth and survival of B104 rat neuroblastoma cells were investigated. Cells in log phase growth were incubated at 37 C with 10 atm O
4292126|Organ cultures of human surgical specimens can be used to investigate glycoprotein production in vitro under conditions in which three-dimensional tissue structures and cell-cell interactions resemble those present in vivo. In this report, an organ-culture system is used to investigate the synthesis, transport and release of glycoprotein by normal and benign hyperplastic human mammary epithelium. Autoradiography of explants pulse-labeled with individual glycoprotein precursors (
4292572|The kinetic parameters for D-glucose uptake were studied in human liver cell cultures under strictly defined experimental conditions. Using a wide concentration range (0.005 to 30 mmol/l), the kinetic data obtained suggested strongly that D-glucose in human liver cell cultures can be transported by two separate systems. For the high-affinity system, the apparent K
4292545|Fibroblasts derived from patients with I-cell disease have been shown to accumulate many natural substrates including a three to fourfold increase in sialic acid content compared to that found in normal fibroblasts. This diverse accumulation of storage material is due to a massive deficiency of multiple lysosomal hydrolases as they are preferentially excreted into the culture fluid. There is evidence that the I-cell plasma membrane itself is abnormal with respect to certain transferase activities and in its sensitivity to freezing and Triton X-100. In this study, we have shown that a neuraminidase-sensitive substrate, and perhaps others in I-cell fibroblasts, contribute to an increased electronegativity of the I-cell fibroblast surface and to the cells' sensitivity to freezing. We also found that neuraminidase treatment of I-cell fibroblasts before preservative freezing in liquid nitrogen enables the cells to adapt more easily to subculture upon thawing.
4292705|The transport of L-histidine has been characterized in skin derived diploid human fibroblasts, cultured under strictly controlled conditions. The transport measurements were made on cells grown to subconfluency after 60 to 90 min timed preincubation. The data, at substrate concentrations ranging from 0.050 to 10 mmol/1, were analyzed by a computer program. A saturable transport system (
4291708|Short ragweed (Ambrosia elatior L.) leaf cells were grown as callus and suspension cultures. Immunodiffusion tests against anti-pollen crude extract and anti-antigen E sera did not detect antigen E in the tissue cultures. However, two allergenically active fractions were isolated from the tissue cultures by ammonium sulfate precipitation, diethylaminoethyl-cellulose and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Two fractions isolated (Sephadex G-100, fractions II and III) were electrophoretically homogeneous, carried net charges similar to that of antigen E in polyacrylamide disc electrophoresis at pH 8.9, and had molecular weights of 10,000 to 15,000 and 30,000 to 40,000, respectively. These fractions were highly skin reactive in individuals sensitive to short ragweed pollen.
4292461|Analysis of a time-lapse film of cultured human mitral valve endothelium containing autochthonous lymphocytes reveals details of a pattern of interaction suggesting a previously undescribed type of cellular surveillance. Highly mobile lymphocytes rapidly approach individual endothelial cells, slowly circumnavigate the nuclear region, and rapidly move away to repeat this behavior on adjacent cells during the 1-month culture period.
4292328|The lecture reviews some aspects of the work on the analysis of malignancy that have been, and are now being, pursued in the Dunn School. A brief outline of the early experiments that first demonstrated that the malignancy of mouse tumor cells can be suppressed by the fusion with normal cells is given, and then two areas of current interest in the laboratory are described. The first is an attempt to analyze the clinically important property of tumors to metastasize and the second is the work on the isolation and identification of an abnormal membrane glycoprotein present in tumor cells. In addition the value of cell fusion methods as a general test of hypotheses of malignancy is emphasized.
4292416| Epithelial cells cultured from bovine pancreatic ducts were given a single treatment of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG). Multinucleated cells and giant cells were observed more frequently in carcinogen-treated cultures than in controls. The MNNG-treated cultures also contained a sizeable population of small, dense cells that were not observed in control cultures. At the concentration of 1.0 g/ml, MNNG caused an initial depression in the growth rate of the cells followed by growth stimulation for several weeks. The MNNG produced chromosomal damage in the cells as indicated by the observation that a substantial proportion of carcinogen-treated cells were heteroploid and contained a high frequency of metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes and a dicentric marker chromosome. The MNNG treated and control cultures did not acquire the ability to grow in soft agar or to produce tumors after transplantation into athymic, nude mice. 
20170512|An established cell line, SW756, derived from a primary squamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix is described by its morphology, ultrastructure, karyotype, genetic signature analysis, HLA typing, and tumorigenesis in the nude mouse. Cultured cells obtained from the SW756 derived nude mouse tumor also were studied for chromosome and isozyme markers. The original tumor was poorly differentiated carcinoma with minimal keratinization and is compared with that occurring in the nude mouse after the cultured cells were inoculated. The nude mouse tumor showed similar histological features, but better differentiation than the original tumor. Karyotype analysis of SW756 demonstrated a hyperdiploid stem line number and several marker chromosomes (MI-M6). No HeLa marker chromosomes were identified. The isozyme pattern for SW756 reported by others has been confirmed. The unique chromosome and isozyme features have been identified repeatedly in the cultured cells and, most importantly, in the post nude mouse culture. We recommend SW756 as a defined human tumorigenic cell line derived from a primary squamous carcinoma of the uterine cervix.
4292602|The maintenance of primary cultures of adult hamster pancreatic cells on layers of irradiated C3H/10T1/2 cells was studied. Various types of pancreatic cells, acinar, islet and ductular cells could be identified in the cultures by light and electron microscopy. Morphologically the various pancreatic cells retained many differentiated characteristics of their respective in vivo cell types. Insulin production was maintained at near Day 1 levels for the 16 d in culture for which it was measured. Colonies of epithelial cells continued to grow during a 20 d culture period. It is believed that this procedure for maintaining functional and growing pancreas cells in culture may be a useful in vitro model for studying the initiation of pancreatic carcinogenesis.
4291941|Colonies of cells of epithelioid appearance were identified in monolayer cultures grown up to 50 days from normal human endometrial cell suspensions obtained by a method designed to insure a maximum harvest of glandular cells. Groups of these cells were separated from stromal cells by means of cloning cylinders. Studies comparing the ultrastructure of cells of this type to fresh endometrial tissue revealed a number of similarities. The morphological characteristics common to both types of samples included junctional complexes, perinuclear microfilaments and microvilli with glycocalyx. Other common features were prominent nucleoli, well developed Golgi, rough endoplasmic reticulum and membrane-bound electron-dense bodies in the cytoplasm. A stripping technique applied to the fetal bovine serum used in the nutrient medium made it possible to initiate cultures in a steroid-free environment and to maintain them in the presence of the specified concentration of estradiol and/or progesterone. Isolation of epithelial cells of endometrium in monolayer culture may provide a useful model system in which to study the specific effects of steroid hormones on cellular function and differentiation.
4292640|Gossypol, a substance extracted from cotton plants, is a potential male contraceptive. Although human users reported only mild or no side effects, our study found gossypol to be cytotoxic to cultured mammalian cells. A dose dependent decrease in the number of viable cells and mitotic index was demonstrated with both Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and human lymphocytes after the cultures received treatment of gossypol for various durations. Cellular DNA, RNA, and protein synthetic activities were reduced in the presence of gossypol. However, gossypol did not seem to induce chromosome breakage or polyploidy.
20170518| Chick embryo epiphyseal chondrocytes cultured in media containing HEPES, TES, and BES zwitterion buffers, used in combination or independently, consistently developed cytoplasmic vacuoles. This cytoplasmic vacuolation was resolved when the zwitterion buffered media was replaced by media containing bicarbonate:CO enriched air buffer. Vacuoles were infrequent or absent in cultures grown in bicarbonate:CO enriched air. Chondrocytes with an established extracellular matrix showed less vacuolation than fibro-blastlike and polygonal shaped cells that lacked such a matrix. The granular endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi dictyosomes of zwitterion buffered chondrocytes were and contained a flocculent amorphous material. Cytoplasmic vacuoles (0.5 to 3.0 M diam) formed by the fusion and intracellular accumulation of Golgi vesicles and vacuoles also contained a flocculent material enhanced by ruthenium red. Membrane bound extracellular vacuoles containing ruthenium red stained proteoglycan aggregates were common in the extracellular matrix of zwitterion buffered cultures but were generally absent from bicarbonate treated cultures. Electron dense calcium deposits seemed much larger and more numerous in the presence of zwitterion buffers. It is suggested that HEPES, TES, and BES buffers, used alone or in combination, may adversely affect cell membrane systems, and thus the transport or secretory mechanisms operative in cultured chondrocytes, or both, resulting in vacuole formation and the intracellular accumulation of synthesized export material. Although the mechanism by which HEPES, TES, and BES induce these changes remains unclear, the use of zwitterion buffers in biological preparations should be treated with caution. 
4292410| Cellulose ester and polycarbonate membrane filters were tested for sterilizing capability with a contaminant, Corynebacterium aquaticum, isolated from cell culture medium. This contaminant, often found in water supplies, routinely passes filters of the polycarbonate type, but not of the cellulose ester type. C. aquaticum grows slowly requiring 7 to 10 days incubation in BME at 37 C before turbidity develops. Cryptic contamination is potentially a serious problem with this organism. 
4292817| The pathophysiology of endothelial cells is important to a variety of vascular conditions including coagulation and hemostasis resulting from clinical frostbite. Use of an in vitro model system demonstrated that when bovine endothelial cells were frozen at 1 C or 20 C/min and thawed immediately (20 C/min), a variety of ultrastructural alterations occurred. Membranous structures were most extensively damaged, with mitochondria the most sensitive organelle. Low amplitude mitochondrial swelling, first evident at 0 C, progressed to high amplitude swelling by -10 C (frozen). In addition, the rough endoplasmic reticulum was dilated and formed large vesicles with a homogeneous matrix. Nuclear changes first occurred at -15 C. These included separation and distortion of the nuclear membrane, changes in chromatin distribution, and disruption of the nucleolus. Scanning electron microscopy revealed perforated plasma membranes in some cells at -10 C (frozen) and in most cells by -20 C. Cultures frozen at 20 C/min revealed mostly the same ultrastructural damage noted at 1 C/min except a higher percentage of cells exhibited alterations. Data from the recovery index and lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) release correlated well with observed ultra structural changes. Early swelling of mitochondria and dilation of rough endoplasmic reticulum was not lethal in the absence of freezing. Increased swelling in cytoplasmic organelles coupled with nuclear alterations at -15 C resulted in a decreased survival rate and release of significant quantities of LDH by -20 C. No unique morphological changes were temperature specific, but the total number of cells that displayed alterations increased as temperature decreased. 
4292394| The preparation of highly purified monolayer cultures of human cytotrophoblast cells essentially free of stromal and syncytial cells is described. Such cells subsequently form multinucleate syncytial cells in vitro. This is accompanied by the synthesis of heat-stable alkaline phosphatase and -HCG. A significant proportion of the multinucleate cells that form in monolayer cultures of early placentae arise as a result of an amitosis. It is suggested that this in vitro behavior may reflect an in vivo process. 
4291677|A series of 13 integrated precepts is used in a system for managing continuous laboratory propagation of poikilothermic vertebrate cell lines. The precepts are listed in sequence of application and discussed.
20170396|The electrophoretic resolution of a group of genetically monomorphic gene-enzyme systems that are developmentally and biologically ubiquitous has been used to provide a species-specific and type-specific biochemical characterization of various cultured cells. The relative mobilities of gene-enzyme systems representing nine distinct gene products from cell cultures of 25 species from Drosophila to man are presented. These isoenzymes effectively discriminate interspecies cell-to-cell contamination and almost invariably serve to identify the contaminating species. The resolution of eight polymorphic gene-enzyme systems in human cell cultures provides a virtually unique allozyme genetic signature as a monitor of intraspecies cellular contamination. The genetic signatures of 47 commonly used human cells are presented. Included in the test were seven putative HeLa (human cervical carcinoma) contaminants each of which expressed a signature identical with that of HeLa. The probability that an unrelated human cell line will have a signature identical to a typed cell is computed for each line from the genotypic frequencies at each locus in a population of cultured human cells. The gene frequencies of this cell population are comparable to the same frequencies in natural human populations. The most common human signature has a frequency (and therefore a probability) of 0.02. The majority of the 17,010 possible signatures are far less probable. A calculation of the theoretical incidence of chance matching of signatures within test groups of two or more individuals is presented. The probability of a chance match between any two randomly selected individuals is 0.004 and among five randomly selected individuals is 0.034. The allozyme genetic signature represents a definite monitor of cell identity and is presented as a standard of cell and tissue identification for a variety of biological studies.
4291764|Methods are described for starting and maintaining callus-tissue cultures of two Malvaceae, okra (Hibiscus esculentus L.) and cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.). Okra callus was slow to initiate, but once started it was easy to maintain, in contrast to cotton, which was difficult to initiate and grow. Different media were required to establish the two species. The inclusion of 5 mg per liter of ascorbic acid aided in reducing the formation of black pigments in cotton callus. Hypocotyls of sterile young okra seedlings and leaves of cotton plants were used to produce the callus tissue. Rapidly growing cell suspensions of okra and cotton were obtained in B5 medium.
4292178|Whole mouse embryos were grown in vitro from Theiler stage 12 (1 to 7 somites) to Theiler stages 15 and 16 (25 to 35 somites). This procedure gives experimental access to precisely staged embryos during the early period of neurogenesis. To follow the further development of neurons in vitro, fragments of spinal primordia were set up from these cultured embryos. In such cultures, the proliferation of precursor cells, the formation of post-mitotic cells and, finally, the cytodifferentiation of neurons were observed.
4292267| Tissue culture methods have been developed for regeneration of normal appearing tobacco plants from bacteria-free crown gall strains incited by Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58, IIBV7, B6, CGIC, A6NC, 27, and AT4. Regenerants fall into two categories depending on the properties of tissues from these plants. The first type of regenerant was obtained from tumors incited by A. tumefaciens C58 and it retained the potential for expression of tumor characteristics such as a nonrequirement for phytohormones (auxin and cyto-kinin) by explants in vitro and the presence of detectable concentrations of nopaline. Normal appearing plants obtained from C58 tumors had much lower concentrations of nopaline than the corresponding tumor tissue (130 versus 1700 g per g dry wt) indicating a parallel repression of abnormal growth and nopaline concentrations in regenerants. The second type of regenerant was obtained from tumors incited by the other A. tumefaciens strains and was characterized by requirements for phytohormones by explants in vitro and the apparent lack of octopine or nopaline in regenerant tissues. 
4291700|A technique is described in which kidneys of 14- and 18-day-old fetal chicks, or hatched chicks, are dissociated either partially or totally into individual cells. In either case the cells are sedimented and subsequently cultured on a three-dimensional substrate. This approach leads to formation of gigantic aggregates, "tissue plates," which undergo excellent histogenesis and remain differentiated for several weeks. Eventually an increase in connective tissue occurs; however, organ specific structures persist in the tissue plates even after 6 weeks of cultivation.
20170334|Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) and tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) activities were determined in rat liver cell lines after frozen storage, long-term culture, and transformation in vitro. Levels of AHH activity after 17 months in frozen storage were comparable to levels prior to freezing. During long-term culture the AHH levels of the cell lines tended to decrease. Transformed lines had variable levels of AHH activity. Cell lines retained measurable TAT activity following long-term culture and frozen storage. TAT activity of transformed cells was comparable to that of normal lines. Prolonged frozen storage did not induce transformation up to one year.
4292361|Lung organ bits taken from full-term mice were explanted on the dermal surface of sterile, dead pigskin. The cells migrated onto the pigskin dermis and proliferated to form an organoid culture consisting of ductular structures separated by a matrix of epithelial cells. Cells within the ductular structures were ciliated, produced mucin, and exhibited the activities of nonspecific esterase and gamma-glutamyl transferase; therefore they were considered to be derived from bronchial epithelium. Cells forming the matrix possessed the activities of nonspecific esterase and alkaline phosphatase and contained lamellar structures typical of surfactant-producing pneumocyte Type II cells; therefore they were considered to be derived from alveolar precursor cells.
4291738|Investigations with human long term lymphoid cell lines have amply demonstrated the versatility of these tissue culture systems for the detection, definition, and solution of current problems in cell biology, biochemistry, genetics, and immunology. These systems are contributing much to our understanding of the multiple functions of lymphoid cells in the immune response. Human lymphoid cell lines produce, in large quantities, the putative extracellular mediators of cell-mediated immunity, including migration inhibitory factor (MIF), lymphotoxin, interferon, and a specific, reversible inhibitor of lymphocyte biosynthetic activity. The MIF released by human lymphoid cell lines is similar to that produced by phytomitogen- or antigen-stimulated human peripheral lymphocytes. Human lymphoid cells from lines producing MIF mimic the capillary migration patterns of guinea pig peritoneal macrophages, and are more sensitive than the guinea pig cells to human MIFs. Studies with these migrating cells indicate that MIF is not solely a lymphoid cell product, but is synthesized by a wide variety of activated cell types. Extracts of cultured human lymphoid cells inhibit the synthesis of UNA, protein, and DNA by established lymphoid cell lines and by phytomitogen-stimulated human peripheral lymphocytes, but have no inhibitory effects on human nonlymphoid cells. The reversible inhibition is produced with physiological quantities of extract, suggesting a functional immunoregulatory activity for this material in lymphocyte-mediated immunological reactions. Initial findings indicate that these mediators are multiple and distinct molecular species. The remarkable proliferative and synthetic potential of human lymphoid cell systems provides a most useful resource for the purification and characterization of these immunological substances.
20170262| This report describes a method for preparing primary cell cultures of differentiated rabbit sternal and human vertebral cartilage cells. These cell cultures were shown to synthesize primarily 1 chains, which is taken to mean that at least 82% of the collagen produced is cartilage specific collagen (type II). 
4292516| The effects of oxidized fat components (free fatty acids from the distillable nonurea adductable fraction) isolated from heated corn oil or heated olive oil on the morphology and growth of heart cells in primary culture were investigated. The free fatty acid fractions isolated from the fresh fats served as controls. Different concentrations of the fat fractions (20, 60, and 100 g/ml) were added to the medium in the form of an emulsion with bovine serum albumin (Fraction V, poor in unesterified fatty acids). In the cell cultures treated with heated fats, intracellular lipid accumulation, increased cytoplasmic vacuolization, mitotic aberrations, pyknotic cells, and decreased mitosis were observed and were more pronounced in the case of the heated olive oil. These cytotoxic effects increased with higher concentrations of heated fats in the medium. The fresh fats also produced intracellular lipid accumulation, reductions in mitosis, and changes in the nucleus and cytoplasm, at the higher levels. These effects were greater in fresh olive oil-treated cultures. These observations indicate that oxidized fat components interfere physically or biochemically with normal cell functions resulting in pathological changes. 
20170316|The incorporation and uptake of (H) thymidine into HeLa cells markedly decreased in the presence of nuclear homogenates and DNA extracts that have been derived from normal diploid cell cultures. On the other hand, uridine uptake and incorporation were stimulated under the same conditions. The inhibition could be reversed immediately upon removal of the exogenous fraction from the culture medium. The inhibitory properties of the extracts are propagated by excreted cellular components as well as after DNAase treatment. The inhibitory factor is thermostable, resistant to pronase treatment, and seems to be related to nucleic acid.
4291584| Glycogen metabolism was studied in human hormone-producing trophoblastic cells (BeWo line). Cells supplemented daily with high glucose (3 g per liter in medium) contained 5.5% glycogen and utilized glucose at an initial rate of 12.2 mmoles per min per mg of protein. In cells supplemented daily with low glucose (1 g per liter), the initial rate of glucose consumption was 23 mmoles per min per mg of protein and the glycogen content reached only 0.4% of wet weight 24 hr after medium replenishment. When glycogen-depleted cultures were refed glucose, an accumulation of glycogen was observed, with initial deposition occurring in areas near the cell surface. After exhaustion of extracellular glucose, cytoplasmic glycogen was utilized at a rate of 2.8 mmoles per min per mg of protein. Addition of either low or high glucose to glycogen-depleted cells resulted in the same rate of glycogen synthesis (approximately 8 mmoles per min per mg of protein). It was suggested that unique regulatory mechanisms function in the control of glycogen metabolism in glycoprotein hormone-producing cytotrophoblastic cells. 
4291575|The fine structure of clone 929-L cells was compared with that of the variant, L
4291818|Although cells can grow throughout a wide range of osmotic pressures, any additional salt beyond that required to meet the minimal level exerts an adverse effect, as evidenced by delay in onset of logarithmic growth, slower growth rate, decreased maximal population, and accelerated death. The toxicity of K
4292041|By using a chemically defined serum-free (SF) medium for propagation of
4292037|A cell culture method is described for the large-scale (50 to 150 l) production of Mason-Pfizer monkey virus and squirrel monkey virus, two primate retroviruses. Virus production was achieved with suspension cultures of chronically infected A204 human rhabdomyosarcoma cells harvested and clarified in the logarithmic stages of cell culture growth. Methods for the subsequent purification and concentration of virus material utilizing zonal centrifugation also are described. Applications of these methodologies resulted in products that afforded biochemical comparisons of these agents in a manner such that host cell-derived variations were minimized. These data indicated that high levels of production and efficient recovery and purification of virus material were achieved.
4292749|Supplementation of tissue culture medium with chicken egg yolk can support the proliferation of low density bovine vascular and corneal endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells maintained on basement lamina-coated dishes. The optimal growth-promoting effect was observed at concentrations of 7.5 to 10% egg yolk (vol/vol). The average doubling time of bovine vascular endothelial cells during their logarithmic growth phase when exposed to egg yolk-supplemented medium was longer than that of their counterparts grown in serum-supplemented medium (21 versus 15 h, respectively). Cultures grown in egg yolk-supplemented medium on basement lamina-coated dishes could be serially passaged, but their in vitro life span (15 generations) was less than that of serum-grown cultures (50 generations). The egg white was devoid of any growth-promoting activity.
4292764| The biological effect of plasma fibronectin on the differentiation of embryonic mouse kidney and tooth was studied in organ cultures. Transferrin (50 g/ml) was a strong mitogen for kidney cells, whereas the addition of soluble fibronectin (50 to 250 g/ml) had no detectable effect on differentiation or proliferation. The same serum-free, transferrin-containing medium did not support tooth differentiation. However, fibronectin was not a necessary serum component because fibronectin-free serum supported tooth development. It was demonstrated with antibodies specific for human fibronectin that the exogenously added human fibronectin at 50 g/ml did not become incorporated to the cultured organs. Only minimal incorporation to the kidney basement membrane area was observed when fibronectin concentration was 250 g/ml. The mesenchymal stroma and the basement membranes of the kidney and tooth rudiments cultured in fibronectin-free media stained intensely with conventional fibronectin antibodies, indicating endogenous production of fibronectin. Outgrowing epithelial cells from isolated kidney tubules produced fibronectin as well as laminin. The results suggest that the fibronectin found in the stroma and basement membranes is an endogenous product of the developing tissues and that plasma fibronectin is not required for in vitro organogenesis. The results also indicate that it is difficult to study the effect of fibronectin on morphogenetic processes because it may not penetrate the organ explants in vitro. 
4291967| An improved method for maintaining adult rat lung in submerged organ culture is described in which the alveoli were inflated with agar and 200-m-thick hand-cut sections were mounted in Rose chambers. The conventional single-compartmented Rose culture chamber was modified by adding a second chamber separated from the first by a gaspermeable membrane. One compartment functioned as an air reservoir and the other housed the explants submerged in nutrient medium. Visking dialysis membrane used underneath the explants prevented cell outgrowth and facilitated the exchange of nutrients and waste products at the glass-tissue interface. Because of the excellent optical properties of the Rose chamber and the thinness of the explants, individual cell types can be identified in the living tissue. The explants were studied with time-lapse cinematography, light microscopy, histology, and with erythrosine B for dye exclusion. With this modified system the functional life span of the explants was increased from 1 week to 1 month. 
4291737|Pieces of adult mouse vagina (comprising epithelium and connective tissue), when explanted onto glass coverslips, gave rise to outgrowing sheets of pure epithelium whose cells had ultrastructural features in common with the cells of origin in vivo. Epithelial outgrowths from vaginas of estradiol-primed and nonprimed ovariectomized mice were studied. After the first 5 days in vitro, in the absence of estradiol, the labeling index and length of the cell cycle were similar in both types of cultures. The values were similar to those reported by others in vivo in response to estrogen. Thus, proliferative activity of cells from nonprimed mice was stimulated merely by in vitro conditions, while proliferation of cells from primed mice continued at the high level existing prior to explantation. The high rate of proliferation was not associated with keratinization of any cells. In the continued absence of estrogen, cells from both kinds of cultures showed a progressive decrease in proliferative activity between 5 and 14 days, also associated with inability of cells to keratinize. Addition of estradiol did not reverse the mitotic drop or promote keratinization. Supplementation with hydrocortisone and insulin had no effect. The results suggest that (a) vaginal epithelial cells in vitro require factors in addition to estradiol in order to maintain a high level of proliferative activity or to differentiate fully by keratinization and (b) keratinization is not dependent on rate of cell proliferation.
4292684| A semiserum-free medium was developed for monolayer culture of rat 3Y1 fibroblastic cells. The main components of the developed medium added to Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) were insulin, transferrin, epidermal growth factor, poly-Dlysine, bovine albumin, oleic acid, and bovine -globulin. In this medium, 3Y1 cells grew in mass culture at much the same rate as in DMEM supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), and colonies, albeit of smaller sizes, did form. Virally transformed derivatives of 3Y1 (simian virus 40-3Y1, polyoma virus-3Y1 and adenovirus type 12-3Y1) also formed colonies in the semiserum-free medium. When trypsinized 3Y1 cells were seeded with the medium lacking -globulin, neither growth in the mass culture nor clonal growth in the low density culture (clonal growth) occurred. In this case, cell spreading was inhibited by albumin, and this inhibition was overcome by adding -globulin or treating dishes with serum. When albumin was excluded from the semiserum-free medium, clonal growth did not occur, whereas growth in mass culture and stimulation of DNA synthesis in the resting mass culture (stimulation of DNA synthesis) were not so drastically affected. When oleic acid was removed, growth in mass culture was inhibited considerably, but no considerable effect was seen on clonal growth or on stimulation of DNA synthesis. In the absence of insulin, stimulation of DNA synthesis was inhibited more markedly than when other components were removed, but such was not the case with growth in mass culture and clonal growth. 
4291725|The requirements for, or the utilization of, vitamins, sugars, amino acids, and lipids, as determined with established insect cell lines, are reviewed. Also discussed is the importance of inorganic salt balance and osmotic pressure. Nutrient requirements, as determined in experiments with established cells, are compared to media formulations based on the analysis of insect hemolymphs and to the dietary requirements of insects. It is suggested that culture media formulated in strict agreement with hemolymph analysis may be unnecessarily complex and do not ensure maximum growth.
4292828|Swine tracheal epithelium has been cultured as explants in a chemically defined medium for periods of up to 2 wk. The viability of the explants was shown by the preservation of the ultrastructural features of cells in the epithelial layer and by the active incorporation of radioactive glucosamine and sulfate into secreted mucin glycoproteins. The rate of secretion of mucin glycoprotein was about
4292489|The 3T3 cells were treated with
20170291|A device for holding tissue culture tubes, plates and flasks has been designed for use in microscopy of cell cultures, which eliminates changing holders when using varied types or sizes of vessel.
4292881| Parenchymal hepatocytes from neonatal rats were isolated, cultured about 24 h, exposed to cadmium with or without calcium, and processed for scanning electron microscopy. To assess the severity of cadmium-induced changes, exposed hepatocytes were categorized based upon the extent of morphological damage. Differences in surface blebbing, alterations in microvilli, variations in the degree of swelling, and changes in cell shape were used to categorize the severity of cell damage. A double-blind morphometric analysis (a geometricostatistical processing of two-dimensional data for the collection of three-dimensional information) of cellular changes was conducted for each exposure time and for each concentration of cadmium in the presence or absence of calcium. Significant decreases occurred in the percent relative volume of normal, flattened cells present in cultures exposed for 30 min to 50 or 100 M cadmium in the absence of calcium. In contrast, the percent relative volume of severely damaged spherical cells was significantly increased after exposure to solutions containing 50 or 100 M cadmium and lacking calcium. Percent relative volume of intermediate cells (which were slightly swollen and showed changes in microvillar number) was significantly increased following a 30 min exposure to all cadmium concentrations in the absence of calcium. The examination of hepatocytes exposed for 60 min showed that the degree of cadmium-induced cytotoxicity was more severe in the absence of calcium than was the case for the hepatocyte cultures exposed for 30 min: approximately 30% more spherical cells and 30% fewer flattened cells were present if cultures were exposed in the absence f calcium for 60 min compared to those exposed for 30 min. The degree of blebbing was significantly greater at all cadmium concentrations in the absence of calcium. The presence of calcium, therefore, reduced cadmium-induced cytotoxicity in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes subjected to morphometric analysis after scanning electron microscopy. 
4292204|Exogenous cyclic AMP and dibutyryl cyclic AMP decreased the relative ciliary activity values of tracheal organ cultures. In contrast, theophylline and cholera toxin were not ciliostatic. The use of a radioimmunoassay for cyclic AMP indicated that all of the tested substances increased intracellular cyclic AMP levels to some extent (from 3-fold for cholera toxin to almost 40-fold for dibutyryl cyclic AMP). Physical inactivation of explants by either freeze-thaw or heat destroyed all ciliary activity and greatly decreased intracellular cyclic AMP levels. Cyclic AMP levels of explants remained relatively constant during in vitro cultivation. Three strains of Mycoplasma pneumoniae were found to contain extremely low amounts of cyclic AMP. Infection of tracheal explants produced a significant decrease in relative ciliary activity, but only a slight decline in organ-culture cyclic AMP levels.
4292181| A new fibroblast-like cell line, CyN, has been developed from muscle tissue of the marine fish Cynoscion nebulosus (the spotted weakfish). A subline, CyN-1, was characterized fully and carried through 100 subcultures. CyN-1 is heteroploid and has a modal chromosome number of 49. The line is susceptible to LT-1, lymphocystis, eastern equine encephalitis and vesicular stomatitis viruses. Optimal growth occurred at 25 to 34 C in growth medium adjusted to 0.150 m NaCl. 
4292066|Detection of bacteriophage contamination of tissue culture sera by direct plating has been compared with detection methods based on batch enrichment and on the Poisson distribution (PD plating). Batch enrichment is extremely sensitive for detecting the presence of phage contamination. PD plating combines sensitivity with isolation of each contaminating phage in pure culture. Both batch enrichment and PD plating are more sensitive than direct plating. Neither method requires highly trained personnel or specialized equipment.
20170505| The NMuMG cell line derived from normal mouse mammary epithelial cells was tested for responsiveness to hormones. The hormones studied included insulin, glucocorticoids (cortisol and dexamethasone), and prolactin. In addition to membrane bound insulin receptors and prolactin receptors, the cells had 2  10 cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptors per cell. Morphological changes were observed in response to hormones. Clusters of cells appeared with greatly increased diameter, and the number of cells per plate was reduced. The rate of DNA synthesis, corrected by cell number, indicates that cell division, and hence cell turnover, was increased by the combination of all three hormones. Insulin greatly enhanced protein synthesis, but glucocorticoid and prolactin did not further increase the rate. The combination of the three hormones produced a change in the synthesis of histones, consistent with the increase in cell turnover. There were substantial responses of enzyme activities to hormonal treatment of the cells. Insulin by itself induced a doubling of the activity of glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase and perhaps a modest increase in NADH-cytochrome c reductase. Lactose synthetase activity showed a three- to fourfold induction of both A and B subunits of the enzyme when the cells were treated with insulin, glucocorticoid, and prolactin, and the effect of the latter two hormones was shown to be additional to that of insulin. 
4292170|The effects of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and testosterone in rat Sertoli cells were investigated in vitro by means of isolated cell populations. The Sertoli cells selectively bind FSH, and respond to FSH stimulation with increased accumulation of endogenous cyclic AMP and secretion of androgen-binding protein (ABP). FSH binding and cyclic AMP response in the Sertoli cells change dramatically during sexual maturation. Cyclic AMP response decreases despite an increase in FSH-binding receptors per cell. Evidence has been provided for the existence of cytoplasmic and nuclear androgen receptors and chromatin acceptor-sites that specifically bind the androgen-receptor complex in the Sertoli cells. A model has been proposed for the hormonal interactions in the seminiferous tubule and the possible role of Sertoli cells in mediating the hormonal effects on spermatogenesis.
4292197|Wounds of the external ear of the rat created by suction were carried in vitro up to 48 hr, and the growth of epidermal cells was observed by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Epidermal cells migrated on the intact basal lamina taking origin from the surrounding uninjured epidermis and from the external root sheaths of hair follicles. The time required to form a confluent layer of cells was much shorter than that observed earlier in intact blisters under in vivo conditions. This model offers promise for the further study of the migration of epithelial cells.
20170455| The pathogenesis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa for the respiratory tract has been examined using hamster tracheal organ cultures. Tracheal rings prepared from male Syrian hamsters, strain LSH/LAK, were infected with P. aeruginosa for 4 h and processed at 4-h intervals for 24 h for examination by light- and electron microscopy. Tissue destruction was observed within 8 h after infection with 10 colony-forming units (cfu)/ml and within 12 h after infection with 10 or 10 cfu/ml. Ciliated cells that contained abnormal subcellular organelles were expelled from the epithelium. By 20 h the epithelial borders were composed primarily of nonciliated cells. Transmission- and scanning electron microscopy revealed details of the cellular destruction and attachment of P. aeruginosa to the ciliated epithelium. Pseudomonas aeruginosa causes a rapid destruction of the epithelium of hamster trachea in cultures. Hamster tracheal organ cultures have been shown to be useful in studying the pathogenesis of P. aeruginosa for the respiratory tract. 
4292384|Liposomes, artificial lipid vesicles, have been used to induce the uptake of isolated spinach chloroplasts into protoplasts of both Neurospora crassa and Datura innoxia. Chloroplasts showed high oxygen evolution rates preceding uptake and for extended periods of time after uptake. Survival, as measured by pigment retention and oxygen evolution, was much improved over polyethylene glycol induce uptake. Possible future application of liposome-mediated uptake in plant protoplast studies are discussed.
4292236|Culture conditions for maintaining first trimester human placenta in organ culture, which enhance the secretion of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), are described. Nutrient medium, oxygen tension and Gelfoam support matrix influence the synthesis of hCG by these cultures. Placental tissue remained viable for the duration of experiments (12 days) as judged by the incorporation of tritiated thymidine into DNA and the lack of release of incorporated
4292195| The effects of -radiation on growth and morphogenesis of Haworthia callus in vitro were determined. The doses ranged from 100 to 5000 rads. Survival, growth pattern, growth rate, and differentiation of vegetative buds and roots in both irradiated and nonir-radiated callus were compared. Growth data up to 24 weeks for irradiated and control cultures were analyzed. The dose range between 800 to 2500 rads produced compact callus as compared to the controls which were friable. After 12 weeks all control cultures differentiated vegetative buds with roots, whereas callus exposed to 800 to 2500 rads continued to grow with little or no organogenesis. However, it was observed that the wet and dry weights of callus receiving 1000 to 1500 rads ultimately exceeded those of nonirradiated controls. 
4292275| Econazole, an imidazole derivative, was tested as an antifungal agent in different cell culture systems. In comparison with Fungizone, Econazole has the following advantageous properties: higher stability, higher solubility, better antifungal activity against contaminants of cell cultures and a wider range between minimal inhibitory to cytotoxic concentration with Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans and Penicillium sp., activity against gram-positive bacteria and lower price. Econazole exerts no antiviral effect and can therefore be used for virus isolation from heavily contaminated material. The antagonistic effect of serum on the antifungal effect of Econazole and Fungizone was comparable as was the inhibitory effect of both antimycotics on Mycoplasma growth. In view of the above mentioned properties Econazole lactic acid can be recommended as an antifungal agent for cell culture systems at a concentration of 1 g per ml. 
4291936|Dissociated normal mammary epithelial cells from prelactating mice were plated on different substrates in various medium-serum-hormone combinations to find conditions that would permit maintenance of morphological differentiation. Cells cultured on floating collagen membranes in medium containing insulin, hydrocortisone and prolactin maintain differentiation through 1 month in culture. The surface cells form a continuous epithelial pavement. Some epithelial cells below the surface layer rearrange themselves to form alveolus-like structures. Cells at both sites display surface polarization; microvilli and tight junctions are present at their medium-facing or luminal surface and a basal lamina separates the epithelial components from the gel and stromal cells. Occasional myoepithelial cells, characterized by myofilaments and plasmalemmal vesicles, are identified at the basal surface of the secretory epithelium. In contrast, cells cultured on plastic, glass or collagen gels attached to Petri dishes form a confluent epithelial sheet showing surface polarization, but lose secretory and myoepithelial specializations. If these dedifferentiated cells are subsequently maintained on floating collagen membranes, they redifferentiate. There is little DNA synthesis in cells on collagen gels, in contrast to Petri-dish controls. Protein synthesis in cells on floating collagen membranes increases over T
4292857|In vitro growth of rat atriocaval epithelial tumor cells (ACT-1) was enhanced by the inclusion of xenogeneic mouse adherent peritoneal exudate cells (PECs) in a two-layer soft agar system. A linear relationship was found between the number of cells plated and the number of colonies when ACT-1 tumor cells were plated at plating densities of between 1 and 5  10
20170509|The effect of low dose UV irradiation on the reinitiation of proliferative activity and on the life span of human diploid fibroblast-like cells is described. Cells were exposed to UV at confluence or after maintenance in an arrested state. Cell division was stimulated immediately after UV irradiation or after an additional post-UV incubation period. Arrested populations of all in vitro ages exhibited a greater sensitivity to UV and the reinitiation of proliferation was enhanced by post-UV incubation before stimulation. Ultraviolet light had no effect on life span regardless of in vitro cell age, culture state at the time of exposure, or the presence of a postirradiation period of arrest.
4291561|This paper describes some current work pertaining to transformation of cells by oncogenic viruses. Part I includes: (1) the effect of a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) tumor virus (SV40) on the antigenic characteristics of transformed hamster cells; (2) in vitro and in vivo methods of detecting virus-specific surface antigens; (3) the role that the host cell may play in the expression of virus-coded antigens; and (4) the presence of virus-induced antigens as a possible mechanism of the apparent nononcogenicity of certain virus variants. Part II discusses (1) the physicochemical properties of the nucleic acid of a ribonucleic acid (RNA) tumor virus-the Moloney sarcoma-leukemia virus (MSV-MLV) complex-(2) a preliminary analysis of viral RNA replication in cells transformed by MSV-MLV, and (3) application to human tumors.
4292401| From the fibroblastic cells of murine mammary tumor tissue we isolated a clonal cell line that could be induced to differentiate into fat-accumulating cells in vitro. Differentiation began after the cultures had reached confluence and was accompanied by (a) an increase in the incorporation of sodium acetate into the triglyceride (TG) fraction of cellular lipids, (b) a more than 50-fold increase in cellular TG content per milligram cell-layer protein basis and (c) the cessation of cellular DNA synthesis. The addition of insulin to the culture medium enhanced lipid accumulation and increased the fraction of cells that differentiated into adipocytes. When insulin (5 to 10 g/ml) was added exogenously, 80% or more of the cells were induced to differentiate into mature adipocytes within 2 weeks. This cell line can be used as a model for mammalian cell differentiation and also as a convenient material for the study of lipid metabolism in adipocytes. 
4292086|Cells from neonatal rat livers were unable to maintain DNA-synthetic activity in calcium-deficient medium, but neoplastic hepatocytes from Morris hepatomas 5123 tc and 7795 synthesized DNA and proliferated indefinitely in this calcium-deficient medium. The calcium content of fresh hepatoma tissue from which these cultures were derived was as much as 10 times greater than that of normal liver; but this difference could not account for the insensitivity of neoplastic cells to extracellular calcium because it disappeared during subsequent cultivation in vitro.
20170306|A technique was investigated for producing parasynchronous growth of some established, aneuploid human cell strains. Removal of both serum and calcium from exponentially growing monolayer cells tended to inhibit their growth. After 20 hr, a high percentage of the cell population was arrested in or near mitosis. Readdition of serum and calcium caused parasynchronous growth of the cells of three human strains studied. All three strains incorporated tritiated thymidine maximally 10 to 15 hr after serum and calcium were added, and cell numbers increased rapidly 17 to 25 hr after the growth medium was reconstituted. Population-doubling ranged from 80% to 100% of the theoretical. The yield of parasynchronous cells is high with this technique and may produce a significant amount of nontemporally distorted biological material upon which direct biochemical analysis can be performed at varius times within the generation cycle.
4292350|A proposal is made to extend the commitment theory of cellular aging to the process of tumorigenesis. Indirect data are cited in support of a scheme whereby human tumors arise from a small number of unique cells which are termed "uncommitted." The process of tumorigenesis as described is both multistep and reversible.
4292397|Extracellular cysteine concentrations between 0.5 and 2.5 mM resulted in death of normal but not cystinotic cells grown in Eagle's minimal essential medium containing supplemental fetal bovine serum and antibiotics. Differential cell survival was determined by viable cell counting using Trypan Blue dye exclusion. In cocultivation experiments of
4292848|Endothelial and smooth-muscle cells from bovine mesenteric lymphatic vessels have been collected and cultured in vitro. The endothelial cells grew as a monolayer exhibiting a "cobblestone" appearance with individual cells tending to be more flattened at confluence than their blood vascular counterparts. Approximately 30% of these cells expressed Factor VIII antigen compared with bovine mesenteric artery or human umbilical-vein endothelium in which the majority of cells were positive. The lymphatic smooth-muscle cells exhibited focal areas of multilayering and were Factor VIII negative. The availability of lymphatic endothelial and smooth-muscle cells in culture will provide a new tool for the investigation of the biological properties of the lymphatic vessels and their role in homeostasis.
4291674|Primary monolayer cell cultures of trypsin-dispersed adult rat adenohypophyses are capable of synthetizing deoxyribonucleic acid and are able to divide at least for 3 weeks. Most cells contain secretory granules in the absence of hypothalamic extracts. It seems possible that granules are formed which mature and are released in vitro.
4291781|Cultures of 10-day-old chick embryo fibroblasts were examined for possible side effects in the presence of amphotericin B-deoxycholate and nystatin. It was found that the recommended dose of amphotericin B-deoxycholate reduced the cell number, altered the transport of small molecules, and decreased DNA synthesis. These effects could be increased by larger doses of amphotericin B. There were no comparable side effects in the presence of the recommended dose of nystatin and only minor side effects at higher doses.
20170394|Short incubation of heparinized human leukemic bone-marrow cells in phosphate buffered saline containing colcemid and overnight chilling of fixed cells yields metaphases with elongated and well-spread chromosomes. This technique enables us to do trypsin-Giemsa banding of chromosomes obtained from leukemic marrow cells otherwise difficult to band.
4292875|We report here that the use of murine thymoma cell EL-4 conditioned medium enhances hybridoma yield in a low-antigen dose in vitro immunization protocol. This improved protocol allowed the production of a panel of monoclonal antibodies to Drosophila yolk proteins using less than 1 nanomole of antigen. We believe this refinement will be valuable for the application of hybridoma technology to biologically active materials that are hard to isolate and purify due to their low concentration in the biological fluids.
4291905|Ovaries of the viviparous pedogenetic gall midge Heteropeza pygmaea can be cultured in hemolymph obtained from X-ray-sterilized larvae of the same species. In this culture medium, formation of follicles is essentially the same as in vivo, and sometimes female larvae develop from these follicles. The ovaries of such larvae, in their turn, have been cultured in vitro to produce larvae. In this way, in vitro development from oogonium to larva has been maintained for several generations. When using hemolymph obtained from larvae grown under different conditions, the in vitro cultured ovaries produce a second type of egg which probably is male-determined. Ovarian development in vitro has been studied with differential interference contrast optics and time-lapse cinemicrography.
4292856|The Mishell-Dutton culture system for in vitro primary antibody response of mouse spleen cells was used to optimize the amino acid composition of RPMI 1640 media. Each of the 20 amino acids was tested over a broad range of concentrations always leaving the remaining 19 amino acids unaltered (i.e. at the formula recommended concentration). In several instances, higher plaque-forming cell responses were obtained with an amino acid concentration that was either higher or lower than that recommended: (a) the optimum concentration for valine, glutamine, and lysine lies considerably above the recommended one, (b) the optimum concentration for leucine as well as for several other amino acids lies below the recommended concentration, and (c) the optimum concentration for arginine corresponds exactly to the recommended concentration. The second round of optimization, i.e. combining of two conditions that individually yielded an improved response often caused a decrease of response. The possibility is discussed that for an optimal response a ratio of two or several amino acids rather than the absolute concentration of any one amino acid is of importance.
4292726|Twenty-five cell cultures of three insect orders from eight laboratories were tested for mycoplasmal infection. Acholeplasma laidlawii was detected in one culture, an incidence of 4.0%. A. laidlawii, Mycoplasma orale, M. arginini, but not M. hyorhinis, could establish infections of drosophila Dm-1 cell cultures at 25 C. In prospective studies, drosophila Dm-1 cultures were intentionally infected with broth-propagated A. laidlawii and M. hyorhinis. M. hyorhinis did not grow and was eliminated from the Dm-1 cultures during consecutive passages. A. laidlawii grew without obvious cytopathic effects during six weekly passages; titers of over
20170312|An ultrastructural study was carried out on 25 lymphocyte-trapping cells selected from tissue cultures of human axillary lymph nodes. The trapping cells contained several hundred intravacuolar lymphocytes, most of which showed degenerative changes. The principal findings are: (a) a broad spectrum of lymphocyte degeneration; (b) a consistent pattern of lymphocyte degeneration beginning with perinuclear vacuoles and ending with breakdown of the nuclear envelope; (c) the viable lymphocytes tended to be located in a juxtanuclear region; (d) a lysosomal relationship was suggested for lymphocyte degeneration but not for lymphocyte trapping; and (e) degeneration of the trapping cell, or lymphocytes associated with other cells, was not observed. The sequence of degenerative changes differs from those reported for several classes of lymphocytocidal agents. There were no morphologic properties of the trapping cell which served to identify it more specifically. The findings, together with previous time-lapse film observations, warrant further investigation of the hypothesis that lymphocytocidal lymphocyte trapping may be involved in the control of lymphocyte populations.
20170337|Monolayer cultures of 12-day embryonic chick skeletal muscle were prepared from cells dissociated with crude trypsin (Difco 1:250) and by a mechanical method that utilizes shearing forces obtained in a vortex of flowing medium. For each technique, experiments were performed in which the feeding schedule and density of cells planted were varied. Culture growth was observed microscopically and with time-lapse cinematography. Regardless of the parameter varied, the time of onset of fusion and the extent of myotube formation were greatly improved in cultures initiated with the vortex-dis-sociated muscle cells.
4292443| Fifteen organic acids were examined for their abilities to support the growth and anthocyanin accumulation by suspension cultures of wild carrot (Daucus carota L.) using ammonium as the sole nitrogen source. Glutarate, adipate, pimelate, azelate, cinnamate, and phthalate were toxic to the culture. They prevented growth and anthocyanin accumulation at 5 mM or less in media that were otherwise adequate for growth. Succinate, fumarate, malate, -ketoglutarate, glutamate, maleate, malonate, tartarate, and citrate all supported growth and anthocyanin accumulation but in varying amounts. The growth achieved in medium containing 20 mM acid was higher at an initial pH of 5.5 than at an initial pH of 4.5. The growth achieved was dependent on the organic acid used, its concentration, and the initial pH of the medium. When growth occurred the final pH was higher than the initial pH with most of the acids. Anthocyanin accumulation was greatest with succinate at 14 to 20 mM at an initial pH of 4.2 or 4.3 and declined when the initial pH was above 4.3. 
4291825|Suspensions of bone marrow cells from the beige (bg/bg) mouse, a homologue of the Chediak-Higashi syndrome (C-HS) of man, and normal mouse bone marrow cells, when stimulated by colony-stimulating factor (CSF) from different sources, proliferate in semisolid agar cultures and produce colonies composed of granulocytic and/or mononuclear cells. Studies with CSF from various sources (embryo and kidney feeder monolayers, conditioned media from embryo and kidney cell cultures, and plasma from untreated, irradiated, or endotoxin-treated mice) indicated that bone marrow cells from the beige mouse are quantitatively as capable of developing into colonies as normal cells when incubated with the same CSF source. Experiments which compared the bone marrow colony response of beige and normal cells using postendotoxin plasma (PEP) as the CSF source indicated that beige cells were stimulated to the same extent by CSF obtained from either the normal or the beige mouse. CSF obtained from normal or affected mice was equally effective in stimulating bone marrow cell proliferation. There was no discordance of colony cell types present when PEP-stimulated 8-day bone marrow colonies from normal and affected mice were compared. The nuclear morphology of beige and normal granulocytes from these cultures indicated cells ranging from myeloblasts to mature segmented polymorphonuclear leukocytes. These preliminary studies indicate that the agar culture method for the growth of mononuclear and granulocytic colonies may provide a method for obtaining enriched C-HS cell populations for biochemical analysis of the genetic defect(s) in this interesting disease.
4292222| Three commercially available tissue-culture media were evaluated for their ability to support continued growth and differentiation of 14-day regenerates of adult newt forelimbs. Serums, embryo extracts, egg ultrafiltrates, and antimicrobial agents were avoided in this analysis. The hormones insulin and L-thyroxine were added to these chemically defined media to enhance continued cellular metabolism and growth. The optimum conditions appeared to be cultivation at 25 C (pH 7.2 to 7.4) in media osmotically adjusted to conditions approximating amphibian blood values (i.e. 225 m0SM for 199, 244 m0SM for CMRL-1066, and 262m0SM for L-15). 
4292863|In a study of a diverse set of human tumor cell lines previously shown to all have a defect in methionine metabolism (Stern, P. H., Wallace, C. D. and Hoffman, R. M., J. Cellular Physiology 119, 29-34, 1984), we demonstrate in this report that all have enhanced overall rates of transmethylation compared to normal human fibroblasts. Transmethylation rates were measured by blocking S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase and measuring the AdoHcy which accumulates as a result of transmethylation. The enhanced transmethylation rates may be the basis of the above-mentioned defects in methionine metabolism previously reported in human tumor cells, including the basis of the inability of the majority of the tumor cells to grow when methionine is replaced by homocysteine. The excess and unbalanced tRNA methylation observed for the last 25 years in many types of cancer may be at least in part explained by our results of elevated rates of overall transmethylation in cancer cells. The alteration of such a fundamental process as transmethylation in cancer may be indicative of its importance in the oncogenic process.
4292895|Primary and passaged cultures of normal colon epithelial cells, derived from human fetuses (13 to 17 wk of conceptual age) have been established. These cultures have been passaged 16 times thus far. The cultures have been initiated and maintained in medium consisting of 50% Dulbecco's minimum essential medium and 50% Ham's F12 medium and supplemented with antibiotics (penicillin, 100 U/ml; streptomycin,
4292747|A modification of an established procedure for autoradiographic processing of cultured cells is described. This method eliminates the need for pipetting each individual well and also for cutting and dismantling the multiwell plate for slide preparation. In this procedure the entire plate can be processed as a single unit and the cells can be analyzed in situ, thus eliminating the time consuming pipetting and cutting procedures. Furthermore, the entire experiment can be filed without use of additional slides or storage boxes. Hence, this is a simpler, time conserving, and economical way to process large numbers of cultures for thymidine labeling indices.
20170325|The gas phase developed above spinach suspension cultures critically affected their growth and greening. Ethylene accumulation inhibited greening; this effect of ethylene was antagonised when the culture gas phase was enriched with carbon dioxide. Greening was enhanced by reducing the partial pressure of oxygen below the air level; this effect was observed when oxygen supply did not restrict growth.
4291826|When malignant W-256 rat breast carcinosarcoma cells are mixed with an equal number of normal adult rat liver fibroblasts and allowed to grow in a medium containing sufficient L-methionine and an excess of vitamin B
4292223|The earliest histological event observed in light-grown shoot-forming tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Wisconsin 38) callus was the deposition of safranin-stainable substances (probably suberin) on cut, exposed cell surfaces. This was followed by the initiation of cell files and the appearance of starch granules. Nodules with lignified tracheary elements also were observed in the upper part of the callus. Pronounced starch accumulation occurred in the lower part of the callus in which protrusions of tissue into the medium occurred. Meristemoids were found in these protrusions as well as elsewhere. In between meristemoids, parenchyma cells with starch granules of varying sizes were observed. Cell strands that connected with the meristemoids also were observed. These strands often terminated at the surface of the protrusions at which point shoot apices originated. The earliest shoots were formed in these protrusions. With time, additional shoots were formed in other parts of the bottom of the callus and finally in the top part of the callus on prolonged culture. The determination of the loci at which shoot primordia were formed sequentially was interpreted in relation to the physiological gradient concept.
4292048|Mosquito cell cultures were initiated from the minced tissues of newly hatched Aedes dorsalis (Meigen) larvae. Continuous cell division occurred only after an adaptive period of approximately 6 months. Optimal growth of the cells required a relatively low pH of 6.5. Karyological studies showed that the cells have remained diploid (2n = 6) for 60 serial passages and that the cultures are free of contaminating cells. The cultures also were shown to be free of bacteria (including Mycoplasma), fungi and virions. Subpopulations (strains) of the original parental cultures have been selected and characterized on the basis of morphology, karyology, growth rate and monolayer formation.
4291731|Establishment of a new bovine cell line, AU-BEK, is reported. The cell line developed in a culture initiated from bovine embryonic kidneys by spontaneous cultural alteration to epithelioid cells that are indefinitely propagable. Epithelioid cells gradually increased to become the predominant cell. Whereas normal bovine cells have a diploid number of 60 chromosomes, of which only the two sex chromosomes are biarmed, AU-BEK cells at the 80th passage had a modal chromosome number of 84 and an average of 30 biarmed chromosomes per cell. AU-BEK cells are now in their 220th passage. Of the AU-BEK, MDBK, and CKT-1 bovine cell lines, the CKT-1 cell line had a karyotype closest to that of normal bovine cells. Their modal chromosome number was 57, and only three biarmed chromosomes were usually present. The bovine character of AU-BEK and CKT-1 cells was established by cytotoxic and viral susceptibility tests.
4292606|A defined medium has been developed for primary culture of cells from human umbilical vein that will support maximal levels of cell division. The role of medium components in regulating the amount of thymidine incorporation has been assessed; insulin and to a lesser extent fibroblast growth factor (FGF) both increased the rate of incorporation when hydrocortisone (HC) was present in the medium. Although these hormones in nonserum medium can stimulate incorporation, plating and maintenance of cells in serum medium for 12 h is necessary before transfer to defined medium. Without serum for this period, cells placed in defined medium, though well attached, did not divide. From the pulse:chase experiments it appears that more than one round of replication was supported by the 12-h period in serum. The role of various agents in regulating cell adhesion also was assessed. Factors present in serum but not in platelets appear active. Cold insoluble globulin (CIG) is an active serum component inasmuch as it caused adherence when added to defined medium. However, other serum components were highly effective in promoting adhesion in the absence of CIG. Insulin also induced adhesion in nonserum medium though to a smaller extent; its effect was enhanced by plating cells on collagen. Hydrocortisone potentiated the effect of insulin and caused enhanced cell spreading in serum or CIG containing medium but not other medium. All well-spread cells were capable of fibronectin (FN) synthesis whether in serum or nonserum medium. Neither insulin nor HC stimulated fibronectin synthesis.
4292176|A total of 6432 cell cultures was assayed for mycoplasmas over a 6-year period by aerobic and anaerobic incubation of agar and broth media. Mycoplasmas were detected in 375 cultures (5.8%). M. orale and A. laidlawii accounted for 61.3% of the isolates. Anaerobic incubation detected 98.1% of the isolates; aerobic incubation detected 45.8%. Of factors studied to determine their effect on mycoplasma assay, only two, anaerobic incubation and presence of mycoplasmacidal/static antibiotics, were significant. In separate studies, 86 of 2656 cell cultures (3.2%) were infected with strains of M. hyorhinis that did not grow on cell-free media. Recommendations are given for microbiological assay of cell-culture mycoplasmas.
4292502|The characteristics of Cell Line LM-1, established from a human osteosarcoma, have been studied extensively. The cell produced both bone-specific and placental-like alkaline phosphatases when treated with hydrocortisone 21-phosphate; they had specific membrane antigens that reacted with sera from osteosarcoma patients. Injection of LM-1 cells into newborn hamsters treated with antilymphocyte serum produced nodular tumors. The characteristics of LM-1 suggest that this tumor cell line has unique features that may be useful in a variety of studies of human and animal osteosarcoma.
4292279| Chicken embryo retinal pigment cells cultured for 2 weeks in 1 or 10 M BrdU accumulate only 25% of the amount of melanin found in controls. Growth is inhibited by 10 M BrdU but not by 1 M BrdU. Cells cultured with BrdU had decreased tyrosinase activity and lost the typical epithelial appearance of controls. Equimolar concentrations of deoxythymidine did not prevent the inhibition of melanogenesis due to BrdU but did prevent the growth inhibition of the higher concentration of BrdU (10 M). Tenfold higher concentrations of deoxythymidine prevented inhibition of epithelial differentiation and melanogenesis. Ultrastructurally, BrdU produced an absence of melanosomes and disruption of the lamellar array of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The perinuclear arrangement of microfilaments became irregular. The cell surface was radically affected as membranes were no longer ruffled and cell junctions disappeared. Melanogenesis is a complex form of differentiated function, involving synthesis of tyrosinase and control of its activity, macromolecular synthesis of the melanosome, and the subsequent synthesis of melanin within the melanosome. BrdU appears to inhibit melanogenesis through a coordinated and simultaneous interference with these processes, suggesting that there may be a "program" of gene activity for melanogenesis that is regulated as a unit. 
20170266|Human diploid fibroblasts can be maintained in vitro in an arrested, essentially nonmitotic state for extended periods of time by reducing the serum concentration in the medium from 10 to 0.5%. Arrested cells can be induced to re-enter the proliferative state by subcultivation in medium containing 10% serum. Fine structure, acid phosphatase, cytochrome oxidase, and extracellular carbohydrates in arrested cells were examined and compared to cultures growing in 10% serum and to cells transferred to 10% serum after 21 days in 0.5% serum. Cells in 10% serum possessed a well-developed Golgi complex, extensive rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria containing transverse cristae, and many free ribosomes in the cytoplasm. In arrested cells, Golgi complexes were rarely observed, the number of both free and membrane-bound ribosomes was reduced, the number of cristae per mitochondrion was decreased and the amount of demonstrable cytochrome oxidase activity was diminished. There was an accumulation of intercellular carbohydrate components. After subcultivation with medium containing 10% serum, arrested cells regained the ultrastructural characteristics of cells continuously cultured at this serum level; however, the amount of intercellular carbohydrate remained elevated. These results indicate that distinct yet reversible changes occur in the subcellular morphology and organization of cells maintained in an essentially nonmitotic state. This arrested state may be a close approximation to the situation as it occurs in vivo in expanding cell populations.
4292630|A new cell line, SS78, was established from a primary renal cell carcinoma of a Caucasian male. The tissue was dispersed with collagenase, and viable cells were separated by flotation on a Ficoll-Hypaque gradient. In culture, the SS78 cells retained a distinct epithelial morphology, and no fibroblastlike cells were seen. The cultured cells were aneuploid with a modal chromosome number of 80 and had several marker chromosomes. Inoculation of the cultured cells into athymic nude mice caused tumors at the sites of inoculation.
4292069|We synchronized Drosophila cell lines (Schneider's line 2 and K
4291618|A method is described whereby the differential staining of viable and nonviable unfixed cells, as observed by the dye-exclusion method, can be reproduced in glutaraldehyde-fixed preparations by staining with alcian blue. The results suggest that the differential staining is due, at least in part, to structural differences that are retained following aldehyde fixation.
4292080|A bone-marrow culture system is described that provides a simple, quantitative and rapid assessment of marrow bone cells in vitro. Aggregation of bone-marrow cells, an in vitro phenomenon, occurs within 24 hr of culture and is observed utilizing Millipore filters. Daily quantitation shows both an increase in the number and a change in the morphology of these aggregates. The maximum number of aggregates is achieved on the 2nd or 3rd day of incubation. Histologically, aggregates are composed of myeloid, mononuclear and mesenchymal fibroblastic cells. Mesenchymal cells form a matrix for apposed mononuclear and myeloid cells. Scanning electron micrographs show intimate cell contact and spreading by the marrow cells. Fluctuation of the absolute numbers of various cell types are observed. The system can be utilized for long-term culture of bone marrow.
4292300|A simple technique for developing epithelial cell lines from regenerating mouse liver has been described. Twenty-one epithelial cell lines have been developed and can be divided into four groups according to their morphology. All these near diploid cell lines have the capacity to metabolize diverse classes of chemical carcinogens (3-methylcholanthrene, 2-acetylaminofluorene, dimethylnitrosamine and aflatoxin B
4292278|Cultured rat Schwann cells do not exhibit the ring-like changes in cell shape previously reported to be induced in the Schwann cell line RN22 by elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP. They do, however, undergo different shape changes on treatment with cholera toxin or low serum concentration. Furthermore, DNA synthesis in the cell line is inhibited by treatment with cholera toxin and unaffected by bovine pituitary extract, though both of these agents stimulate DNA synthesis in normal Schwann cells. Our results, therefore, do not support the hypothesis that elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP is a positive signal for myelination by the Schwann cell. Moreover, they illustrate the need for caution in drawing conclusions about normal cells of the nervous system from studies on neural cell lines.
4292339|Primary fetal hepatocyte cultures derived from Zucker rats and with expected fa-gene frequencies of 0.0 and 0.75 have been established and can be used to detect early effects of the fa gene on hepatocellular metabolism. Proliferative capacity is similar in both types of culture. Changes of the growth media significantly decrease total lipogenesis in both 0.0 and 0.75 fa-gene culture grown in arginine-free DME medium. Paired incubation experiments demonstrate that total lipogenesis in 0.75 fa gene cultures is significantly less than in 0.0 fa-gene cultures under basal conditions. Stimulation of total lipogenesis by pharmacological doses of insulin and excess substrate (glucose) is significantly less in the 0.75 fa gene than in the 0.0 fa-gene cultures. These data suggest that the development of obesity in the Zucker rat cannot be attributed to elevated hepatic lipogenesis in the fetus.
4291799|MDCK is a transformed cell line derived from normal dog kidney. It exhibits qualities of renal tubular epithelium and of papillary adenocarcinoma. On solid substrates, MDCK forms confluent monolayers that are studded with multicellular blisters and cordlike structures. Ouabain, at a concentration of
4291951|An organ culture system is described for adult human articular cartilage obtained from joints after femoral head replacement operations. Cartilage slices maintain maximal viability for 2 days in culture as assessed by uptake of
4292592|A system has been developed for growth and maintenance of mammalian cells in suspension culture at high density. In principle, the maintenance of constant levels of required nutrients coupled with the removal of toxic cell byproducts can support much higher suspension cell densities than may be obtained in conventional spinners. The system consisted of 4- or 40-liter reaction vessels equipped with a vertically supported rotating cylindrical filter. Agitation was provided by the magnetically driven, rotating filter. Fresh medium was supplied at a rate of 10 to 20 ml/h per 10
4292370| The individual effects of seven hormones on the in vitro growth rate of different classifications of human mammary epithelium were compared. Hormones used were: 17-estradiol, estriol, progesterone, hydrocortisone, testosterone, prolactin, and growth hormone. Cell cultures included three established breast cell lines and primary monolayer cultures established from breast fluids and excised mammary tissue from 40 women and 4 men. Specimens comprised three classifications: normal, nonmalignant atypical, and malignant. Growth was quantitated in situ and expressed as population doubling time. Principal findings were: (a) estrogens, prolactin, and growth hormone stimulated growth of normal cells more frequently than growth of malignant cells, whereas testosterone and hydrocortisone stimulated growth of malignant cells more frequently than growth of normal cells; (b) cells cultured from nonmalignant atypias generally showed hormone response profiles intermediate between those of normal and malignant cells; (c) progesterone stimulated the growth of cells from malignant specimens but not the growth of cells from normal and nonmalignant atypical samples. 
4291605|N-2-Hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethane sulfonic acid (HEPES) and N-tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-2-aminoethane sulfonic acid (TES) have been found to be non-toxic substitutes for bicarbonate buffer in cell culture media. WI-38 embryonic human lung cells have been carried beyond the 60th passage with both HEPES and TES buffers.
20170302|In 129 of 140 attempts, human skin cells were successfully cultured on the dermal collagen bed of sterile, dead pigskin. Diploid epithelial cells grew selectively on the collagen bed; fibroblasts grew on the glass surfaces of the culture dishes. The cultures could be subdivided physically up to six times at a 1:2 split ratio, but at least 24 to 48 cell generations were produced over the months the cells could be carried. Much of the cell multiplication resulted in maturation into distinct basal, squamous, granular, and keratinized cell layers. The cultured cells were considered epithelial because of their shape, possession of intercellular bridges, desmosomes and tonofibrils, and because they formed maturating epithelium in vitro and upon transplantation back to the original human donor. As the cells grew they digested the pigskin collagen, thus producing clear zones that could be used to monitor and quantitate cell growth. Multiplication of epithelial cells, rather than migration, was indicated by mitotic figures in colchicine-treated cultures and by DNA synthesis.
4292663|We have systematically analyzed the proliferative properties of the clonogenic cells of the R3327 transplantable rat prostate adenocarcinoma (colony forming units, prostatic adenocarcinoma, CFU-PA). Pronase was determined to be more effective than either trypsin or collagenase in obtaining the largest number of viable cells from a solid R3327 tumor. Digestion with 2.5 mg/ml yielded a maximum of
4292731|Bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cells in culture were exposed for up to 7 d to a gas mixture containing
4292744|A human diploid fibroblast cell line has been established from the lung tissue of a male fetus. This has been characterized and frozen away in large quantity. A smaller quantity of fibroblastlike cells from skin has also been established, partially characterized, and placed in frozen storage from the same fetus. This project is in support of the National Institute on Aging research in general cell biology. The present lines designated IMR-91 lung and IMR-91 skin complement the previous human diploid fibroblast culture (IMR-90) established from a female fetus. The lack of random inactivation of one of the two X chromosomes in the present male line reduces the genetic heterogeneity inherent in the female line.
20170401| An improved method for cultivating newborn mouse epidermal cells has been developed that increases the longevity, epithelial nature and efficiency of cell-line establishment. The use of Super Medium, an enriched Waymouth's formulation, increased proliferation for long periods of time, as did incubation at 31 C rather than 37 C. The fetal bovine serum requirement was found to be reduced at the lower temperature. An increase in labeling indices was seen when epidermal growth factor (EGF) or the cyclic nucleotides were added and the presence of EGF receptors was determined. Of the prostaglandins (PG) examined, PGE and PGE produced the greatest increase in DNA synthesis. The PG precursors, arachidonic and 8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid, were also greatly stimulatory. The use of a lethally irradiated 3T3 feeder layer at 31 C proved superior in maintenance of an epithelial morphology. Subculturable cell lines were established much more readily and reproducibly in carcinogen-treated cultures grown under the improved conditions. 
20170319| Human mammary tissue from a female at the end of the second trimester of pregnancy was studied in organ culture in a chemically defined medium. Sampling was carried out at 1, 2 and 3 weeks. Without hormones, there was nearly total lobulo-alveolar degeneration in all specimens at all times. Addition of insulin, hydrocortisone and ovine prolactin, in combination at a concentration of 5 g per ml each, did not affect the extent of degeneration. Raising the concentration of prolactin to 50 g per ml resulted in greatly improved lobulo-alveolar maintenance in all specimens and continued epithelial cell DNA synthesis for up to 3 weeks in vitro. 
4292649| A hormonally defined medium consisting of a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium and nutrient mixture F12 supplemented with 50 /ml each of insulin and transferrin was found to grow late passage malignantly transformed cells of the RL-PR-C rat liver dell culture. The same medium formulation would not grow the early passage, normal, diploid counterpart of the RL-PR-C cell culture. When mixtures of the early and late passage cells were made, only the late passage cells would grow, thus providing a selection system for the late passage cells. 
4292498|Radioimmunoassay was used to determine
4292722|Bovine pancreatic ductal cells isolated by perfusing an enzyme solution into the lumen of the main duct were obtained as sheets of cells. Morphologic features of these cells were those of pancreatic ductal epithelial cells. These cells also contained alcian blue/periodic acid-Schiff positive material and bound lectins, and they stained for keratin in the same manner as intact ductal epithelium. In culture, the plating efficiency was high (13.6%) as determined by DNA content before and after 24 h plating, perhaps due to the gentle isolation technique and the isolation of sheets of cells rather than a single cell. Cell doubling time was 34.4 h in Eagle's minimal essential medium with 10% heat inactivated fetal bovine serum and antibodies, and over 95% of the cells incorporated [
4292909| Six different techniques were evaluated to define better those technical factors that are most critical for obtaining prometaphase cells for banding analysis. Our results demonstrate: (a) colcemid exposures of 30 min or less have no effect on increasing the yield of prometaphase cells, (b) colcemid exposures of greater than 0.1 g/ml can be toxic, (c) methotrexate depresses the mitotic index significantly and seems to increase the incidence of prometaphase cells only because it suppresses later forms; and (d) the optimum number of cytogenetically satisfactory prometaphase cells can be obtained with a 4-h exposure to a combination of low concentration actinomycin D (0.5 g/ml) and colcemid (0.1 g/ml). This technique inhibits chromosome condensation while permitting prometaphase cells to accumulate for 4 h. 
4292029|Studies are described employing two erythropoietic systems to elucidate regulatory mechanisms that control both normal erythropoiesis and erythroid differentiation of transformed hemopoietic precursors. Evidence is provided suggesting that normal erythroid cell precursors require erythropoietin as a growth factor that regulates the number of precursors capable of differentiating. Murine erythroleukemia cells proliferate without need of erythropoietin; they show a variable, generally low, rate of spontaneous differentiation and a brisk rate of erythropoiesis in response to a variety of chemical agents. Present studies suggest that these chemical inducers initiate a series of events including cell surface related changes, alterations in cell cycle kinetics, and modifications of chromatin and DNA structure which result in the irreversible commitment of these leukemia cells to erythroid differentiation and the synthesis of red-cell-specific products.
20170495|Population doublings versus time in culture were compared in human postnatal skin fibroblasts from normal donors, a cancer patient, and from donors suffering from Cockayne syndrome, Ataxia telangiectasia, and Fanconi's anemia (FA). Confluent cultures were maintained in a nonproliferating state for 14 to 27 d in 0.5% serum medium. The results show that the ability of cells to resume division after a resting stage can be influenced by pathologic conditions. In arrested FA cell populations an increase of the population doublings and of the calendar time were observed. It is possible that in some cell populations the resting stage favors the expression of growth potentialities related to an instability of the cells.
4291697|Autoradiographic detection of incorporation of tritiated thymidine into the cytoplasm of cultured mammalian cells has been evaluated as a test of contamination of the cultures by cell-associated microorganisms, which usually are mycoplasmas. Criteria which indicate the presence of cell-associated mycoplasmas have been established, and the reliability of the standardized autoradiographic method has been assessed by testing the same cultures by two colony formation methods of mycoplasmal detection. The autoradiographic method demonstrated cell-associated microorganisms in all cultures from which characteristic colonies were grown on mycoplasma agar. The autoradiographic method did not produce false positive results, and the outcome of this test was evident in 3 days as opposed to 7 to 14 days by agar culture methods. Some applications of the autoradiographic method are shown, and it is suggested that this method be employed for routine surveillance for mycoplasmal contamination in laboratories where facilities for frequent agar culture tests are not easily available.
20170289| The lymphocyte plasma membrane is the locus of events which control the immune response. T and B lymphocytes, which mediate cellular and humoral immunity respectively, show distinctive plasma membrane morphologies and cell surface receptors. The dynamic state of these plasma membrane components is emphasized by their lateral mobility in the fluid plane of the membrane, as well as variation in their structure or expression as the lymphocyte proliferates and differentiates in response to stimulation by antigen or mitogens. The best understood membrane glycoproteins are surface membrane immunoglobulins that serve as antigen receptors on B cells, and the histocompatability- microglobulin complex that has an immunoglobulin-like structure. Other less well defined surface structures showing modulation during the cell cycle may affect growth regulation of proliferating lymphocytes. Some of these are shared by fetal and neoplastic cells. Major theories of lymphocyte signaling are discussed, and the early events in lymphocyte activation are reviewed. While a complete model encompassing all these early events is not yet possible, the central issues can be usefully discussed in terms of receptor-transducer-effector concepts derived by strong parallels from a knowledge of hormone-membrane interactions. 
4292054|A transitional cell carcinoma cell line, COLO 232, was derived from a primary urinary bladder tumor in a Caucasian male. In culture, COLO 232 retained distinct uroepithelial phenotypic traits and produced both carcinoembryonic antigen and adrenocorticotropic hormone. COLO 232 had a chromosome mode of 58 and retained the X and Y chromosomes. Ten marker chromosomes were identified. COLO 232 will be of value for biochemical and immunological studies.
4292356|The usefulness of isozyme patterns for distinguishing 14 lepidopteran and 2 dipteran cell lines was evaluated. The lepidopteran cell lines used in this study represent eight taxonomic families with one family, Noctuidae, having five representatives. Cell extracts were examined for 18 isozymes using a starch gel electrophoretic system. Ten isozymes proved to be suitable because their isozyme patterns permitted the allocation of the cell lines into distinct groups. Furthermore, four isozymes (isocitrate dehydrogenase, malic enzyme, phosphoglucoisomerase, and phosphoglucomutase) were found to be adequate to distinguish the cell lines. The isozyme patterns observed for the two dipteran and one of the lepidopteran cell lines were analogous to the profiles found using the intact insect. Isozyme analyses differentiated the cell lines and may prove useful for identifications of species of origin. The use of this technique as a criterion for identification of invertebrate cell lines is proposed.
4291682|The effect of various amino acids on collagen biosynthesis was studied in organ cultures of chicken embryo tibiae. Competitive interrelationship between selected amino acids influences independently the uptake of proline and lysine, precursors of hydroxyproline and hydroxylysine, respectively, which are the two amino acids characteristic of collagen. On the basis of these influences, the possibility of biosynthesis of anomalous collagens is stressed. Parallel studies of biosynthesis of hydroxyproline and hydroxylysine are necessary.
4292543|Y-1 cells were passaged weekly for 6 wk in MACT IV medium without a period of adaptation to this basal medium that requires 1% dialyzed fetal bovine serum as a supplement. The steroid pathway and chromosome number, reported earlier for this cell line under culture conditions that used much higher concentrations of nondialyzed sera, remained stable despite dialysis and reduction of the fetal bovine serum to 1%.
4292120|The rat-tail artery was maintained in vitro for 2 weeks to investigate its suitability as an experimental model. The criteria were that (a) it should retain the overall histological organization with normal ultrastructural appearance of the smooth-muscle cells; (b) stored neurotransmitter which could be activated by experimental treatment should be absent; and (c) smooth-muscle ion transport mechanisms should fall within normal range. Vessels were maintained in Falcon tissue-culture dishes in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium. Either 2% or no serum supplement was found to be more suitable than 10% serum due to the high rate of cell proliferation induced by the latter. Light and electron microscopy of cross sections of the vessels indicated that the overall normal vessel architecture was retained, and the ultrastructural features predicted normal function. There were no discernible differences dependent on the length (up to 8- to 10-cm lengths) of the cultured vessel. Preliminary experiments with fluorescent microscopy showed that stored neurotransmitter in the nerves of the vessel wall was no longer present after 48 hr. Ultrastructural examination revealed that storage vesicles in vitro lost their dense cores, representing noradrenalin, between 41 and 48 hr in culture. Normal ion transport mechanisms were retained in the smooth-muscle cells of the arteries in vitro for up to 2 weeks when tested with ion-specific electrodes. Morphological and physiological evidence support the suitability of the rat-tail artery as a model for experimental testing of vascular tissues.
4291732|Forty-six cell cultures established from amniocentesis fluids were preserved in liquid nitrogen and later recovered from the frozen state with little loss of viability as compared to prefreeze viability. Five to 10% glycerol was found to be optimal for preservation in liquid nitrogen, and as few as 5  10
4292213|The role of folate metabolism in growth control in monolayer and suspension cell cultures was studied in three related cell lines: BHK-21, polyoma-transformed BHK-21 (PyBHK), and an aminopterin-resistant derivative of BHK-21 (A5). BHK-21 cells had extremely low levels of dihydrofolate reductase, PyBHK had higher levels, and A5 had extremely high levels. Hypoxanthine and thymidine together, but not individually, induced BHK-21 to grow in agar, and stimulated its growth in agarose and monolayer culture. PyBHK and A5 grew spontaneously in agar, and hypoxanthine plus thymidine had little or no effect on their growth either in suspension or in monolayer cultures. We found that exogenous folinic acid, a derivative of folate metabolism that bypasses the function of dihydrofolate reductase, mimicked the growth-stimulatory effects of exogenous hypoxanthine plus thymidine BHK-21. We conclude that the growth limitation of BHK-21 in suspension culture is due, in part, to a deficiency of dihydrofolate reductase. This enzyme deficiency limits nucleoside synthesis and can be overcome by supplying end products of this pathway.
4292295|A modified method for establishing cultures of rabbit corneal cells is described. The new technique utilized a Lucite disc in combination with a Tygon ring for growth of pure cell cultures and was compared with an explant method for growing cells. Each method provided adequate cell cultures for biochemical or ultrastructure studies of rabbit corneal cells, but the ring and disc method described here allowed the isolation of specific cell types without the interference of stromal cell contamination.
20170457| Multicellular, cystic structures, termed domes, have been described previously in epithelia cultured from various tissues that have a known transport or secretory function in vivo and in vitro. We report for the first time dome formation in cells cultured from "covering" and "rest" epithelia of oral tissues: porcine gingival and alveolar mucosa epithelium and epithelial rests of Malassez. As demonstrated by light- and electron microscopy, the morphology of the domes varied with the location of their lumen and the number of cells or cell layers involved in their structure. Sequential observations using phase contrast microscopy and time lapse cinematography of living cultures showed that the domes were dynamic structures with expansion-collapse cycles of between 30 min and 17 h duration. Dome formation in oral epithelia was stimulated by dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dbcAMP, 10 to 10 M) and abolished by ouabain (10 M), an inhibitor of sodium transport. The morphological features and the dynamic nature of domes found in oral epithelia, and their dbcAMP and ouabain responsiveness are similar to those demonstrated previously in several other epithelia that have a known transport function in vivo and in vitro. Such fluid transport is not thought to be a property of oral epithelia in vivo. Our data, however, suggest a similar function of these epithelia cultured in vitro, and perhaps in pathological cyst formation in vivo. 
4292068|Monolayers of liver cells cultured from postnatal rats were grown in two types of media. One set of cultures was grown in selective medium which contained ornithine but was deficient in arginine; the other set was grown in nonselective medium which contained arginine but no ornithine. The cultures that were grown in the nonselective medium contained primarily a mixture of two cell types found in the liver: parenchymal hepatocytes and fibroblast-like cells. The fibroblast cells tended to overgrow the hepatocytes after several days in culture. In contrast, fibroblast overgrowth was inhibited in cultures grown in the selective, arginine-deficient medium, thereby resulting in relatively pure cultures of functional parenchymal hepatocytes. Comparative studies of sulfobromophthalein (BSP) uptake showed that the cultures grown in selective medium continued to be active much longer than the cultures grown in the nonselective medium. Pyruvate kinase assays revealed that the cultures grown in selective medium contained primarily the L-isoenzyme type which is characteristic of parenchymal hepatocytes. Cultures grown in nonselective medium contained a mixture of L- and M-isoenzymes which is indicative of nonparenchymal liver cells. The reported results indicate that selective, arginine-deficient medium permits primarily the growth of parenchymal hepatocytes found in neonatal rat liver.
4292210|Three human melanoma cell lines derived from one primary and two metastatic tumors from three different patients were characterized for growth properties usually associated with malignant transformation; these include cell morphology, growth rate, saturation density, growth in semisolid media, colony-forming ability on contact-inhibited monolayers of normal fibroblasts and epithelial cells, and tumorigenicity in immunosuppressed mice. Variations in expression of aberrant properties were evident among the lines. One of the metastatic lines satisfied all the parameters of malignancy tested and the other showed a number of these properties, whereas the primary essentially fulfilled only one. These results suggest that cultured melanoma cells reflect the clinical variability often observed among melanoma patients and that metastatic melanoma seems to display a higher degree of malignant transformation than the primary.
20170541|Monolayer cultures can be established from human endometrial tissue after enzymatic dispersal into isolated glands or single cells. Three cell types that have distinct morphology by light and electron microscopy are observed in the resulting primary cultures. One cell type, an elongated spindle cell, is similar in appearance to fibroblasts derived from other tissues. A second cell type forms colonies of tightly cohesive cells, ranging in shape from oval to polygonal. These cells have typical organelles and junctional complexes characteristic of epithelial cells from the endometrium. The third cell type assumes a pavementlike appearance composed of polygonal cells when viewed by phase contrast microscopy, but lacks distinctive ultrastructural features of epithelial cells. These cells in culture resemble the endometrial stromal cell, the predominant cell type of the human endometrium in vivo. The epithelial cell does not survive subculturing but the other two cell types can be passaged through several generations and can be stored in liquid nitrogen and subsequently returned to culture.
4292455|Permeable intercellular junctions are a common feature of most animal tissues. These junctions allow the free exchange of small ions and molecules between all the cells in coupled populations. Such limited syncytial interaction contributes to the integration of individual cells into organized tissues.
4292110|Hydrogen peroxide, lethal for human cells, is produced in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's tissue culture medium when exposed to "daylight" fluorescent light. Addition of pure H
4292871|Competent tissue cultures were initiated from axillary tiller buds and immature leaves of two cultivars of Avena sativa L. and cultured on agar nutrient medium containing 2 mg/1 of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 1 mg/1 benzyladenine. Using a technique of selective excision and subculturing of the shoot-forming tissues and rejecting the root-forming tissues, we regenerated numerous plants either on hormone-free medium or by allowing the subculture with hormone to age under usual culture-room light conditions.
4292194|The BeWo trophoblastic cell line was employed to assess the requirement for microtubules and cellular energy in human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) secretion. In contrast to the general inhibitory effect of colchicine and vincristine on hormone secretion in systems involving exocytosis, wide concentration ranges of these antimicrotubule agents caused enhancement of hCG secretion. Similarly, cytochalasin B, an agent that interferes with microfilament function, doubled both basal hCG secretion, and secretion of hCG stimulated by 1 mM dibutyryl cyclic AMP plus 1 mM theophylline (dbT). Inhibitors of cellular energy production (2,4-dinitrophenol, malonate, azide) decreased both secreted and cellular levels of hormone. High concentrations of K
20170506| A new mouse metanephric organ culture system has been developed to study mammalian renal development. The system permits in vitro organotypic differentiation in a serum-free, hormone supplemented medium consisting of Dulbecco's minimal essential medium (MEM) and Ham's F12 medium supplemented with insulin, 5 g/ml; PGE, 25 ng/ml; T, 3.2 pg/ml; hydrocortisone, 5 g/ml; and transferrin, 5 g/ml. In this system, metanephric development continues morphologically beyond the S-shaped tubule stage. A well differentiated proximal tubule forms with a well defined brush border, specialized intercellular connections, and an apical endocytic network. In addition, a unique devascularized glomerulus, with highly differentiated podocytes surrounding areas of basement membrane, forms entirely from epithelial elements. The present organ culture model goes beyond the limitations of previously described systems in that it does not require separation of nephrogenic blastema from ureteric bud, nor require animal serum or nonspecific tissue extracts for metanephric development. The model is thus suited for morphological, biochemical, and endocrinological study of normal and abnormal renal organogenesis. 
4291614|Explants of whole ovaries and oviducts from postnatal rats were completely submerged during cultivation as organ cultures in chemically defined medium. The oxygen concentration in the culture chamber was raised to over 90%, and the stainless steel platform, used for cultures at the surface of the medium, was abandoned and excluded from further use. Thus, all of the periphery of an expiant had equal access to nutrients and oxygen. Throughout the ovarian expiants the tissues appeared uniformly viable, and mitotic figures were distributed evenly. These observations are in contrast to those on organs cultivated at the surface of the medium where a lack of structural uniformity had been detected. The method has general application to a variety of organs.
20170270|A method is described for the culture of normal and diseased human muscle cells. Cell outgrowth was obtained from 63/63 biopsies, and cells differentiated to form myotubes in 57/63 biopsies. The culture technique used readily permitted the growth of both normal and diseased human muscle cells.
4291857|Bacteriological tests were made on 24 lots of unfiltered calf serum collected for subsequent use as a component of tissue culture media. The examination included the isolation and identification of bacteria, assay of phages, and demonstration of endotoxin material. Only Gram-positive bacteria were isolated and 96% of the sera were contaminated with bacteria. The prevalent strains of bacteria found were Bacillus species and streptococci and 63% of the sera coagulated Limulus amebocyte lysate. More than 90% of the lots contained phages demonstrable with the C-3000 strain of Escherichia coli. Only one lot of the serum was found to be free from bacteria, phages, and endotoxin by the tests used.
4292883|A centrifugal method has been evaluated for measuring the strength of Vero Green Monkey kidney cell adhesion to growth surfaces. The centrifugal force necessary to remove cells gave a quantitative measure of cell adhesion and hence the quality of the growth surface. After being subjected to high gravity forces, both the remaining attached cells and the detached cells were viable, indicating the detachment process did not simply rupture the cell. Electron microscope examination of growth surfaces after cell detachment suggested that remnants related to filopodia remained.
4292369|A method is described for the rapid reversible conversion of a number of continuous cell lines from anchorage-dependent growth to growth as aggregates of cells in suspension culture. Employing this technique, an inoculum of three 75-cm
4292573|Myogenic cells of the L
20170361| A stable epithelial-like pig kidney cell strain has been established. This strain has been carried through more than 300 serial passages, has remained free of microbial and viral contaminants, and has retained a near diploid number of chromosomes. Attempts to produce tumors with these cells in immunosuppressed laboratory animals have been uniformly negative. The cells have grown rapidly in monolayer cultures with a split ratio of 1 to 15 at weekly intervals, but have failed to proliferate in suspension cultures. A subline adapted to growth on serum-free medium 199 has been carried through 145 passages on this medium. Several unusual morphologic features have been observed in these cultures including three-dimensional "domelike" structures. These cells have been found susceptible to some viruses and have been especially useful for viruses of domestic animals. LLC-PK cells have produced significant levels of plasminogen activator. 
4291965|Metabolic studies in HEp-2/MP, MIR cells (an adenosine kinase, hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase negative mutant) indicated the presence of adenosine phosphorylase activity. This activity, unknown in established mammalian cell lines, resulted in the glycosidic cleavage of both adenosine and the antiviral drug arabinosyladenine. The activity was observed readily in the presence or absence of the adenosine deaminase inhibitor coformycin. Isopycnic separation of
4292534|Low density bovine vacular endothelial cell cultures maintained on dishes coated with an extracellular matrix can be grown in serum-free Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with high density lipoprotein (HDL) and transferrin. Such cultures do not require insulin. Early passage cultures exposed to HDL and transferrin grew as well as cultures exposed to optimal serum concentrations and could be passaged repeatedly in total absence of serum. A requirement for fibroblast growth factor to ensure an optimal growth could be observed only with late-passage cultures. The present results suggest strongly that HDL is involved in supporting the proliferation of vascular endothelial cells in vitro. This may be important for our understanding of the biological role of HDL "in vivo."
20170362|Spent media from five different insect cell lines when inoculated into Trichoplusia ni (TN-368) cultures produced cytotoxicity resulting in rounding and detachment of cells. The substance in spent medium from the established cell line Carpocapsa pomonella (CP-169) is believed to be a toxin, based on the failure to serially passage the agent, the early appearance of the cytotoxic effect, and the inability to detect microbes by culturing techniques as well as by electron microscopy. The ability to extract the toxic substance from CP-169 cells indicates that it is cell associated. Biophysical and biochemical properties of the CP-169 cytotoxin are presented.
4292699|A human nongestational choriocarcinoma cell line of ovarian origin (IMa) was established in vitro. This cell line had been subcultured serially more than 22 times over 18 months. Small polygonal cells with a prominent nucleus were dominant and a sparsity of cytoplasmic organelles was an ultrastructural characteristic of the IMa cells. The production and secretion of human chorionic gonadotropin and its subunits were identified by radioimmunoassay. The IMa cells were transplantable in the hamster cheek pouch and the histological diagnosis was choriocarcinoma. A newly established ovarian choriocarcinoma cell line can be considered useful for clarifying the biological differences between nongestational and gestational choriocarcinoma cells.
4292224|A new type of contaminant particles persistently infected Drosophila cell lines. On an ultrastructural, morphogenetic and histochemical basis, they are similar to viruses of the Reoviridae group. They have been named Drosophila K virus (DKV).
4292162|Total insoluble collagen and hydroxyproline formation were examined in lung embryonic fibroblasts (IMR-90) grown in the presence or absence of added ascorbate. As expected, when the cells from both groups (+ and - ascorbate) are pulsed with
20170554|Culture of cells in hormonally defined media has allowed (a) the demonstration of physiological responses from cells usually unable to express them in vitro and (b) the study of the effects on growth and differentiation of diffusible factors and attachment factors. The embryonal carcinoma line 1003 forms multidifferentiated tumors in vivo but is unable to differentiate in vitro when grown in serum-containing medium. In a defined medium containing insulin, transferrin, selenium, and fibronectin as attachment factors, 1003 cells grow for several generations and differentiate into neurons and embryonic mesenchyme (Darmon et al., 1981, Dev. Biol. 85: 463-473). In the present work the effects of fibronectin and laminin were compared. In the presence of laminin the cells attached and spread better, grew faster, and could be plated at lower densities. Neurite extension was also better under these conditions and most importantly, it was found that laminin induced an important formation of muscular tissue when the cells had been seeded at low densities. Multinucleated myotubes could be stained with antibodies directed against embryonic muscular myosin. Coating the dishes with polylysine or adding FGF or serum-spreading factor to the medium allowed growth of low-density cultures with fibronectin instead of laminin but muscular differentiation was not detected under these conditions. Addition of fibronectin to laminin-containing medium did not inhibit muscular differentiation.
4292719|To determine what biochemical indexes might be useful in measuring the endothelial response to hyperoxia in vitro we exposed endothelial cell monolayers (ECM) from pig aortas to either hyperoxic (
4292052|Three chlorinated hydrocarbons, proposed or already in use as industrial substitutes for the hydrocarbon trichloroethylene, were tested for in vitro transforming potential in a Fischer rat embryo cell system (F1706), which previously has been shown to be sensitive to transformation by chemical carcinogens. Trichloroethylene and the three substitutes (1,1,1 trichloroethane, tetrachloroethylene and methylene chloride) all were found to induce transformation, the three substitutes being equal or more efficient transforming agents.
4292353|We show that silica enhances the proliferation of some but not all lung derived fibroblastlike cells (FLC) of fetal and adult origin. Cultures were obtained from lung biopsy and lavage of normal individuals and patients with interstitial lung disease. The responses of these cell lines were heterogeneous; some cultures were stimulated to proliferate in the presence of silica and others were not stimulated. There was no apparent correlation between source of the cell lines and the effects of silica. The proliferative capacity of the cells appeared to be an important determinant of the effect of silica on the growth of the cultures.
20170398| A new culture medium, NCTC 168, has been designed for human skin epithelial cells. This medium formulation was developed, by combining and testing at various concentrations, components of media NCTC 135 and 163, since a 1:1 mixture of these two media with 10% horse serum supplement was found to promote epithelial cell outgrowth from human skin explants. The buffer system in NCTC 168 maintains the pH of the medium between 7.0 and 7.2. In contrast to other media tested, NCTC 168 with 10% horse serum is capable of initiating and sustaining larger epithelial cell reproducibly yield confluent epithelial cell sheets apparently free of fibroblasts after only 19 to 28 days as compared with 5 weeks or longer for the other media tested. NCTC 168 also supports passage of human epithelial cells to the sixth subculture generation without feeder cells. Electron microscopy has shown the presence of desmosomes and tonofilaments in the passaged cells indicating the epithelial nature of the cells. The addition of epithelial growth factor, hydrocortisone and insulin at 5 ng per ml, 4 g per ml and 5 g per ml, respectively, did not appreciably enhance the growth of the epithelial cells. 
4292575|A cell surface associated "glucose regulated protein" has been described on nontransformed human fibroblasts. To examine the distribution of that protein on human fibroblasts specific antisera were used. The antisera was used in conjunction with indirect immunofluorescence and revealed that the glucose regulated protein was present as fibers on spread cells. Further, the antisera was used in complement mediated cytotoxicity assays to examine cells during specific stages of the mitotic cell cycle. Fibroblasts were synchronized by serum starvation, hydroxyurea inhibition, or colcemid inhibition followed by mitotic selection. The results demonstrated that the glucose regulated protein was maximally displayed during the G
4292830| The main obstacle to establishing pure normal human melanocytes in vitro is contamination of the cultures by fibroblasts. The obstacle can be overcome by selective destruction of fibroblasts with geneticin (G418 sulfate). Treatment of mixed cultures with this drug at a concentration of 100 g/ml for two days results in pure cultures of normal human melanocytes. 
4292679|Multicell spheroids are useful as in vitro models for certain nodular tumors. Spheroids may contain subpopulations of cells that are necrotic, hypoxic, and redistributed through the cell cycle, and the relative fractions of these subpopulations can change as the spheroids grow. As a result, spheroids of different sizes may respond differently to any given treatment. For experimental studies it is important to use populations of spheroids of homogeneous size. Here we report the design and use of a sedimentation column that uses precision woven screen to obtain homogeneously sized populations of multicell spheroids quickly, accurately, aseptically, and reproducibly. This device may be applied in other biological fields also where separation of cell aggregates of a specific size is required.
4292160|The nutritional requirement of Drosophila cells (GM
4291812|Most human long-term lymphoid cell lines contain Epstein-Barr viral (EBV) DNA and virus-specific antigens. The available evidence suggests that EBV plays a role in the establishment of continuous cell lines of leukocytes derived from normal donors. These cell lines contain several copies of the whole EBV genome in a repressed state which can in some cases be activated by treatment with halogenated pyrimidines. A few lymphoid cell lines recently established from patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia or lymphoma are free of detectable EBV DNA and antigens. These cell lines may represent the malignant tissue of origin and exhibit the growth potential of the parent cells. On the other hand, their unlimited life span in culture may be due to the presence of a fragment of EBV DNA forming less than 10% of the total DNA and therefore not detectable by current techniques. This fragment could code for proteins involved in the transformation process. The presence of endogenous EBV should be considered in handling human lymphoid cell lines, and in the interpretation of results utilizing these cells.
20170408|A human pancreatic tumor cell line has been established from the ascites of a patient with histopathologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the head of the pancreas and maintained for more than 12 months in the laboratory. Epithelioid tumor cell colonies, which resulted from primary tissue cultures of the ascitic cell component, were mechanically isolated by needle micromanipulation. Tumorigenicity was proven in athymic nude mice. Morphologically the pancreatic tumor epithelial cells grew to confluency with moderately tight adhesion to the culture plastic surface and with free-floating cells in the medium. Upon re-establishment of the tumoral xenograft in tissue culture, the epithelial cells retained their original morphology. Histologically the tumor grown in nude mice exhibited prototypic characteristics of the primary adenocarcinoma in the patient, producing abundant mucin and displaying a broad spectrum of glandular differentiation, which ranged from well to poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas with occasionally localized lymphocytic infiltrations. Furthermore, the tumor expressed carcinoembryonic antigen and human pancreas cancer associated antigen. This tumor line, designated AsPC-1, has been cultured for at least 10 passages in vitro and 3 in vivo. It represents a new model for human pancreatic cancer.
20170474|A method based on the use of a neutral bacterial protease was employed for the preparation of isolated human hepatocytes from surgical biopsy specimens. Cells maintained in primary culture developed ultrastructural features characteristic of human hepatocytes in vivo. They retained the ability to bind insulin; binding kinetics were similar to those of other species. The hepatocytes responded to physiological concentrations of insulin by an increase in glycogen synthesis.
4292095|HeLa and L-M cells can be effectively grown directly on glass fiber filters to yield replicate cultures that allow easy analysis of biosynthetic capabilities through measurement of radioactive precursor uptake and incorporation. The glass fiber filters are superior to glass cover slips, growth in scintillation vials, and growth on Millipore filters in the ease of handling during experimental treatment and in the amount of radioactivity incorporated during the labeling period. These parameters are experimentally established and a typical application of the procedure that demonstrates the hydroxyurea inhibition of DNA synthesis is presented.
4292251|Cytolytic activity of glucocorticoids in vitro is assessed by measuring radiochromium release from steroid-treated thymic lymphocytes under the equilibrium conditions provided by a continuous-labeling technique. Isotope release is a glucocorticoid-specific effect produced at physiological concentrations and is virtually abolished by inhibitors of RNA and protein synthesis. The relative lytic potencies of the steroids tested are comparable to those reported for glucocorticoids as measured by other methods. This procedure not only possesses the advantages typical of isotopic techniques in general, but, in addition, circumvents the problem of "spontaneous" label release associated with the pulse-labeling method. It is a useful alternative to the morphologic examination of cells or the estimation of cell viability for determination of glucocorticoid cytolytic activity.
20170472|The effect of feeder layers on cloning efficiency of transformed human cells was investigated. Embryonic human skin or lung fibroblasts; adult human skin fibroblasts; early passage cells from embryos of mouse, rat, and hamster; established mouse cell lines; 3T3 and 10T were used as feeder layers after they were lethally exposed to Co-60 gamma-rays at 3,000 rad. As test cells to study the effect of feeder layers on cloning efficiency, WI-38 CT-1 cells transformed in vitro by Co-60 gamma-rays and HGC cells cultured from a human gastric cancer were used. The effect of feeder layers on the cloning efficiency of the test cells was dependent on cell density of feeder layer cells, sources of the feeder layer cells, and kinds of test cells. An optimal density of feeder cells produced cloning efficiencies 3 to 15 times higher than in cultures without a feeder layer. Generally, high density of cells in feeder layers decreased the cloning efficiency of the test cells, presumably owing to contact inhibition of growth and depletion of essential nutrients by the feeder layer cells. Regarding the effect of the feeder layers made of human fibroblasts, there were no significant differences in population doubling levels; tissue origins of fibroblasts; or fibroblasts derived from normal individuals, patients with cancer, or with a genetically high familial incidence of cancer, hereditary adenomatosis of the colon and rectum.
4291783|Epithelial development was studied in organ cultures of vaginas from ovariectomized mice. In defined medium without estrogen, basal cell proliferation and formation of a stratified squamous epithelium occurred spontaneously in a high percentage of cases. During this "spontaneous" development, the length of the cell cycle and duration of DNA synthesis were the same as those occurring in vivo in response to estrogen. RNA synthesis was also stimulated. Thus, spontaneous development in vitro appears to resemble estrogen-induced development in vivo both qualitatively and quantitatively. In vitro, estrogen was found to have no detecTable effect on the atrophic epithelium. In addition, estrogen was unable to halt degeneration of the fully developed epithelium on explants that had been estrogen-primed in vivo. The results suggest that both hormone-dependence and ability of hormones to induce a response are dependent on cell environmental factors.
4292708|This report demonstrates that low passage C3H 10T1/2 cells treated with the carcinogens benzo(a)pyrene or diepoxybutane are transformed morphologically as colonies in as little as 14 d after carcinogen treatment. A transforming dose-response curve is achieved but the frequency of transformation is less than half the expected for 38 d foci, compared on the basis of percent transformants per cell plated. Anchorage-independent cell growth, plating efficiency, doubling time, cell density, and modal chromosomal number were examined from transformed colonies and foci. The data from colony transformants show progressive alteration of these in vitro expressions of neoplastic character with continued subcultivation, consistent with the multistep hypothesis of carcinogenesis. Early in vivo data obtained from one colony-derived transformed cell line show tumorigenesis in irradiated mice within 13 wk of implantation. With continued in vivo passage, tumors were observed in 4 to 6 wk.
4292320|Hepatocytes prepared from rats at various perinatal stages were cultured in selective medium that does not allow fibroblastic cell growth. Cell population remained homogeneous during the culture. Hepatocytes undergo divisions for a period, which varies according to the stage of development of the rat. Light and electron microscope observations showed the presence of numerous cytoplasmic organelles; moreover, hydrocortisone-induced structures similar to bile canaliculi. Chromatin protein kinase decreased rapidly during culture except in samples prepared from 17-day fetuses in which it remained unchanged for 2 days and decreased to a lesser extent afterwards. Chromatin nonhistone proteins were incubated with (-
20170519| Transferrin was tested for its ability to replace serum in supporting mitogen and allogeneic cell stimulated human lymphocyte proliferation. Although transferrin, at concentrations greater than 5 g/ml, was incapable of completely replacing the serum used to support phytohemagglutinin, Concanavalin A, and pokeweed mitogen, stimulated human lymphocytes, in the absence of serum it significantly augmented the proliferative responses observed for mitogen, yet not allogeneically-stimulated cells. Augmentation is not due to a nonspecific protein effect and appears to be independent of the metal content of transferrin. The mechanism of growth support appears to involve an effect of transferrin following the G phase in the initial cell cycle. 
4292500|The penetration of
4292237|Hamster BHK cells or secondary cultures of mouse embryo fibroblasts are not iodinated by lactoperoxidase in the absence of hydrogen peroxide. When such cell cultures are infected with a noncultivable strain of M. hyorhinis, endogenous peroxide generation is sufficient to permit nearly maximal iodination. The SDS-polyacrylamide gel pattern of iodinated cell surface polypeptides is essentially the same regardless of the source of peroxide and whether or not the cultures are infected with mycoplasma.
4292855|The intact membranous rat mesentery was cultured in Eagle's minimum essential medium containing no serum or only low concentrations of serum. The procedure is in some important respects superior to previous organ culture techniques. To estimate the extent of disturbance of homeostasis of the tissue in culture, the spontaneous mast-cell histamine release was quantitated after preculture preparation of the specimens and after different intervals in culture. Also, the proliferation of fibroblasts and mesothelial cells that predominate in the mesentery was assessed at 48 h by cytofluorometric quantitation of DNA in single-tissue cells. Spontaneous histamine release was time dependent during cultivation, amounting to ca. 50% at 48 h, and was affected by the medium used for moistening the tissue before cultivation. Culturing also brought about great spontaneous increase in the proliferation of fibroblasts and mesothelial cells, the rate being related to the concentration of serum. Addition of the mast-cell secretagogues 48/80 or polymyxin B at 1 h caused rapid release of 50 to 60% of the histamine and was followed by augmented proliferation in the serum-containing media. The spontaneous increase of cell proliferation in tissue culture may be causally related to mast-cell secretion. Further studies are needed to define factors influencing the spontaneous mast-cell secretion and the mast-cell-dependent mitogenesis in normal tissue cells.
4292313|Rates of cell proliferation essentially equal to those in 10% serum were obtained when Yaffe's L6 myoblasts were incubated in Ham's F-12 medium containing 10
4292768|A method to isolate and maintain microvascular endothelial cells from the cutaneous vessels of adult human skin in long-term culture has been developed. Endothelial cells lining the microvessels of the papillary dermis are released from surrounding tissue during a brief trypsin incubation (0.3% trypsin, 1% EDTA). Cells are plated onto a fibronectin substrate and maintained in Leibovitz (L15) culture medium containing pooled human serum (50%) and antibiotics. Proliferation is dependent upon the presence of several additional growth factors, cholera enterotoxin (
4292505|We evaluated six commercially available tissue culture media in their capacity to support villi morphogenesis and enterocyte differentiation during duodenal development of the fetal mouse in vitro: McCoy's 5A, Medium 199, Swim's S77, Trowell T8, Leibovitz L-15, and RPMI-1640. The duodenal segments were resected at 15 d gestation, before the formation of intestinal villi. In the segments cultured with the first four media, no villi differentiated even at 72 h culture. The number of epithelial cells per transverse section of the explants did not increase at 24 h and thereafter the number of epithelial cells decreased, except with McCoy's 5A. With the Leibovitz and RPMI media, rudimentary villi differentiated at 24 h of culture and they attained their longest length at 48 h. With the RPMI medium, the number of epithelial cells doubled at 24 h of culture and with Leibovitz medium it doubled at 48 h. At the fine structural level absorptive cells remained poorly differentiated with all the media studied. Goblet cells were easily identified after 24 h culture; they had a well developed rough endoplasmic reticulum and numerous mucous granules. Endocrine cells differentiated in culture and they were loaded with secretion granules. It was concluded that the small intestine of the fetal mouse can be kept in organ culture for at least 72 h. Full maturation of absorptive cells seemed to require some additional factor(s) as they remained poorly differentiated with all the media studied. Because well differentiated endocrine cells were present in all the explants, it appeared that gastrointestinal hormones do not affect villi morphogenesis and absorptive cells differentiation.
4292183| During serial subcultures 50 g per ml gentamicin and penicillin (100 U per ml)-streptomycin (100 g per ml) depressed cell growth significantly 2 weeks after the addition of the antibiotics; gentamicin, but not penicillin-streptomycin, stimulated cell growth before it became inhibitory. Removal of the antibiotics resulted in the cell yield returning to normal. The results show that these antibiotics can be harmful to cells even at concentrations thought to be safe. 
4292355| The usefulness of four serologic techniques for distinguishing five selected lepidopteran cell lines was evaluated; the techniques included complement fixation, hemagglutination, immunodiffusion, and immunoelectrophoresis. The five selected lepidopteran cell lines represent three taxonomic families of Lepidoptera with one family, Noctuidae, containing two cell lines derived from insects within the same genus. The five cell lines were cross-reactive in complement-fixation tests, but the lines were distinguishable at a familic level when two units of antigens were used in the test. Agglutination of goose erythrocytes was not observed with the antigens over a pH range of 5.8 to 7.2 at 4 C or ambient temperature. Immunodiffusion tests demonstrated a common cross-reactive antigen(s), but spurs of partial identity and the presence of extra precipitin bands were indicative that differentiation at a familic level was possible. Immunoelectrophoresis of the cellular antigens also revealed common cross-reactive precipitin arcs, but the number and clarity of arcs in homologous systems was increased such that four of the five cell lines were distinguishable. A basic protein was consistently seen in the homologous system, but it was absent in the heterologous systems. Although these data suggest that immunoelectrophoresis was the best serologic technique for distinguishing the five lepidopteran cell lines, the shortcomings of this approach are also discussed. 
4292367|Graded doses of cell suspensions of an embryonic cockroach cell line in its 290th passage were injected into the hemoceles of hosts of the homologous species, Blattella germanica, of different ages. All insects injected with viable cells suffered paralysis, progressive loss of appendages, and premature death. The time of death depended on the number of cells inoculated. Histological studies of the afflicted insects showed that the injected cells were metastatic and invasive, producing tumors, especially in the fat body. Tumors were transplantable and malignant in secondary hosts. Tumors were not produced by cell-free spent medium, or homogenized or sonicated cell breis. The cause of paralysis and loss of appendages was not known, although large aggregations of the injected cells could be seen in the leg musculature in the thorax. Cells were recovered from the tumors and grown again in culture. The line was predominantly diploid (62%) with some heteroploid cells (38%).
4291733|In human diploid skin fibroblasts in culture we have shown that nonhydroxylated collagen precursors remain in the cell when proline hydroxylation is inhibited by
4291689|Use of sterile membrane filters (Millipore) as a surface for embryo attachment and growth was attempted with success. Embryos attached to the filters readily and showed development equal to or better than the controls which were maintained on a whole egg-agar medium.
4291889|During a cytogenetic study of human spontaneous abortions, attempts were made to initiate cell lines from tissues of embryos with chromosomal anomalies. The rate of success of these attempts and the life-span of the cell cultures is correlated with the development attained by these aneusomic embryos.
4292900|Glucose-6-phosphatase activity decreases whereas gamma glutamyltranspeptidase activity increases during hepatocarcinogenesis and the maintenance of hepatocytes in primary culture. This report describes the effect of culture conditions that are known to preserve hepatic glucose-6-phosphatase activity on gamma glutamyltranspeptidase activity. The results indicate that the regulation of glucose-6-phosphatase and gamma glutamyltranspeptidase activities is not coordinated in primary cultures of hepatocytes.
4292405| The two-step collagenase perfusion method originally developed for the high yield isolation of parenchymal cells from adult rat livers has been adapted to rats of 1 day, 1 week, and 3 weeks of age. The use of this method to isolate hepatocytes from five or six rats of the respective ages demonstrated its reliability in terms of cell yield, percentage of single cells, and cell viability. In all cases, hepatocytes attach with high efficiency to fibronectin precoated dishes using serum-free culture medium. The dynamics of spreading is faster for newborn hepatocytes than adult ones. The functional integrity of these parenchymal liver cells was assessed by their capacity to secrete albumin and -fetoprotein in serum-free medium and to express lactate dehydrogenase activity over a 24-hr period in primary culture. 
4292452|Gap junctions are specialized regions of contact between apposed plasma membranes of communicating cells. They are composed of hexagonally arranged units (connexons) embedded in plasma membranes and linked together in the extracellular space. The three-dimensional structure of the connexon was obtained by Fourier analysis on specimens of isolated rat liver gap junctions. The connexon is an annular oligomer, composed of six subunits, that protrudes from both sides of the plasma membrane. The subunits are tangentially displaced about the connexon axis. A narrow channel is located along the connexon axis spanning the thickness of the junction, but it is greatly reduced in the hydrophobic zones of the membranes. Two closely related forms of isolated gap junctions which have different connexon subunit structures but the same hexagonal lattice, were obtained. The transition between the two forms of communicating junctions seen in isolation is produced by radial inward motion of the connexon subunits near their cytoplasmic surfaces and a reduction of their inclination tangential to the 6-fold axis. Similar rearrangement of essentially rigid subunits embedded in the membrane could provide a mechanism for modulation of the junction permeability.
20170496| Mutant strains of the moss Physcomitrella patens that were resistant to the antibiotics streptomycin and chloramphenicol were isolated following UV irradiation. Mutants resistant to streptomycin at 1.7  10 M showed both dominant and recessive Mendelian and inheritance patterns. Mutants resistant to streptomycin at 1.7  10 M and to chloramphenicol at 3.1  10 M were, with one exception, cytoplasmically inherited. 
4292897|Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the active component of bacterial endotoxin, caused no significant increase in ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity in serum-starved, Chinese hamster ovary fibroblasts. However, concurrent addition of LPS with 10% fetal bovine serum caused a synergistic 30 to 40-fold increase in enzyme activity as compared to the 10 to 20-fold increase seen after addition of serum alone. This synergism was not due to an alteration in the time course of enzyme induction after serum addition. The LPS-induced synergy of ODC induction by serum was inhibited by the concurrent addition of the specific LPS-antagonist, Polymyxin B.
20170407|Gelatin-specific protease activity from hamster lung fibroblasts and their culture media is described. The fibroblasts were derived from hamster lung explant cultures. The gelatin-specific protease activity is latent and seen only after dialysis of either cells or media. The enzyme activity shares many properties of previously reported gelatinases. The activity is inhibited by EDTA, cysteine, and dithioerythritol, whereas it is not inhibited by p-chloro-mecuribenzoate, N-ethyl maleimide, or phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. Of all substrates tested, activity was observed only against gelatin and not against other substrates tested. It was inactive toward collagen, elastin, and methemoglobin. This enzyme may have a role in the digestion of collagen that has been previously cleaved by mammalian collagenase.
4291929|Mammary epithelial cells from 16- to 17-day pregnant BALB/c mice were cultured in various mammalian sera to determine the kind of serum which stimulates optimal attachment efficiency and thymidine incorporation. Of those sera tested, horse, bovine, lamb, goat and fetal bovine provided the highest attachment efficiency, whereas rat, mouse and human gave the lowest. Rabbit serum stimulated the highest thymidine incorporation into TCA-insoluble material with goat and rat providing the lowest. These results suggest that sera which provide the highest attachment efficiency for primary cultures are not the best stimulants of DNA synthesis and show that an inverse relationship exists between cell attachment and thymidine incorporation for any given type of mammalian serum.
4292284|A unique population of human bone marrow-derived, adherent fibroblastlike cells differentiates to adipocyte morphology when grown in vitro in the presence of horse serum and hydrocortisone sodium hemisuccinate. Over the initial 8-weeks growth at 37 C, 7% CO
4292230|The nuclei and cytoplasm of N. gossei and N. tabacum are compatible to the extent that reciprocal, interspecific F
4291630|At 5 mM concentration, D-mannose, D-fructose, and D-galactose were not equivalent to glucose in their capacity to support growth of two strains of HeLa S3 cells. In addition, the amount of accumulated cell glycogen was much higher in cells grown in the glucose-containing medium than in media supplemented with other hexoses. In one of the cell strains, the glycolytic breakdown of mannose was relatively inefficient, resulting in toxic morphological manifestations and in markedly reduced growth. Similar toxic effects were observed in both cell strains when D-glucosamine and 2-deoxyglucose were added to the culture media. In one of the cell strains only D-glucosamine, 2-deoxyglucose, and D-mannose competed with glucose for glucose transport, while in the other cell strain some competition was observed also with D-fructose, D-galactose, and 3-O-methylglucose.
4292565| Several different classes of chemical carcinogens induced the transformation of human fibroblasts grown in vitro. Characteristics of the events that occur from time of treatment through the expression of neoplastic transformation are presented. The S-phase appeared to be the portion of the cell cycle most vulnerable to insult. Staging of the cells by blocking them in G
4291859|The morphogenesis of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) in three reptilian cell lines (turtle heart, gecko lung, and viper spleen) was studied by thin section electron microscopy. Simultaneous growth studies were conducted in reptilian, chick embryo fibroblast, and BHK/21 cells to compare the yields of infectious VSV during serial passages. The mean length of gecko lung cell VSV measured from electron micrographs is statistically significantly shorter than that of VSV replicating in other reptilian systems studied. This observation, along with comparative growth studies, suggests the predilection of gecko lung cells to form "auto-interfering" truncated "T" rather than infectious "B" VS virions.
4292168|In a very strict sense, the primary (gonadal) sex of mammals is determined not so much by the presence or absence of the Y but the expression or nonexpression of the evolutionary extremely conserved plasma membrane H-Y antigen. The central somatic blastema of embryonic indifferent gonads contains one cell lineage characterized by the possession of S-F differentiation antigen that differentiates into testicular Sertoli cells in the presence of H-Y and into ovarian follicular (granulosa) cells in its absence. This cell lineage appears to play the most critical role in gonadal differentiation. Whether or not testicular Leydig cells and ovarian theca cells are similarly derived from the common cell lineage has not been determined. Nevertheless, if given H-Y antigen, presumptive theca-cell precursors of the fetal ovary acquire hCG (LH?)-receptors-the characteristic of fetal Leydig cells.
4291802|The primary objective of this study was to obtain pure cultures of prostatic epithelium. Encapsulation by epithelial cells and hypocellularity in stroma occurred when explants of prostatic tissue were maintained in suspension cultures. Twenty per cent fetal bovine serum incorporated into the medium provided optimal conditions for encapsulation and preservation of epithelial cell viability and architecture. Horse serum at the same concentration was less effective. When encapsulated explants were allowed to attach to the substrate, 10 and 20% horse serum favored growth of epithelial cells while fetal bovine serum also stimulated fibroblastic growth. Mechanisms for the induction of hypocellularity, encapsulation, squamous metaplasia and central necrosis in explants were studied. Relationship between the type and concentration of serum and the nature and extent of outgrowth are discussed.
4292882|Rat liver epithelial cells explanted in a serum-free medium (SFM) composed of Ham's F10 basal medium plus free fatty acids adsorbed on bovine albumin gave successful rise to primary cultures and then to long-term cell lines that expressed liver functions; induction of L-tyrosine aminotransferase by glucocorticoids, hepatic pattern of progesterone metabolism, and biosynthesis of murine primary bile acids; chenodeoxy-cholic and cholic acid common to higher vertebrates and a-muricholic acid specific of the rat bile.
4292085|Shoot formation in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) callus is accompanied by an increase in peroxidase activity which takes a form similar to a sigmoid curve. The "stationary" phase coincides with the period of organ formation. Characteristic changes in isoperoxidase pattern are found in the shoot-forming part of the callus. These changes are different from those in the nonshoot-forming part or in gibberellin-treated tissue, which does not form shoots.
20170412|Endothelial cell and smooth muscle cell cultures from artery wall provide a potential model system for studying cellular processes involved in atherogenesis. To prepare serial subcultures of swine arterial endothelial cells that are free of smooth muscle cells without either selecting a small population or subjecting the cells to cytotoxic conditions, we used swine plasma-derived serum (SPDS) to establish conditions in which endothelial cells have a growth advantage. Endothelial cells were collected by collagenase digestion and smooth muscle cell cultures were prepared by outgrowth from explants of arterial medial segments. Growth rates were compared when each cell type was maintained on SPDS, or fetal bovine serum (FBS), or swine whole serum (SWS). When 20% FBS or SWS were used the doubling times were &lt;30 h for both endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells. On 20% SPDS the doubling time for endothelial cells was 32 h, but for smooth muscle cells it was at least 168 h. Using SPDS, we prepare endothelial subcultures from swine aorta that express principally polygonal morphology at confluence. Endothelial cell cultures grown on SPDS have higher angiotensin-converting enzyme than those grown on FBS.
4292056|The effect of temperature on inorganic mercury toxicity was investigated using kidney tissue culture systems. The relative susceptibility of rabbit (homeothermic) kidney to mercury intoxication was compared to that of Coho salmon (poikilothermic) kidney over temperature ranges consistent with the habitat of each of the two species. It was demonstrated that susceptibility to mercury toxicity is species dependent; that is, the rabbit kidney cells tolerated higher mercury concentrations in the medium than did the fish-derived cells. Within a given species, susceptibility to mercury toxicity was temperature dependent. Decreasing the temperature increased the toxicity of mercury to cultures of rabbit kidney cells, whereas decreasing temperatures decreased the effect of mercury toxicity on the salmon kidney cells. As a consequence, fish taken from arctic waters are liable to be more toxic when introduced into mammalian food chains. Albumin was shown to act as a protective agent in vitro against inorganic mercury toxicity.
4292763|Two continuous cell lines derived from long-term cultures of AKR mouse bone marrow adherent cells were isolated. These cell lines release colony stimulating activity (CSA), a factor that induces in vitro differentiation of granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cells. The colony forming cells and cluster forming cells in mouse marrow responsive to CSA from cell line conditioned medium were compared with those responsive to CSA from mouse lung conditioned medium (MLCM). Colony forming cells were characterized by analysis of their density distribution after equilibrium centrifugation in density gradient. Cluster forming cells were characterized by analyzing the progeny of individual clusters after transfer to fresh semisolid culture medium containing MLCM. The results obtained indicate that the CSA from cell line conditioned medium closely compares with the CSA from MLCM in terms of the populations of colony and cluster forming cells stimulated. Bone Marrow Adherent Cells
4291746|Roots, stems, or leaves of American (Panax quinquefolium) and Korean (Panax ginseng) ginseng were grown as callus or suspension tissue cultures. Tissue cultures of P. ginseng would occasionally form plantlets. The fundamental chemical composition, inorganic analysis, and saponin (panaquilin) content of American and Korean ginseng plants and tissue cultures were determined. The crude saponin content is very similar to, but approximately one-half (1.3%, fresh weight) of that present in ginseng roots. Two-dimensional thin layer Chromatographic analysis revealed minor differences in the panaquilins present in American and Korean ginseng tissue cultures. The sapogenin, panaxadiol, was isolated from Korean ginseng callus.
4291695|In an attempt to develop viable intimai linings for artificial vascular prostheses, an investigation was undertaken of methods to ensure cell deposition and adherence to microfabric-lined devices, and to stimulate cellular propagation on these surfaces. The WI-38 cell was used as a model. Technical procedures developed for seeding, adherence, and growth included: (a) degassing of the microfabrics before seeding to permit penetration of media, (b) centrifugation to seed cells forcibly into the microfabric, (c) containment of cells during the early stages of in vitro cultivation to prevent outgrowth of the newly seeded cells, and (d) perfusion of the cultures on a fixed schedule for removal of waste products and replacement with fresh media. Of the parylene C-coated polypropylene microfabrics tested, the nonvertically drafted, microwave discharge-treated fabrics were decidedly better suited for cell attachment of the WI-38 cell than multiple drafted or maximal drafted fabrics which provided less adequate surfaces for cell attachment. Although the adhesive used in cementing the microfabric to a backing is undoubtedly toxic, parylene C coating protects the cells. Nylon microfabrics tested to date proved deleterious to confluent cell growth. Gold fabrics were highly compatible with the cells.
4292646|Extensive karyotypic analyses of cultured celery cells were performed to assess variability with respect to the loss or gain of specific chromosome structural types and the nature and extent of chromosomal rearrangements. Among 40 karyotypes, produced from air dried protoplasts of celery suspension cultures, a net loss of long acrocentrics concomitant with a net increase in the number of short acrocentrics was observed as compared to the native karyotype. An average of 1.35 chromosomes per cell in these karyotypes exhibited distinct structural alterations. A technique developed to quantify and qualify actual loss or gain or both of chromosomes was used to determine that 67.5% of the cells were aneuploid, whereas all 40 cells exhibited clear karyotypic changes from the native karyotype. It was concluded that gross chromosome numbers were of little or no value in describing genetic variability at the chromosomal level of organization in this culture.
4292635|Procedures that involve cell cultures require careful quality control to avoid inter- and intraspecies contamination. We have developed an electrophoresis technique that can be used routinely in cell culture laboratories to monitor cell line integrity. The method involves the isoenzymatic separation of nine polymorphic enzymes, three of which can be used for cell line species determinations and seven of which can be used for human cell line characterizations. Examples of how the system has been applied to both inter- and intraspecies identifications are described. The routine application of this protocol would be a valuable asset for laboratories concerned with establishing effective cell culture quality control.
4292009|Human diploid fibroblast cultures plated at or below a density of
4292532| A continuous cell line, COLO 346, was established from a liver metastasis in a patient with adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder. COLO 346 grew as an adherent monolayer of pleomorphic epithelioid cells. COLO 346 cells produced esterone, but no estradiol, progesterone, or cortisol. No adrenocorticotropic hormone, -subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin, carcinoembryonic antigen, or -fetoprotein production by the cells was detected. Cell doubling time was 36 h. Seven allelic isozymes were assayed. COLO 346 had a chromosome mode of 74 at 21 months postestablishment with 6 marker chromosomes present in 100% of the cells analyzed. COLO 346 has been in continuous culture for over 2 yr and is available to other investigators for their studies. 
4291773|The primary goal of this study was to establish callus cultures of selected plant taxa containing both normal (N) and cytoplasmic male-sterile (CMS) lines. A secondary goal was to attempt to differentiate the calli into whole flowering plants. Undifferentiated and organ differentiated calli were produced in specific lines of N and CMS sorghum, pepper, sunflower, and tobacco. Calli from both N and CMS lines of a given species developed similarly and grew well. Even though whole flowering plants have not yet been produced from any of the lines, this approach allows for good production of callus for studies dealing with CMS.
4292721|Human retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)-derived cell lines were established from RPE-covered choroid tissue fragments, which had been generated by culture on nontissue culture plastic. Two phenotypes were apparent in a given line: (a) a compact cell which formed domes and ultimately melanosomes before being sloughed; and (b) a squamous cell which was often elongated and which bound antibody to human keratins. This latter cell did not become black or form domes. The average number of cell doublings for the 13 lines tested was between 15 and 40 when cultured in a modified Eagle's minimum essential medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum. Cell lines newly established from material that had been in culture for more than 6 months had normal mitotic chromosomes and still developed areas with strongly pigmented cells when refed. Normal human epithelial cell lines of this kind may be useful in studies of cell aging and defining change associated with the development of neural cells from ectoderm.
4292155|This paper reports techniques for isolation, selection and long-term passage of bovine aortic endothelium (BAE). A
4292036| A highly selected population of cells (clumps from 63 to 125 m in diameter), obtained by screening 14-day-old stock suspension cultures of wild carrot (Daucus carota L.), was used to initiate cultures in this study. Time-course changes in DNA, RNA and protein were followed when these cultures were grown in the presence or absence of 2.25 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The data show that growth of these cultures, particularly in the early part of the growth curve, is different from that in most other studies reported on suspension cultures initiated without screening. The gross compositional analysis shows that this difference stems from the very high RNA:DNA and protein:DNA ratios of the cellular material used as the inoculum in this study. The presence of 2,4-D in the medium promoted total RNA and protein levels. Correlations were sought between the appearance of embryos in the absence of exogenous 2,4-D and gross compositional differences developing in cultures grown in the presence and absence of 2,4-D. The handling of cultures during inoculation appeared to have led to a substantial loss of DNA. This had, however, little effect on dry weight or protein content of the tissue. 
4292561| After exposure of phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human lymphocytes to high doses of tritiated-thymidine labelled X-174 or T2 bacteriophage, label from the phage genome became incorporated into lymphocyte DNA. Exposure to bacteriophage DNA, whether biologically active, inactive, or fragmented, had a depressive effect on lymphocyte DNA replication. Incorporation of label from phage DNA into the lymphocyte DNA, however, was maximum for biologically active phage. 
4292499|Cells of the line 3BM-78 derived from murine bone marrow cells infected in vitro with polycythemic Friend leukemia virus (FLV-P) produce virus with spleen focus-forming activity (SFFV) and can be induced to synthesize hemoglobin. Fifteen clones, isolated from this line, have been analyzed in detail for the effect of different inducing agents (dimethyl-sulfoxide, DMSO; hexamethylene bisacetamide, HMBA; and sodium butyrate, SB) on the synthesis of hemoglobin and virus at the clonal level. All the clones proved to be inducible with one or more of the agents, but the degree of the response depended on the type and concentration of the agent used. In general, the effectiveness of the agent-within the usual range of concentration for induction-both for hemoglobin and for virus synthesis, was in the order HMBA > DMSO > SB. Reverse transcriptase activity was, however, more easily induced than hemoglobin synthesis in that stimulation was seen at lower concentrations of the same inducing agent. This clonal analysis confirmed that virus and hemoglobin production are regulated independently in these erythroleukemic cells chronically infected with FLV-P.
4292589|The cell-type composition of the initial cell population from protease-dispersed neonatal rat heart tissue has been evaluated using time lapse photography and identification of cell type-specific functions. The effects of two commonly employed plating densities on growth and cell division of the two major cell types were examined. Total protein synthesis rates were not affected by plating density but did change with age in culture. Maximum protein synthesis rates were observed during the period of maximum cell division and cell growth (increase in total cell protein), which was from 24 h in culture to the 4th d in culture. After 6 d in culture, synthesis rates for total protein remained constant for at least 2 wk. Sizing of cells by Coulter counter analysis indicated that essentially all the cells were increasing in size with age in culture. Measurements of cell numbers and rate of DNA synthesis indicated that the extent of cell division was dependent on plating density. Cells disaggregated from neonatal rat hearts consisted of approximately 75% muscle cells and 25% nonmuscle cells. This composition approximates the cell-type composition of the intact neonatal rat heart. In high density cultures there is little cell division and the relative proportions of the cell types are preserved with time in culture. In low density cultures, proliferation of nonmuscle cells is a significant process and the composition of the cell population changes drastically during the first 2 to 3 d in culture. These results suggest that the low plating density used by many researchers may limit correlation of data derived from such cultures with the physiological state. It also indicates that plating densities should be given in published accounts for comparisons to be made with results from other laboratories.
4292520| Two cell lines were established from explants of trunk musculature of healthy, males sand seatrout, Cynoscion arenarius. One of the lines, designated CyA-1, has been carried through 150 subcultures during 6 yr. The other, designated CyA-2, has been carried through 100 subcultures during 2 yr. Both lines grow well in L15 medium adjusted to 0.150 M NaCl and supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Optimal growth occurs at temperatures between 24 and 30 C. The species of origin of both lines was confirmed by a cytotoxic antibody dye exclusion test. The karyotype of CyA-1 has not yet stabilized, showing a modal chromosome number of 120 at Passage 9, 89 at Passage 63, and 79 at Passage 100. The karyotype of CyA-2 is rather stable, with a modal chromosome number of 47 at Passage 1 and 49 at Passage 100. Chromosome morphology of CyA-2 is homogeneous (small, acrocentric), whereas the chromosomes of CyA-1 show considerable size variation (with small chromosomes possibly formed from fragmentation of original structures). Both lines were found to be free of bacterial or fungal contamination. Both lines supported replication of lymphocystis virus strains isolated from Bairdiella chrysura (the silver perch) and from Micropogon undulatus (the Atlantic croaker) but were refractory to 11 other viruses (4 from fish, 1 from amphibians, and 6 from mammals). 
4292753|A technique for the organ culture of postnatal and adult rat liver has been developed. Liver slices, 0.3 mm thick, were maintained in Conway units at the interphase between medium and a
4292514|In contrast to neonatal rat heart cells in culture, embryonic myocardial cells form colonies. They also differ from neonatal cells in their appearance and behavior; they have fewer striations, fewer binucleated cells, loose packing and sorting from nonmuscle cells, and most of all a greater capacity to divide.
4292639| The influence of adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) on radiolabeled ascorbic acid (AA) accumulation by adrenocortical cells was examined in primary cultures of collagenase dissociated glands from adult male rats. The cells were ACTH responsive by morphological and steroidogenic criteria. After 5 d in AA-free medium, cells pretreated with 100 mU/ml ACTH for 3 d took up two to three times more AA over a 2 h period than did untreated controls (4.0 to 10.0 nmol versus 1.7 to 3.4 nmol AA/g DNA). In contrast, ACTH administered on Day 6 concurrently with AA inhibited AA accumulation compared to cultures exposed to AA alone. This acute inhibitory effect of ACTH was in the order of 30% in cultures pretreated with ACTH for 3 d but was not significant (7%) without ACTH pretreatment. The results show that ACTH has distinct long term stimulatory and acute inhibitory effects on AA accumulation by adrenocortical cells and suggest that both maximal AA accumulation and the responsiveness to acute inhibition of AA accumulation by ACTH may depend on the maintenance of the differentiated state of the adrenal cortex. 
20170383| Procedures were established for clonal multiplication in vitro of Cordyline terminalis Kunth, Dracaena godseffiana Hort., Scindapsus aureus Engler, and Syngonium podophyllum Schott. Shoot tips of actively growing terminals were selected as explants for Cordyline and Dracaena, and lateral buds were employed for Scindapsus and Syngonium. The basal nutrient medium contained Murashige and Skoog salts, 3% sucrose, 100 mg per l i-inositol, and 0.4 mg per l thiamine  HCl. The optima with respect to auxin, cytokinin, adenine sulfate  2HO, and NaHPO  HO addenda were determined. Also assessed were the influences of certain physical qualities of the nutrient medium and of the light intensity of the culture environment. The multiplication of each of the four plants was achieved by repeatedly subculturing the shoots that arose in vitro. Rates of plant increase per year per explant were calculated conservatively to be as follows: Syngonium, 5,000; Scindapsus, 100,000; Dracena, 300,000; and Cordyline, 500,000. 
4292078|Studies employing [
4292388|Assessment of DNA repair in cultured human fibroblasts by autoradiography may be facilitated by using semiautomated grain counting instruments. The instrument-determined number of autoradiographic grains per nucleus in cultured human skin fibroblasts was found to be linear in comparison to visual counts up to only 30 grains per nucleus. However, with two different instruments a greater range of linearity (to 100 to 120 grains per nucleus) was attained by measuring the grain surface area per nucleus. Semiautomated analysis of the grain surface area per nucleus yielded measurements of relative rates of unscheduled DNA synthesis after ultraviolet irradiation in xeroderma pigmentosum and normal human fibroblasts, which were reproducible and rapid.
4292282|The effect of various types of serum on morphological and biochemical changes in mouse neuroblastoma cells ($clone
4291542|An internal control mechanism capable of controlling gonadotrophic hormone secretion in the human trophoblast has been identified by incubation of an established cell line with a precursor of progesterone. Biological, biochemical, and electron microscopic findings verify inhibition of gonadotrophic hormone synthesis, depletion of glycogen, activation of phosphorylase, the glycogen-metabolizing enzyme, and ultrastructural appearance of liquid-containing cytoplasmic granules in single cells, indicative of steroid synthesis.
20170458| Isolated parenchymal hepatocytes from adult rats were frozen in media containing 10% glycerol, 10% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), or 20% DMSO. Three microsome-associated functions were compared in nonfrozen cells and cells frozen in each of the above cryoprotectant solutions. Freezing in DMSO maintains cytochromes P-450 and b and NADPH-cytochrome C reductase at levels nearer to control values than does freezing in glycerol. Cells frozen and subsequently thawed and cultured for 24 h lose a greater amount of cytochrome P-450 than do nonfrozen cultured cells. The levels of cytochrome b and reductase in frozen-thawed cells remain close to control values. Cell viability (trypan blue dye exclusion and percentage of attached cells) after freezing is maintained better using DMSO as a cryoprotectant. Dimethylsulfoxide protects the hepatocytes from freeze-induced damage to the extent that many viable cells attach to collagen-coated petri dishes, survive for at least 24 h, and still maintain significant levels of enzymes of importance to drug and carcinogen metabolism. 
4292430|KLN205 cells, a cloned cell line established from the Nettesheim lung carcinoma, grow in various synthetic media such as MEM, Fisher's or Roswell Park Memorial Institute Medium (RPMI) with the addition of 5 to 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS), calf serum (CS) or horse serum (HS). They grow optimally in minimum Eagle's medium plus nonessential amino acids (NEAA) plus 5 to 10% FBS or HS. The cells are transplantable to DBA/2,
4291883|Several cell lines from the pupae of the noctuid moth species Spodoptera frugiperda, Heliothis zea, and Trichoplusia ni were isolated on a synthetic medium containing insect hemolymph and turkey serum. These lines were progressively adapted to improved media free of insect hemolymph but containing one or more of the following sera: turkey, chicken, and fetal calf. Primary culture tissue disruption was improved by substituting collagenase for trypsin. Primary culture survival was improved by controlling the total tissue volume per unit medium volume, and by the addition of glutathione to prevent melanization and to improve cell adherence to the substrate. Culture survival was also improved by heat treatment of sera, control of medium osmolality, and changes in the basal medium and serum supplementation. Some of these changes also resulted in improved growth giving higher maximal cell counts. Comparative cell growth on the various media was graphed and generation times given.
4291930|Trachoma organisms of serotype B were grown serially in irradiated cells (McCoy, BHK-21, Microbiological Associates, and BHK-21, Lister) and tested for infectivity in monolayers of five mammalian cell lines (BHK-21, CHO,
4292552|Cell suspension cultures were initiated from shoot tips of nine plants of alfalfa. Our results indicated that considerably different nutritional conditions were required to induce embryogenesis in the cell cultures derived from these plants. By proper adjustment of the hormone level and mineral salt concentration it was possible to induce embryogenesis in all of the nine cultures tested. The embryoids from seven of the nine cultures were able to develop into plants.
20170304|Enzymatically dissociated lungs from rat fetuses at 19-days gestation yield single cells which reaggregate to form alveolar-like structures when cultured on gelatin sponge discs. These structures form within 2 days and have been maintained in vitro for as long as 6 weeks. They are composed primarily of type II pneumonocytes as characterized by large, lightly stained nuclei and cytoplasmic inclusion bodies. The lamellar structure of these inclusion bodies has been confirmed by electron microscopy. The dynamic formation of inclusion bodies is suggested by the presence of lamellar bodies in the extra-cellular space and the appearance of new inclusions in the cytoplasm of the type II pneumonocytes. The formation and long-term maintenance of histotypic lung structures in vitro provides a model system for the study of lung development and synthesis of surfactant by type II alveolar pneumonocytes.
4291838|The plating efficiencies of two cell lines (HeLa-AT and WI26 Va) and one cell strain (KL2) appeared to be optimal at pH 7.6. At the optimal pH, using organic buffers, the serum concentration could be reduced by one-half without affecting the initial growth rate or the final population density of the human skin fibroblast strain, KL2. It is suggested that an optimal pH lowers the serum requirement of the cells. The incorporation of
4291739|Tobacco protoplasts obtained from leaf mesophyll cells and suspended in agar nutrient medium divided and produced colonies only when plated at high densities, above 10
4291871|Collagen is produced by WI-38 diploid human fibroblast cultures throughout their life cycle. It is examined by a sensitive method based on the analysis of specific peptides obtained after digestion with bacterial collagenase. The production and hydroxylation of the collagen is strongly dependent upon the age (population doublings) of the culture and the presence of ascorbic acid. Young cultures (passage 26) produce large amounts of collagen in the absence of ascorbic acid, and this collagen is about 50% hydroxylated compared to that produced by young cultures in the presence of ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid reduces to about one-half the amount of collagen produced by these young cultures. The young confluent cultures also depend strongly on ascorbic acid for hydroxylation of proline. The dependence declines rapidly with the age of the culture. The collagen produced by young cultures supplied with ascorbic acid is very similar to the type I collagen produced by normal individuals and has about the same degree of hydroxylation of its prolyl residues. The amount of collagen produced by "older" cultures is unaffected by ascorbic acid, but the degree of hydroxylation is normal only if ascorbic acid is present, and is decreased to about 60 to 70% in the absence of the vitamin. "Senescent" cultures showed little, if any, dependency on ascorbic acid, and the collagen produced, with and without the vitamin, is about 80% hydroxylated. The prolyl hydroxylation system of the WI-38 cells and the various controls on the system are age-dependent.
4291921|Cell lines have been developed from several species of Australian marsupials and studied during long-term growth. Cell lines developed from macropodid skin or heart tissues all had reproducible finite life-spans. However, cell lines developed from dasyurids showed variable behavior in culture: lines developed from Antechinus stuartii and Dasyurus viverrinus had finite life-spans, while lines developed from Sminthopsis crassicaudata had indefinite life-spans. S. crassicaudata lines usually became heteroploid, but one was still diploid after 150 population doublings, while another contained a proportion (10%) of haploid cells. Other lines were developed from the peramelid, Perameles nasuta, and the phalangerid, Trichosurus vulpecula.
4292686|A simple reproducible method is described for isolating pure clonal populations of bovine aortic endothelial cells in culture. Single cells exposed to conditioned medium grow rapidly (clonal cell doubling time approximately 20 h) until a confluent monolayer is reached. This method provides virtually 100% cloning efficiency. In addition, the cell population doubling level of endothelial cell cultures, when continuously exposed to conditioned medium, is increased 40% over controls in fresh medium.
20170406|Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. 'Wisconsin 38') callus growth was inhibited progressively by gentamicin sulfate at all concentrations tested. Gentamicin inhibited shoot initiation from tobacco callus and salpiglossis [Salpiglossis sinuata (Ruiz and Pav.) 'Bolero'] leaf discs at concentrations above 25 mg/1. At 100 mg/1 the antibiotic suppressed completely organogenesis from explants of both tobacco and salpiglossis.
4292617|In the present paper, we will summarize studies we have performed on two distinct human lymphocyte cell surface antigens defined by monoclonal antibodies: Leu-1 and HLA-DR.
4292898|Recently, the successful in vitro cultivation of the Nichols strain of Treponema pallidum was achieved. Afterward, attempts were made to cultivate three other strains of T. pallidum and two strains of T. pertenue. The cultivation of the KKJ, Mexico A, and Bosnia A strains of T. pallidum was somewhat successful; the average increases were 10.8, 9.1, and 7.5-fold, respectively. The range of growth for each of these strains varied dramatically from experiment to experiment. The KKJ strain varied from 14.4 to 8.0-fold; the Mexico A strain from 12.8 to 5.4-fold; and the Bosnia A strain from 11.3 to 3.6-fold. However, the attempts to cultivate the Gauthier and the FB strains of T. pertenue were unsuccessful. The average increases were 1.7 and 1.9-fold, respectively. Although the maximum growth observed was about threefold with either of these strains of T. pertenue, over 50% of the treponemes remained motile for 10 d. These results suggest that although each of these strains of T. pallidum and T. pertenue has been shown to be genetically identical, they are very diverse biologically even among strains of the same species.
4291730|Primary cell cultures from neonatal rat ventricles were continuously exposed for 7 days in a modified roller apparatus to defined pericellular oxygen tension varying from 0.6 to 600 mm Hg. 5-Fluorodeoxyuridine was added to the medium to prevent overgrowth of muscle cells by nonmuscle cells. A pericellular pO
4292428|Epithelial cells can be cultured from the urine of newborn infants, providing a simple, noninvasive biopsy method. We established such cultures by standard techniques from 44% of uncontaminated specimens obtained from newborn infants up to 1 week of age. There was an average of three colonies per milliliter of urine. Many cultures accomplished 15 to 25 population doublings in as many as five subcultures and yielded total potential culture sizes of
4292411|Four hematopoietic cell lines (CCRF-CEM, HSB-2, MOLT-4, and RPMI-8402), derived from acute lymphoblastic leukemia and expressing T-cell surface markers (T-HCL), were studied with two specific anti-T-cell sera. The sera were raised in rabbits against human thymocytes (anti-HTY) and against T-cells cultured in the presence of conditioned medium derived from lymphocytes stimulated with PHA (anti-CTC). Both sera were absorbed to obtain a T-cell specific pattern of reaction and were further absorbed with normal peripheral blood lymphocytes or with each of the four T-HCL. The anti-HTY sera absorbed with CEM, 8402, and HSB-2 still reacted with MOLT-4. A similar pattern of reactivity was found only with the anti-CTC absorbed with 8402, whereas, after absorptions with the other cell lines, this antiserum was unreactive against MOLT-4. After absorption with normal peripheral blood lymphocytes, anti-HTY still reacted with thymocytes and MOLT-4 but was negative on CTC. In contrast, anti-CTC absorbed with peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) was negative on thymocytes and MOLT-4 but still reacted against CTC. Our data confirm the existence of a T-cell antigen (probably an early T-cell differentiation antigen) shared between thymus and MOLT-4. This antigen is not expressed on CTC, although these cells express an antigenic pattern more complex than PBL. Antisera to CTC represents a source of anti-T-cell sera free of contamination with antibodies to early thymus-related antigens but containing other T-cell-related specificities.
4292822|High concentrations of Escherichia coli asparaginase (80 U/ml) altered the binding of concanavalin A (Con A) to L 5178Y murine lymphoma cells that are sensitive to the cytotoxic action of this enzyme. Incubation of the asparaginase sensitive line in asparagine-free media or media containing Acinetobacter glutaminase-asparaginase did not alter the Con A binding of these cells. Escherichia coli asparaginase had no effect on Con A binding of two asparaginase resistant L5178Y cell lines that were isolated and maintained in asparagine depleted or asparaginase containing medium. The E. coli asparaginase preparation inhibited protein and glycoprotein biosynthesis to comparable degrees. It did not have proteolytic or glycolytic activity. Escherichia coli asparaginase did not alter the binding of wheat germ, soybean or ricin agglutinins to any of these cell lines. These data suggest that high concentrations of E. coli asparaginase have a specific effect on the Con A receptor in the sensitive line.
4292438|Pistils of Trifolium repens L. and T. ambiguum Bieb. were cultured on an agar-based modified Murashige-Skoog medium. Pistils with and without accessory floral parts were removed from flowers of selected clones of T. repens, hand-pollinated under aseptic conditions, and planted on the medium. Pistils cultured without accessory floral parts showed no evidence of fertilization after 2 weeks. However, 52% of those T. repens pistils cultured with calyx lobes and pedicels contained ovules with maturing embryos 12 days after in vitro cross-pollination. Pistils from T. ambiguum intraspecific cross-pollinations could not be cultured successfully under the same conditions; however, addition of various combinations of auxin, cytokinin, and gibberellic acid enhanced embryo growth. Fertilization and partial embryo development occurred in interspecific crosses between T. ambiguum and T. repens or T. hybridum only when T. ambiguum was used as the pistillate parent. These results indicate that embryological development under in vitro conditions closely parallels in situ development although growth regulator requirements may vary among species.
4292530|An endothelial cell line has been established from a primary culture of cerebral micro-vessels isolated from Swiss-Webster mice. The microvessels were isolated by a mechanical dispersion and filtration technique. The cells that emerged from these microvessels, maintained in organoid cultures, proliferated and formed plaques of a single or mixed cell type. The endothelial cell line, designated ME-2, was isolated from one such morphologically homogeneous cell plaque, using both cloning ring techniques and C
4291570|Cultures derived from C3H/He mouse embryos were grown in medium NCTC 135 supplemented with horse serum, fetal bovine serum, or various combinations of large and small molecule fractions of horse and fetal bovine serum. Cultures in medium NCTC 135 alone or in medium 135 supplemented with the small molecule fraction of either horse or fetal bovine serum did not grow as continuous long term lines. The best growth was obtained when the cultures were in medium containing the large molecule fraction of fetal bovine serum either alone or in combination with a small molecule fraction. Cells grown in the presence of the low molecular weight fraction of horse serum invariably produced tumors on injection into syngeneic animals. Cells in the small molecular weight fraction of fetal bovine serum combined with the large molecular weight fraction of horse serum produced tumors after a prolonged period in vitro.
4292084|Isoleucine deficiency sensitizes C3H 10T1/2 cells to the cytotoxic effects of MNNG. Synchrony of proliferation is not required for this effect since it occurs prior to full growth arrest and subsequent establishment of synchronous proliferation after refeeding in complete medium. Furthermore, confluence arrest of proliferation of 10T1/2 cells does not affect their cytotoxic response to MNNG, although they proliferate synchronously after replating at low density. In contrast, the toxicity of MNNG for CHO cells is not altered by isoleucine deficiency, even though these cells are readily synchronized by refeeding in complete medium after transient isoleucine deficiency.
4291872|Two cell types, one epithelioid and the other fibroblast-like, were found in human testicular cultures derived from testes of patients. Ultrastructural studies indicated that, whereas the epithelioid cells were Sertoli cells, the fibroblast-like cells were fibroblasts. The Sertoli cells could maintain growth for a period of more than 4 months. In cultures derived from normal testes, only fibroblasts were observed.
4292053|Leaf discs approximately 8 mm in diameter taken from green and from chlorotic areas of variegated leaves of Coleus were grown in light under sterile conditions in a mineral salt, sucrose, vitamin medium supplemented with auxin and cytokinin. Green shoots, which later formed roots, grew from both green and chlorotic discs in media containing suitable amounts of auxin and cytokinin. None developed in media supplemented with auxin alone or with cytokinin alone. Discs with young plants were transferred to soil. Plants that grew varied widely from those with no chlorosis to those with more chlorosis than the original variety from which the discs were taken. Plants grown from discs taken from green areas of leaves with chlorosis varied in patterns of chlorosis as much as those that grew from discs from chlorotic areas of leaves.
20170355|The placenta consists largely of fetal tissue, yet at term it displays histological signs of deterioration not apparent in the fetus. To determine whether the apparent degeneration of the placenta is genetically determined, the life-spans of placental cell cultures and the proportion of placental cells capable of incorporating [H]thymidine for replicative DNA synthesis in vitro were measured. Under the culture conditions employed, the placental cells were removed from the influence of many extrinsic factors thought to play a role in the degeneration of the placenta in vivo. Cultures of fibroblast-like cells derived from the placenta exhibited a reduced life-span and correspondingly reduced proportion of cells able to incorporate [H]thymidine for DNA synthesis in comparison to cultures derived from the fetal skin and the maternal decidua. These results suggest that intrinsic cellular processes may be involved in the apparent degeneration of the placenta.
4291837|Patulin exhibits both cytotoxic and cytopathic effects on cultured Chang liver cells. The LD
4292293|The induction of HeLa cell alkaline phosphatase activity by sodium butyrate could be inhibited by the coadministration of caffeine or theophylline. The inhibitions were dose dependent, and at any given concentration the potency was theophylline > caffeine. Although the induction by sodium butyrate was more sensitive to the inhibition by the xanthines than was that produced by 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine, the magnitudes of the increases in cyclic AMP concentrations after treatment with the xanthines were similar in the inhibition of both types of induction. The induction of alkaline phosphatase activity by sodium butyrate also produced a shift in the thermostability pattern of the enzyme, with a proportionately greater increase in the heat-labile, rather than heat-stable, form of the activity.
4292899|All cells examined from the non-B, non-T acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line, NALL-1, stained positive both for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase and for common ALL antigen. In addition, peroxidase activity was detected by light microscopy in 55 to 75% of cells and peroxidase-positive granules were detected ultrastructurally in >80% of cells. Peroxidase activity in NALL-1 may result from derepression of peroxidase genes or clonal proliferation of a biphenotypic precursor cell.
4291627|Callus cultures of anthers of the amphiploid Nicotiana suaveolens x Nicotiana langsdorffi (N = 25) were maintained on media with and without growth-promoting substances, and under different light intensities or photoperiods. The effect of these conditions on chromosome number was examined. Chromosome numbers ranged from 10 to 53 in the first subculture, and by the fourth (on basic medium), this had narrowed to 28 to 48 (median class, 41 to 50). The only statistically significant difference in effect of media on chromosome number was found when kinetin alone was added. Under low light conditions (50 to 80 ft-c), but not under high (1400 ft-c), the distribution in chromosome numbers was significantly different in populations grown under continuous light and 18- and 12-hr light periods.
4292867|The resting membrane potential of the cultured fibroblasts derived from rabbit subcutaneous tissues was
4292701| Using skin fibroblastlike cells from 10 healthy volunteers, 12 to 54 yr old, we measured, in replicates, seeding efficiency (SE), plating efficiency (PE), and population doublings (PD) during 2 wk of growth and the cumulative replicative life span (CRLS). We determined the effects of donor age and of in vitro cell age on the test results and test precision. We found that (a) On the average, SE was 82%  24 SD, PE was 12%  9 SD, PD was 7.3 doublings  2.5 SD, and CRLS was 31.1 doublings  9.6 SD. (b) Plating efficiency and PD correlated well with each other and with CRLS whereas SE did not correlate with PE, PD, or CRLS. (c) Plating efficiency and PD were affected negatively by increasing passage levels and by donor ages, but the influence of age was evident only for cells from early passages. Seeding efficiency was not affected by either of the two variables. (d) Variations in PD from early passages explained half of the donor-to-donor variation in CRLS whereas PD from later passages had little or no predictive power. (e) Of the two short term tests, PD had better precision than PE. For replicate runs with cells from early passages the coefficient of variation was 44% for PE and 15% for PD. The results show that PD for cells from early passages in mass culture give rapid results, which express the in vitro replicating potential of cells from different donors with greater precision than do measurements of CRLS. 
4291705|A procedure has been developed for the accurate, quick, and simple indexing of the growth of insect cell monolayers with a reticule in the eyepiece of an inverted phase-contrast microscope. A magnification of x500 is desirable for accuracy and ease of counting. Cell nuclei whose circumferences include any of the 25 points in the reticule are enumerated in each microscopic field. Counts of as few as five fields gave an error of 18.8% per flask. Ten fields gave an error of 11.5% and provided a sufficiently accurate comparison for many purposes. Forty counts allowed the measurement of differences between treatments with an error of 5.85%. A large number of treatments can be handled simultaneously, due to the small number of replicates necessary and the small amount of time required per treatment. When the capacity of different batches of lactalbumin hydrolysate to support growth was tested in our insect tissue culture medium, some of them were found to be suitable and others unsuitable. Doubling time of cell populations was measured, after the ratio of the average area of the nuclei at time 0 to that at time X was used to multiply the number of nuclei counted at time X. Average nuclear areas were satisfactorily measured by simple measurements of nuclear diameter on an ocular micrometer. The cell nuclei tended to decrease in area when cell monolayers reached confluence or became crowded. The number of replicates required was reduced, because the same flask could be used several times without disturbing the cell monolayer. The method of counting nuclei in a monolayer by means of reticule points and a phase-contrast microscope can also be adapted to the estimation of the absolute number of cells growing on the bottom of a flask.
20170366|The studies reported here were undertaken to determine if Erysipelothrix crude extract (CE) could elicit consistent, detectable alterations in synovial cells in vitro. Synovial cells of rabbits were cultured in vitro and data about normal synovial cells in vitro were presented. Such cells were consistently and characteristically affected by exposure to small amounts of CE; an effect that was neutralized in the presence of specific anti-CE anti-serum. With an increase in the amount of CE added to the cells in culture, a decreasing number of cells was formed but protein content remained relatively constant.
4292469|This report describes a serum-free system for studying the fetal mouse genital tract in organ culture. Using the techniques of isoelectric focusing and gel electrophoresis of polypeptides synthesized by the organ explant in culture, the biochemical integrity of as little as 1 to 2 mg of this tissue was determined during the period of culture. Thus, differentiation of the fetal genital tissue in organ culture can be assessed by both morphological and biochemical criteria.
20170417| Nutrient medium WAJC 401 containing 5 g/ml insulin, 10 ng/ml EGF, 10 ng/ml cholera toxin, 50 g/ml pituitary extract, 1 g/ml prolactin, 1 M dexamethasone, and 5% horse serum supports the rapid proliferation of rat ventral prostate epithelial cells in primary culture. The same medium suppresses the growth of prostate fibroblasts. 
4292089|Conditioned media of a primary mouse embryo and a mouse cell line were compared as sources of colony-stimulating factor. The incorporation of embryo cell conditioned medium into semisolid cultures of mouse bone-marrow cells induced the formation of a larger number of in vitro colonies than did the addition of equal volumes of LM cell conditioned medium. This finding did not appear to be the result of quantitative differences in the levels of C.S.F. between the sources since concentration of the LM cell conditioned preparation did not enhance effectively the number of colonies produced. Both the colonial morphology and the cellular components of the developing colonies were found to differ in accordance with the C.S.F. source employed for stimulation. Colonies that developed under the influence of embryo cell conditioned medium were typically larger and more disperse than were those produced in cultures stimulated with the LM cell conditioned source. The latter colonies were smaller, more compact and contained fewer cells. Differences also were noted in the relative proportion of granulocytes to mononuclear cells comprising the colonies. Those colonies stimulated with LM cell conditioned medium rapidly underwent a transition from primarily a granulocytic composition to one comprised principally of mononuclear cells. Cultures stimulated with embryo cell conditioned medium contained a greater number of granulocytic colonies which persisted for a protracted period during cultivation. The addition of 2-mercaptoethanol to cultures stimulated with embryo cell conditioned medium increased the number of colonies produced. Such synergy did not occur in cultures stimulated with the LM cell conditioned medium.
20170357|Mitotic cells from the H-4-IIE-C3 rat hepatoma tissue culture line showed a range of 45 to 53 chromosomes per cell with 75% of the cells displaying a chromosome number between 49 and 52. Analysis of Wright's-Giemsa banded karyotypes of 22 cells revealed considerable cell to cell variation. Twenty-one structurally abnormal chromosomes were identified in these cells; the origin of nine of the 21 chromosomes were identified in these cells; the origin of nine of the 21 chromosomes could be determined. Of the structurally abnormal chromosomes detected, only one (M-1) occurred with a sufficiently high frequency to be of general use as a marker for these cells. This marker appears to be a Robertsonian translocation involving chromosome number 2 and chromosome number 10.
4292518|Juvenile hormones (JH), congeners of retinoic acid, were examined for their capacity to inhibit cell cycle progression and chemically induced expression of endogenous xenotropic retrovirus in Kirsten sarcoma virus-transformed BALB (K-BALB) mouse cells. JHI, II, and III were found to inhibit induction of virus by 5-iododeoxyuridine (IUdR) and histidinol (Hdl) in a concentration-dependent fashion. Some inhibition of macromolecular synthesis was observed upon culture of the cells with JH; the most affected was RNA synthesis, which was reduced 27 to 40% within 4 h by the juvenoids. Epoxide hydrase (EH) activity, as determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), was present in amounts sufficient for the cells to convert the hormones metabolically to an ultimate form. A contact-inhibited K-BALB variant was synchronized by mitotic arrest and the cell cycle-specific effect of JHIII on virus induction during S phase was studied. JHIII added during G
20170309|Microscopic slides were mounted with paraffin on Teflon plates that contain 18 holes of 6 mm diameter each. This arrangement is reversible and yields 18 individual cell culture wells on one slide, thus allowing a simultaneous culture of different cell lines under identical conditions. The glass-paraffin junction can be easily detached and the paraffin sticks exclusively to the Teflon.
4292296|The effect of variations in culture conditions on survival of fragments of mouse and rat descending colon in organ culture was studied by morphological and functional criteria. A combination of conditions demonstrated to be beneficial permitted maintenance for at least 35 days. These included: a gaseous environment of
4291996|The embryogenetic response of cultured Daucus carota L. 'Queen Anne's Lace' callus was employed to attempt fractionation and identification of a repressive factor produced by Citrus medica L. ovules. The factor was evidently synthesized and released into the medium continuously, inasmuch as citron ovules that had been autoclaved with the medium were completely ineffective. The inhibition could be attributed to volatile and nonvolatile components. A substantial part of the inhibition was prevented by continuously refreshing the atmosphere within the cultures with filtered air. Monitoring of the gases produced by citron ovule sections under conditions simulating bioassays disclosed significant evolution of carbon dioxide, ethylene and ethanol. Repression of embryogenesis was not averted by trapping the liberated ethylene. On the other hand, ethanol in concentrations equivalent to those released by citron ovules suppressed asexual embryogenesis dramatically. The adverse effect of ethanol was reversed immediately upon transfer to ethanol-free medium. Another investigation had disclosed anti-embryogenetic effects of auxin, abscisic acid and gibberellin. Analysis of Citrus ovules excised from young fruits disclosed those of monoembryonic citron to contain concentrations of IAA, ABA and GA
4291786|The morphological, chromosomal, and biological characteristics of a cell line derived from a human chondrosarcoma have been described. At the time of this report, the cell line has undergone 102 passages and continues to exhibit an epithelioid appearance, a modal number of 69 chromosomes, and has retained malignant properties. This cell line is easily cultivated in vitro or in vivo and may prove useful in human cancer research.
4291819|1. Mouse LS cells grow in completely mixed steady-state continuous suspension ("chemostat") culture in defined medium. 2. The steady-state concentration of cells is maximal at a dilution rate of 0.30 to
4292621|A somatic cell genetic technique has recently been developed that makes it possible to obtain very large amounts of homogeneous antibodies and to replenish the supply of the exact same antibodies whenever they are needed. This hybridoma technology has already contributed to major scientific advances and will surely improve the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. Because the technology itself is relatively simple and inexpensive, it has captured the attention of basic scientists, clinicians, and industrial managers and investors.
20170379|Mouse L cells (clone 1D) were fused with polyethylene glycol (PEG). The fusion sequence was determined by using sequential light microscopy of the same group of cells, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy, and freezeetching. The cells were found to fuse only 1 min after PEG had been washed off at small localized areas. Larger fusion images were found after 3 min. Intramembrane particles were observed to have a tendency to aggregate after PEG treatment, but a direct correlation of this activity with the fusion process could not be made. No pathological changes were noted at longer times after PEG removal, except for the extensive widening of the rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum (RER) in some cells. It is proposed that fusion does not occur if apposing cells have many microvilli at the area of apparent contact.
4291797|The tissue culture medium taken from 7-day-old cultures of human cancer cells was filtered and the filtrate (TCTA) was used to activate autologous lymphocytes. The activated lymphocytes were found to inhibit the growth of autologous human cancer cells in vitro but not the growth of normal autologous cells, allogeneic tumor cells, or xenogeneic tumor cells. Autologous serum blocked activation of the lymphocytes. Further, autologous serum, when incubated with autologous tumor cells, prevented the inhibition of tumor cell growth by activated lymphocytes. Marked specificity was noted in these studies, which suggests that these reactions may be of value in isolating human cancer antigens. Thus, TCTA may be a source of soluble tumor-specific antigens.
4291785|A striking reduction in alkaline phosphatase activity occurs when KB cells (originally derived from a human nasopharyngeal carcinoma) are grown in hyperosmolar media and/or with prednisolone. This reduction is accompanied by the transition of the activity from predominantly heat-labile to heat-sTable and by changes in susceptibility to inhibition by inorganic phosphate. Cell multiplication is required for these effects. The alkaline phosphatase of control cultures is significantly less sensitive to inhibition than the enzyme of KB cells with reduced activity. This quantitative difference is correlated with enzyme thermostability. To obtain the same degree of inhibition, greater amounts of phosphate are required for the heat-stable activity than for the heat-labile activity.
4291788|Protoplasts isolated enzymatically from leaves of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), stem callus of petunia (Petunia hybrida), and roots of corn (Zea mays) seedlings were grown aseptically in microchambers, liquid droplets, or in stationary suspension cultures. Cell wall regeneration occurred within 2 days in petunia, 6 to 7 days in tobacco, and 10 days in corn protoplasts. In petunia protoplasts, cell divisions ensued immediately after cell wall formation, and a colony of 30 to 40 cells was produced in 10 to 15 days after culture. Tobacco protoplasts took a longer time for the initiation of cell division activity and the formation of a cell colony. Plating of cell colonies derived from petunia and tobacco protoplasts, separately, resulted in larger sized cell masses, each of which formed a callus tissue when transferred to fresh nutrient media. Auxins and cytokinins were essential for the differentiation of shoots from protoplast-derived callus tissues of petunia and tobacco. Transfer of individual shoots to simpler nutrient media resulted in the formation of adventitious roots. Such plantlets of petunia and tobacco have flowered and set seeds in the greenhouse. Complete abortion of pollen was seen in plants derived from protoplasts of cytoplasmic male sterile plants of petunia. Corn root protoplasts elongated following cell wall regeneration, accumulated a few large lipid globules, and remained viable for over 10 weeks in culture. Cell wall regeneration and a low percentage of cell division were seen in protoplasts isolated from corn leaves. Adjacent protoplasts occasionally fused to form two-nucleate protoplasts.
4291629|The elemental compositions of carrot, habituated tobacco, rice, slash pine, and soybean tissues in culture resemble those reported for comparable intact plant organs. In general, P concentrations were lower while the sum of K + Na was higher in the tissue cultures. Deficiencies or abnormally high values that would eliminate the usefulness of tissues as edible food were not observed. Elemental composition in cultured tissues varied by species. Organic components such as agar and coconut milk contributed substantial amounts of macronutrients and micronutrients to the media. Ratios for the concentrations of pairs of elements in media and cultured tissues differed and indicated that a relative preferential absorption of elements such as Fe and Mg occurred in certain species. The concentration of Ca is proposed as a basis for comparisons between elemental abundances in cultured and intact tissues.
4292659| Pyruvate (2 to 60 mM), acting alone and in conjunction with insulin and epidermal growth factor (EGF), enhances DNA synthesis in primary monolayer cultures of adult rat liver parenchymal cells. Lactate can replace pyruvate in stimulating DNA synthesis. Several other intermediary metabolites (oxaloacetate, -ketoglutarate, -ketobutyrate, succinate, fumarate, and malate), though less potent than pyruvate and lactate, also elevate DNA synthesis, whereas alanine at similar concentrations is inhibitory. 
4292697|A serum-free, chemically defined medium for supporting rhythmic contraction, maximum survival, and moderate growth of cardiac cells was achieved by using a combination of hormones and growth supplements in a mixture of equal volumes of Ham's F12 and Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium. The hormones and growth supplements included insulin, transferrin, selenium, fetuin, bovine serum albumin, hydrocortisone (HC), L-thyroxine (T
4292065|Normal human embryonic cells were subcultured for over 100 population doublings without modification of the basic medium. The cells were evaluated for growth rate, confluent density, chromosome stability, growth in soft agar, ability to hydrolyze casein and tumorigenicity. The cells possessed the characteristics of normal cells. The batch of serum used to supplement the medium was found to be of primary importance in the long-term growth of this cell culture.
4291942| Among a number of techniques for the detection of mycoplasmal contamination in African green monkey kidney (AGMK) cell lines, the assay of uridine phosphorylase activity is unsuitable because of the presence of high levels of endogenous enzymatic activity. A thymidine phosphorylase test, however, based on the Chromatographic analysis of radiolabeled thymidine breakdown, turned out to be a simple and sensitive mycoplasma detection method. We found, using the latter technique, that 0.22-m-filtered virus inocula could still transfer mycoplasma unless treated with diethyl ether. The effect of mycoplasmal contamination on the synthesis of simian virus 40 and adenovirus in AGMK cells was negligible under the conditions used (no depletion of arginine). Incorporation of radioactive thymidine in viral macromolecules, however, was inhibited severely by the presence of mycoplasma. 
20170290|Addition of activated charcoal to the medium for plant tissue cultures improves growth by adsorbing toxic metabolites.
4292854|Before their use as a source of carcinogen-activating enzymes in the hamster embryo cell transformation assay, liver, kidney, lung, and small intestine S9 fractions from Syrian golden hamsters and Sprague-Dawley rats were evaluated for toxicity to hamster embryo target cells. Sprague-Dawley rat liver and kidney S9 were highly toxic to the hamster embryo cells (90 to 100%). When retested at lower concentrations these tissue fractions were still quite toxic (up to 75%). In contrast, hamster liver and kidney S9 were considerably less toxic (14 to 25%). The S9 preparations were also evaluated for their ability to metabolize N-2-acetylaminofluorene to 2-aminofluorene and N-hydroxy-acetylaminofluorene, products that transform hamster embryo cells. Large amounts of N-hydroxy-acetylaminofluorene were formed in the presence of preparations from hamster liver and small intestine, whereas kidney and lung S9 fractions were considerably less active. No detectable levels of N-hydroxy-acetylaminofluorene were formed after incubation of N-2-acetylaminofluorene with any of the rat S9 preparations. High levels of deacetylase activity were found in hamster liver and small intestine S9 fractions, at least eightfold higher than those obtained from equivalent rat preparations. Hamster kidney and lung S9 fractions showed low levels of deacetylase activity. There was no detectable activity in equivalent preparations from rats. When tested with N-2-acetylaminofluorene in the hamster embryo cell clonal transformation system, transformed colonies were obtained with hamster liver S9, with and without an external NADPH-generating system.
4292365|An organ culture system devised for studying the development of the secondary palate was modified so that it retained high partial pressures of oxygen and supported total anterior and posterior palatal elevation. The cultured tissues appeared healthy as judged by histological examination. Medium was continuously recirculated through the culture system in which Day 13 embryonic mouse heads, with the brain and tongue removed, were totally submerged and suspended. The medium was constantly gassed via hollow fiber devices. A motor-driven stirrer, run at a low rate, agitated the medium so that the boundary layer surrounding the tissue was dispersed. Embryonic mouse heads were cultured in each of four media: Eagle's basal medium, Ham's F-12 medium, Fitton-Jackson's modified BGJb medium, and Waymouth's MB 752/1 medium. Elevation of the palate in both anterior and posterior regions with excellent tissue viability was achieved in all heads grown in BGJb medium.
4292637| Previous work in this laboratory demonstrated that rat respiratory airway epithelial cells grown from tissue explants undergo concurrent division and differentiation in culture. In the present studies, this model system has been used to optimize conditions for epithelial growth, with the goal of facilitating the culture of epithelium from other organs and species. Fibroblasts appeared to limit the expansion of epithelial outgrowths; their growth was controlled by using delipidated serum, rather than serum, in the culture media, with addition of adrenergic antagonists. In nonsupplemented media, rat tracheal fibroblasts doubled in number in about 3 d. The doubling time was slowed to more than 9 d by the serum substitution in conjunction with the -antagonist phenoxybenzamine. Rat tracheal epithelial cultures maintained under identical conditions doubled in less than 4 d, so that a growth advantage of threefold was achieved. The combination of conditions also seemed to inhibit growth of fibroblasts from other species. However, even when the problem of fibroblast overgrowth was obviated, the respiratory airway epithelia of the mouse, hamster, and marmoset failed to show self-sustaining growth in culture. The rat epithelium continued to grow for over 6 wk. A number of other organs from the rat, notably esophagus, skin, and salivary gland, showed self-sustaining growth after removal of explants. Although epithelial outgrowths were formed by explants from certain organs of the hamster, only those from the kidney and thyroid continued to grow after removal of the tissue explants. Therefore, growth failure in cultured epithelia, quantitatively defined, is common and frequently unrelated to the problem of fibroblast overgrowth. The rat seems to be the species of choice for studies on the isolated epithelia from most organ sites. 
4292738|A technique for ensuring the controlled release of microgram and smaller amounts of biologically active epidermal growth factor (EGF) from polymeric delivery systems is described. We show that albumin in milligram quantities can facilitate the sustained release of picogram amounts of EGF for at least 3 wk. The EGF-containing polymer matrix can be placed directly into cell culture and will increase the proliferation rate of serum-starved cells. The method reported here should be suited particularly to the delivery of biologically active growth factors that are obtainable in only microgram or smaller amounts.
20170424|Free islet cell suspensions were prepared from isolated fetal rat islets using a modified enzyme dispersion technique. The islet cells were dispensed into a culture flask containing microcarriers (Cytodex) suspended in culture medium RPMI 1640 by a slowly rotating bar magnet. Microscopical examination of the beads showed that the islet cells attached and then progressively proliferated on the surface of the beads as a monolayer. A highly sustained release of insulin from the beads to the medium was observed during the 7 d culture period. The functional viability of the cultured islet cells was further demonstrated by the ability of batches of the cell-coated beads to synthesize insulin and to increase the insulin release in response to an acute challenge (16.7 mmol/l glucose plus 5 mmol/l theophylline). The results suggest that bead microcarriers may provide a new approach to monolayer islet cell culture providing functional monolayers, which can easily be transferred to different test systems and further manipulated.
4292202|The proteins, the DNA content and the brush border membrane enzyme activities of adult mouse intestinal explants have been measured during a 24-hr organ culture. These activities were not modified in comparison with the controls at the beginning of the culture. The activity of the enzymes secreted in the medium during the 24-hr culture was equal to the activity present in the explants at the start of the culture. These results show that several metabolic functions of the intestine are fully preserved in organ culture.
4291888|Hypaque (sodium diatrizoate), when added to cells growing in culture (two HeLa S3 strains, rat glioblastoma C
4292523|The ability of selected vasoactive agents to influence cyclic AMP levels of confluent, early-passaged bovine calf aortic and pulmonary artery endothelial cells was investigated. Among the agents tested, only the catecholamines (isoproterenol, epinephrine, nonrepinephrine) and prostaglandins (PGE
20170411|Cell monolayer cultures were prepared from hamster tracheal explants by a collagenase exposure and subsequent incubation in Waymouth's MAB 87/3 medium. The epithelial outgrowth occurred on glass cover slips. Cilia on the monolayers continued to beat normally after the "parent" explant was removed. Monolayer cultures infected with Mycoplasma pneumoniae had significant amounts of attachment. A morphological analysis of the attachment was conducted with scanning electron microscopy. Clusters, cocci, and filaments of M. pneumoniae all attached to the epithelial cells, but the filaments were especially common. Mycoplasmas were seen in association with both ciliated and nonciliated cell membranes. On ciliated cells, mycoplasmas were on the ciliary strands and on the cell membrane. When located immediately adjacent to or in between cilia, mycoplasmas were oriented vertically with the constricted attachment tip oriented down toward the host cell membrane. When located more than a micron away from the ciliary fibers, mycoplasmas lay horizontally along the epithelial cell membrane. The photographic data suggest that clusters or "sperules" of mycoplasmas may liberate individual mycoplasmas that attach to the cell membrane. It appears that the receptor sites for M. pneumoniae are rather uniformly distributed along the ciliated cell membrane, and are not restricted to the interciliary areas.
4291696|The identity of a cell line derived from hemocytes of Malacosoma disstria was investigated serologically by using complement fixation, double diffusion, immunoelectrophoresis in agarose, and acrylamide gel electrophoresis. The M. disstria cell line antiserum gave a specific cross-reaction with its homologous antigen and with M. disstria larval antigen, although cross-reactions with cell lines from Aedes aegypti, Bombyx mori, and Choristoneura fumiferana and with larval antigens of B. mori and C. fumiferana were also produced. Antisera against A. aegypti and B. mori cell lines showed very similar cross-reaction with both the cell line antigens. Also, these two antisera gave a strong reaction with B. mori larval antigen, but no reaction with A. aegypti larval antigen. These tests confirm the identity of our M. disstria cell line. Also, they indicate: (a) that the A. aegypti and B. mori cell lines tested are similar, and (b) that they are closely related to B. mori, but not at all related to A. aegypti.
4292413|An established in vitro assay for quantitating cell-substratum adhesion has been utilized to measure the adhesiveness of 10 cell lines to a colloidal overlay. The procedure, a derivation of the William's blister test for adhesives, involves growing cells to confluency on a polystyrene surface and then overlaying the monolayers with a Bacto-agar substratum. The cell-agar substratum systems are debonded and the
4291998|A factor that represses asexual embryogenesis has been observed in the Rutaceae, with particularly high concentrations in the naturally monoembryonic cultivars. This investigation was an initial step towards identifying the factor. Citrus reticulata Blanco Ponkan mandarin nucellus expiants and Daucus carota L. 'Queen Anne's Lace' callus were employed to examine effects of known plant growth regulators and to determine possible identity of one or more of them with the repressive factor. The chalazal halves of ovules of C. media L. 'Citron of Commerce' were used as control repressor source. Embryo initiation and growth of both test tissues were depressed markedly by 2,4-D, abscisic acid and ethephon. Slight inhibitions were obtained with IA A, kinetin and gibberellic acid. Recovery from the repressor did not occur readily in Citrus nucellus following recultures in citronovule-free medium; carrot callus resumed normal embryogenesis immediately upon transfer to suppressor-free medium. The repression by natural sources apparently involved the combined action of some or all natural hormones that are generically related to the above.
4291882|Chromosomes of thymus-derived lymphocyte (T-cell) cell lines (CCRF-CEM, CCRF-H-SB-2, MOLT-3, MOLT-4, and RPMI 8402) and the corresponding lines (CCRF-SB and RPMI 8392) with thymus-independent lymphocyte (B-cell) characteristics, were examined with banding techniques. The pairs of cell lines CCRF-H-SB-2 and CCRF-SB, and RPMI 8402 and RPMI 8392, were confirmed to be of the same origin, respectively, inasmuch as their individual specific variant bands were identical. The MOLT-3 and MOLT-4 cells had common marker chromosomes, indicating that the chromosomal changes in these cells probably occurred in vivo. All of the T-cells had structurally abnormal marker chromosomes, whereas the B-cells were chromosomally normal. The structural changes of the chromosomes suggest that the malignant nature of the present T-cells may be essential for such T-cells to be established in vitro in a standard culture medium.
4292846|Lactoferrin was examined for its effect on the growth of a human colon adenocarcinoma cell line (HT 29) in culture and its action was compared to that produced by transferrin and two different iron solutions (ferrous sulfate and ferric chloride). When transferrin was replaced by either iron solutions the cell grew in proportion to the quantity added and the maximal effect obtained was identical to that produced by transferrin alone. When transferrin was replaced by lactoferrin the cells were unable to proliferate for a long time. However, in the presence of low-concentration iron solutions, lactoferrin stimulated the cell growth, and the effect was more pronounced with the ferric chloride solution.
4291899|Embryonic shoots of 15- to 20-year-old Abies balsamea (balsam fir) trees were soaked in (a) water for 15 min or 24 hr and (b) water with 1000 mg per 1 indolebutyric acid (IBA), N-dimethylaminosuccinamic acid (Alar-85), or 1-phenyl-3-methyl-5-pyrazolone (PPZ), singly or in combination with 100 mg per l caffeic acid, for 15 min. After the soaking, the embryonic shoots were transferred to a nutrient medium. Nonsoaked (control) embryonic shoots elongated and often formed a basal callus but never showed organogenesis. The soaked embryonic shoots formed new apical buds, with or without bud scales, adventitious dwarf needles or shoots, and root- and embryo-like structures. One of the embryos germinated and formed an irregular shoot. No differences were found between the various soak treatments, except that the 15-min water soak was ineffective. The 24-hr water soak was as effective as the 15-min growth regulator treatments.
4292680|Cerebral cortex tissue fragments from newborn ferrets have been cultured in vitro and, when exposed to visna virus, failed to exhibit a cytopathic effect but retained the genome of the virus in a quiescent state for 46 d before synthesizing plaque-forming virus for the subsequent 26 d. In contrast, infection of an established line of cells derived from a ferret's brain with visna virus resulted in the formation of the polykaryocytes typically produced by this virus and a limited synthesis of plaque-forming virus. Ferret cerebral cortex cultures may be suitable in vitro hosts for studies to define the virus-host interactions that result in virus-induced demyelination.
20170468|Eleven haploid African violet plants, Saintpaulia ionantha Wendl. "Shag," derived from anther culture were phenotypically characterized. Haploids were obtained on a mineral salt medium containing vitamins, 3% sucrose, 5.0 mg/1 indoleacetic acid (IAA), and 0.5 mg/1 kinetin (K). Chromosome counts on 18-month-old plants ranged from N = 13 to N = 15. All haploids were much smaller than cv. Shag; the smallest was 33% and the average of the others was 64%. Phenotypic differences in leaf margin, indentation, and shape were apparent among the 11 haploids, indicating they were derived from individual microspores. These haploids could be very useful in breeding programs to obtain miniatures for direct use as ornamental plants for mutation studies and when diploidized could serve as parents for hybrid seed production.
4291904|Normal urinary bladder epithelial cells and cells derived from 2-acetylaminofluorene-induced urothelial carcinomas from male Balb/c mice were grown in monolayer culture and were characterized. Cell lines of normal bladder epithelium were mononucleated, sheet-forming cells, with a modal chromosome number of 40. Bladder epithelial carcinoma cells induced by 2-acetylaminofluorene were polynucleate, relatively fast growing, grew in soft agar, demonstrated a higher cloning efficiency than normal cells and formed tumors when inoculated into syngeneic hosts. Differences in morphology were recorded by photomicrography using phase optics and scanning electron microscopy.
4291934|A saline extract was prepared from Drosophila eggs. When diluted to a concentration of 1% with Drosophila tissue culture medium, it did not support growth of cells from the Drosophila line D1 during the first few days of subculture as well as medium containing serum. When cells reached a stationary phase, however, the cell density in medium containing extract was greater than in medium containing serum. By altering the concentrations of the extract, and by adding bovine albumin, a medium was obtained in which D1 cells survived initial culturing, and which supported cell growth by day 4 as well as medium plus serum. The initial retardation of growth in medium containing egg extract might be due to the need of the cells to adapt to the new medium. At the present time four Drosophila cell lines have been maintained in this medium for more than 16 passages. Preliminary experiments with primary embryonic Drosophila cells indicate that medium containing 2% extract and bovine albumin retards the differentiation of these cells.
4292547|Rat adrenocortical cells retained their differentiated characteristics over 2 wk in culture without a specific requirement for additives other than inorganic salts, amino acids, vitamins, and fetal bovine serum. The cells were maintained free from fibroblast overgrowth by substitution of D-valine in place of Irvaline in the medium. Corticotropin (ACTH) inhibited the growth of adrenocortical cells in this medium and the effect was reversible. The adrenocortical cells had a limited capacity for growth as reflected by total cell counts and [
4292894|We have investigated the potential for using cyclosporin A to increase the efficiency with which Epstein-Barr virus-transformed human lymphoblast lines can be prepared. Use of this immunosuppressive drug has permitted the development of a procedure with success rates exceeding 95% despite the processing of very large numbers of samples.
4292007| The effects of hydrocortisone and ascorbic acid on growth parameters were measured in human diploid skin fibroblasts from fetal and adult donors. In the presence of culture medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum, 0.3 M hydrocortisone produced a 20% increase in the population growth rate and a 50 to 70% increase in the confluent density of fibroblasts from adult donors. Daily addition of 28 M ascorbic acid also stimulated the population growth rate and cell density at confluency. The effects of hydrocortisone and ascorbic acid on the final cell density were additive. The action of hydrocortisone was restricted to cells in log-phase growth, whereas ascorbic acid affected cells in both the log and the post-confluent phases of the growth cycle. In fibroblasts from fetal donors, ascorbic acid was stimulative but hydrocortisone was not. The data suggest that whereas both compounds stimulate cell growth in an additive manner, they do so by different cellular mechanisms. 
4292779| Cultured tissue cells from lepidopteran and dipteran sources displayed an order-specific response to entomocidal protein from crystals of Bacillus thuringiensis. Protein isolated from crystals of B. thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki was effective against cells of the spruce budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana) and the tobacco hornworm (Manduca sexta), but was inactive against both mosquito cell lines tested (Aedes aegypti and Anopheles gambiae). Conversely, protein from inclusion bodies of B. thuringiensis subsp. israelensis was fully active only against the mosquito cell lines but displayed reduced (four- to seven- fold) toxicity for the lepidopteran cell lines. One exception to this pattern of specificity was observed with a Plodia interpunctella cell line, which failed to respond to either crystal protein preparation. The moth toxin was stable at 4 C for months, whereas the mosquito toxin was susceptible to proteolytic degradation and was unstable for periods longer than 2 wk. 
4291787| Cultures of human malignant trophoblast cells were studied to determine the basis of inhibition of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) secretion and depletion of glycogen following incubation of the cells in the presence of pregnenolone (3-hydroxypregn-5-en-20-one). Incubation of the cells for as long as 3 days with 5 or 10 g of pregnenolone per ml resulted in decreased protein content, inhibition of DNA synthesis, diminished glucose utilization, and marked accumulation of acellular debris in the medium. These changes became more pronounced with time of incubation and were related to the dose of pregnenolone employed. The effect of pregnenolone on all of the parameters measured was mimicked and potentiated by either equilenin (3-hydroxy-1,3,5(10),6,8-estrapentaen-17-one) or cyanoketone (androst-5-en-2-cyano-17-hydroxy-4,4,17-trimethyl -3-one), inhibitors of pregnenolone conversion to progesterone. These results suggested that the glycogenolysis and inhibition of HCG secretion that occur when the trophoblast cells are incubated in the presence of pregnenolone result from toxicity rather than from cellular differentiation, and that prior conversion of pregnenolone to progesterone is not necessary for the manifestation of the toxicity. 
4291556|Synchronization of cells by nearly quantitative removal of late stages of division by mechanical means is possible with a Chinese hamster cell line. By the use of this technique and radioactive and density labels, the cell cycle was shown to be 15 to 16 hr with G
4292536| Collagen substrates were characterized after preparation by the four methods most commonly used for tissue culture (saline precipitation, exposure to ammonium hydroxide vapor, exposure to ultraviolet light, and air drying). Although roughly equivalent percentages of collagen were precipitated by each technique (87 to 97%), marked differences were found in surface uniformity and ultrastructure. Substrates were quite uniform if precipitated by exposure to ammonium hydroxide or ultraviolet light, of intermediate uniformity if saline precipitated, and not at all uniform if air dried. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that (a) ammonium hydroxide and saline precipitation primarily resulted in formation of collagen fibrils, (b) air drying produced a small number of fibrils plus a large amount of amorphous material, and (c) exposure to ultraviolet light only resulted in the formation of globular, nonfibrillar collagen aggregates. The capacity of collagen substrates to bind and grow neurons differed markedly with the method of preparation and the amount of collagen plated per unit area. Quantification of binding and growth of both cerebral and sympathetic neurons revealed that these are separate measures of the biocompatibility of a surface and that growth was uniformly inferior on globular collagen that had been precipitated by ultraviolet light. Long-term ( 2 wk) growth of sympathetic neurons was optimal on thick beds of saline-precipitated collagen, whereas short-term growth was best on thin layers of either saline or ammonium hydroxide-precipitated collagen. Cerebral neurons bound and grew optimally on thick collagen beds after both short- and long-term culture. In addition, cerebral neurons were found to be more dependent on the method of precipitation of the thin collagen substrates than were sympathetic neurons. 
4291587|Confluent monolayers of human diploid fibroblasts can be stimulated to synthesize DNA and divide by a change of medium. In the lag period between the application of the stimulus and the onset of DNA synthesis, there occurs a series of biochemical events which include the very early activation of the cell genome. Gene activation requires protein synthesis but not previous RNA synthesis. Experiments suggest that gene activation is dependent upon specific acidic nuclear proteins, whose synthesis is regulated at the post-transcriptional level.
4292027|S49 mouse lymphoma cell mutants, each with a specific defect in its ability to generate or respond to cyclic AMP, have been isolated. Analysis of the properties of these cells has begun to provide information on complex and significant biologic problems related to the cyclic AMP system.
4292762|The time course of the synthesis and secretion of catabolin-like activity by porcine synovial tissue was determined. Ex vivo tissue had no demonstrable activity, but short-term culture (< 1 h) induced cellular accumulation of activity. This accumulation, which preceded secretion, was reversibly inhibited by cycloheximide. The activity was localized in the cystol fraction.
4292167| The influence of steroid hormones on sex differentiation was first demonstrated in birds in 1935. Steroid female hormones injected in vivo into male embryos determined a partial or total feminization of gonads and genital ducts. Male hormones determined only the sex reversal of the ducts. Some substances of the group of androgens, such as dehydroandrosterone, had a paradoxical effect; they feminized males and masculinized females. Similar effects were observed later by several authors in all groups of vertebrates. In placentary mammals, only genital ducts were transformed. Castration of avian embryos also demonstrated the role of embryonic sexual hormones on genital ducts. These results, first obtained in vivo, were confirmed by experiments in vitro. Since then numerous studies have been undertaken on the nature of the hormone responsible for the regression of mllerian ducts in embryos of birds and other groups of vertebrates. Some authors assumed that these substances are proteins; many offered new evidence for the role of steroid sexual hormones during sex differentiation. Thus the problem appeared more complicated than it was thought at first. In recent years, synthesis of steroid sexual hormones have been demonstrated in young embryos during or even before sex differentiation; and enzymes that catalyze the synthesis of these hormones, such as hydroxysteroiddehydrogenase, also have been discovered. Further research has been oriented toward the characterization of steroid hormones by techniques of immunochemistry and labeled isotopes confirming the results obtained by other techniques. Specific proteins are being isolated in the effectors; they work as receptors of steroid hormones. Nuclear receptors of estradiol have been discovered in the embryonic gonads and in the cloacal wall at the time of sexual differentiation. Thus a mechanism can be conceived in which proteins and steroid hormones play mutual roles in the process of sex differentiation. 
20170492| Testosterone stimulated, at the concentration of 10 M and independently of other hormones, the accumulation of polysomal poly(A)-containing RNA (mRNA) in cultured explants of rat ventral prostate and concomitantly also protein synthesis. The hormone-induced accumulation of polysomal mRNA, which reached its maximum at 24 h after testosterone addition, paralleled the preferential labeling of high molecular weight RNA demonstrable with the electrophoretic analysis of the double-isotope labeled RNA after a short pulse (30 min). These findings are consistent with the idea that testosterone activated the synthesis of precursor mRNA leading to an increased amount of polysomal mRNA and eventually an activated protein synthesis. The synthesis and maturation of rRNA appeared to proceed even in the absence of testosterone, which is in contrast to the in vivo findings on castrated rats. This partial un-coupling of RNA synthesis from androgenic control may account for the slow and less marked hormonal response found in protein synthesis and glucose metabolism in cultured explants from normal animals. Because of the lack of uniformity in the structure, routine light microscopic control to assess the viability of cultured explants was found to be a prerequisite for successful biochemical work on prostate culture. 
4292460|Porcine skin nucleoplasmic extract (PSNE) was shown to alter the incorporation of [
4292347|A simple method for quantitating the motile properties of a dissociated tissue cell preparation is presented. A cell population is allowed to grow over a glass cover slip coated with Scarlet Red-containing Formvar. At confluence, the preparation is cut with a razor to remove a portion of the cells and the underlying pigmented Formvar and then returned to culture conditions. Using the cut edge as the starting line, cell motility can be easily measured. In this assay irradiated and nonirradiated 3T3 cells show similar motility characteristics over a 3-day observation period supporting the interpretation that the observed movement is due primarily to active cell motility rather than cell growth.
4292221|We describe the establishment and characterization of WiDr, a cell line derived from a human colon carcinoma. It produces carcinoembryonic antigen in culture, and has a doubling time of 15 hr with plating efficiency of 51%. The HLA antigenic profile and the allozyme genetic signature (composed of eight gene-enzyme systems) of WiDr cells are different from those of HeLa cells. Furthermore, WiDr cells possess three marker chromosomes, again distinct from the HeLa marker chromosomes. Finally, it is highly tumorigenic in four different xenogeneic animal models. Based on these studies, WiDr represents a useful model cell line for tumor cell biology investigations.
4292826|Infection of cell cultures by mycoplasmas can be detected and the mycoplasma identified by Southern blot hybridization of the Eco RI-digested DNA of the suspected cell cultures with a nick-translated probe consisting of cloned ribosomal RNA genes of Mycoplasma capricolum. The probe does not hybridize with eukaryotic DNA. The hybridization pattern with mycoplasmal DNA is species specific, enabling the identification of the four most prevalent mycoplasma contaminants, Mycoplasma orale, Mycoplasma hyorhinis, Mycoplasma arginini, and Acholeplasma laidlawii. The test is also very sensitive and can detect as little as 1 ng of mycoplasmal DNA, roughly equivalent to the DNA content of 10
4292675|An organ explant culture system has been developed for long term maintenance of adult pancreatic tissue from the Syrian golden hamster. Gastric and duodenal lobe explants of up to
4292778| The organ culture of the mammary gland of lactating mice was used to examine the response of the differentiated gland to lactogenic stimuli, insulin, cortisol, and prolactin. Time course studies showed that casein synthesis in cultured tissue decreased rapidly during the first 2 d despite the presence of the three hormones, but on the 3rd d tissue cultured with either insulin and prolactin or all three hormones regained the ability to synthesize milk proteins, casein, and -lactalbumin: a greater increase occurred in the three hormone system. The delayed addition of prolactin on Day 2 to the culture system containing insulin and cortisol also stimulated casein synthesis. The addition of cytarabine, which inhibited insulin-dependent cell proliferation in cultured expiants, did not block the rebound of milk protein synthesis. These results indicate that in the presence of insulin, cortisol, and prolactin mammary epithelial cells in culture first lose and then regain the ability of synthesizing milk protein without requiring the formation of new daughter cells. 
4291666|The normal steady state in human epidermis reflects a balance between the rates of cell proliferation and of cell differentiation (keratinization). In certain diseases, such as psoriasis and basal cell cancer, increased proliferative activity is associated with abnormalities in keratinization. These events have been thought to be directly related. However, studies in which the epithelial cells from normal epidermis, psoriasis, and basal cell cancer were grown in vitro suggest that abnormalities of the keratinization process do not directly result from hyperproliferation. Alterations in keratinization probably result from abnormal dermal-epidermal interactions, independent of any dermal effects on mitosis.
20170511|Organ cultures of hearts maintained in media sterilized by filtration through different types of commercially available disposable membrane filter units displayed different beating rates and survival patterns. Media filtered through two different filter units sold by one company were severely toxic. Prewashing the filters removed most if not all of the toxins.
4291745| Isolated newborn rat heart cells were cultured for several days, then subjected to a standard procedure of trypsinization, slow freezing in 10% dimethylsulfoxide, storage at -180 to -190C for 1 to 3 days, rapid thawing, and recultivation. The same cells were recycled two more times in identical procedures. Morphological observations were made by phase-contrast optics and cinematography between each cycle and at the end of every experiment. After comparing the cellular morphology and contractile patterns of treated cells with control cultures, it was shown from the results of more than 15 experiments that most myocardial cells survived the standard procedures of trypsinization, freezing, and thawing and regained the ability to contract normally and form synchronized networks. Evidence was obtained which indicates that a cycle of the standard trypsinization-freezing-thawing procedure permits a recovery rate of 83 to 91% viable cells, with myocardial cells surviving to the same extent as endothelial cells. Of the cells which were nonviable, approximately half the deaths were a result of prior damage by trypsin and half were due to the freezing-thawing procedures. The same proportion of spontaneously contracting myocardial cells was observed after a cycle of trypsinization-freezing-thawing as before. Occasionally, there was a delay of 24 hr after thawing before myocardial cells began contracting spontaneously in vitro. An experiment using Viokase (in place of trypsin) and glycerol (in place of dimethylsulfoxide) gave excellent results after one cycle of freezing-thawing. It was concluded that myocardial cells exhibited a remarkable recovery from the toxic effects of trypsin and the traumatic influences of multiple freezing-thawing procedures. Endothelial cells in the cultures survived the same procedures and proliferated normally in vitro. 
4292776|Epithelial cell enriched primary cultures were established from the rat and the rabbit epididymis. Epithelial cell aggregates, obtained after pronase digestion of minced epididymis, attached to the culture dish and after 72 h in vitro spread out to form discrete patches of cells. These cells have an epithelioid morphology and form a monolayer of closely apposed polygonal cells where DNA synthesis, as judged by [
20170516| A human cell line has been established from a transplantable xenografted human testicular tumor, which, both in the original tumor and in the xenograft, exhibited the histological characteristics of an undifferentiated malignant teratoma (embryonal cell carcinoma). The cells in culture were undifferentiated by biochemical, morphological, and ultrastructural criteria, growing as small islands of cells that tended to form aggregates at high density. The cells showed some variation in chromosome number with 30 to 40% of the cells having a normal human karyotype. The cells expressed high levels of alkaline phosphatase, which by heat inactivation and inhibition studies was 40 to 50% placental type alkaline phosphatase. None of the cultures produced human chorionic gonadotrophin, alphafetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen, or fibronectin, although at high cell densities plasminogen activator could be detected at low levels. Cell surface studies showed that the cells shared antigens with the murine embryonal carcinoma cell line F9, expressed -microglobulin at very low and variable levels, and bound the lectin peanut agglutinin. These studies suggest that this cell line has some of the characteristics described for murine embryonal carcinoma cell lines. 
20170400|A survey of the literature and of work being done in vertebrate cell culture shows that there are currently in existence and available to investigators some 61 cell lines representing 17 families and 36 species of fish. The literature of fish virology shows that at least 17 fish viruses have been isolated and that at least 15 others have been visualized by electron microscopy. A minimum of four major virus groups--rhabdovirus, orthomyxovirus, iridovirus and herpesvirus--are known from fish. Original references, key reviews and sources of cell lines are given.
4292005|The conditions for obtaining representative, adult rat hepatocyte primary cell cultures were improved such that viable yields of 50% of the liver were produced which gave rise to cultures representing 30% of the liver. The survival of these cultures in various media was compared revealing that in complex media, particularly containing galactose, survival was improved.
4291548|Selection techniques are described for the isolation of differentiated mammalian cell lines in culture. Use of the techniques in isolating auxotrophic mutant cell lines and functionally dependent endocrine tumor cell lines is discussed.
4292372|Studies conducted with virus-infected monolayer cell cultures have demonstrated the feasibility of producing several tumor-associated viruses in microcarrier (mc) cultures (Sephadex G50 beads treated with DEAE-chloride). The efficiency of cell adherence to mc varied with the cell type, the pH of the growth medium, and the stirring force applied to keep the mc in suspension. Most cells attached firmly to the mc and could not be removed easily with routine trypsinization procedures. Techniques using Enzar-T and Pronase were effective in detaching cells from mc in 10 to 15 min while retaining 95% cell viability. After detachment, Ficoll gradients were used for rapid and complete separation of viable cell suspensions from the mc. Retrovirus production in large volumes of mc cultures was investigated with periodic harvesting of growth fluids. Physical, biochemical, and biological properties of the Mason-Pfizer monkey virus and the RD114 virus recovered from the mc cultures were identical to those produced in conventional cultures. The utilization of mc has several applications in research and short-term cultures, but the as-yet-unsolved technical problems met were found to be serious limitations when attempting mass cell culturing on a long-term basis.
20170324|In the presence of a normal (1.25 to 1.80 mM) calcium concentration, addition of fresh bovine calf serum or completely changing the medium induces proliferatively quiescent BALB/c 3T3 mouse cells in dense cultures to start a growth division cycle and initiate DNA synthesis about 12 hr later. Fresh, low-calcium (0.02 mM physiologically available) medium also causes cells to start a growth-division cycle. However, the development of such stimulated, calcium-deprived cells stops just before the expected time of initiation of DNA synthesis, which can then be rapidly induced by restoration of the normal calcium concentration. Simply raising the calcium concentration to nonphysiologically high levels (without otherwise altering the medium) can mimic the action of fresh serum or fresh whole medium by inducing some of the cells in proliferatively quiescent confluent cultures to start a growth-division cycle and initiate DNA synthesis 22 hr later.
4292285| Optimum conditions have been established for the measurement of amino acid transport by human lymphoblastoid cell lines using a membrane-filtration technique. The parameters we found to be important for the reproducibility of the method are: the types and combination of filters, the strength of the vacuum applied to the filters and the density of the cultures at the time of harvesting and during uptake and filtration. We found that bovine serum albumin added to phosphate buffered saline (PBS) glucose in which the cells are washed, resuspended and assayed is essential for the maintenance of viability, the prevention of clumping and the retention of the accumulated amino acid. Using this procedure we have characterized two transport systems for the neutral amino acids; an A and an L system, which are similar but not identical to the A and L systems characterized in rodent cell lines. These A and L systems have characteristically lower Km's and Vm's for alanine and phenylalanine, when compared to rodent cell lines. In addition, we find -AIB to be a poor competitor of alanine and phenylalanine uptake. 
4292789|A rapid and technically simple method for cloning both adhesive and nonadhesive mammalian cells is described. The procedure employs (a) honeycomb cloning plates and (b) nonlethal vital stains. Instead of placing cloning rings around colonies, cells are initially seeded at clonal density directly into a plate containing an array of cloning rings (the honeycomb plate). Hence, the time involved in placing cloning rings around colonies is eliminated. Second, clone-containing wells of the honeycomb plate are easily identified by staining plates with the nonlethal vital stains, MTT or INT tetrazolium. Vital staining eliminates the time involved in searching for clones. Last, clones are transferred with a cotton-tipped swab thereby eliminating the time involved in trypsinization of cells. In this fashion, one can pick and transfer clones of substrate adherent mammalian cells at a rate of one clone/10 to 15 s. Thus, mammalian cells can be cloned as rapidly as cloning can be carried out in microbial systems.
4292566|Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells maintained in continuous culture for 3 to 5 months may undergo subtle changes in drug sensitivity response, growth kinetics, plating efficiencies, et cetera. Our studies done independently in two different laboratories, using flow cytometry, indicate that the DNA histogram patterns change at about 11 wk, from populations with an approximate diploid DNA content to populations also composed of triploid and tetraploid cells. Chromosome counts also change from distributions of 21 to 22 to populations of cells having 21 to 22, 34 to 35 and 44 to 46 chromosomes. These alterations occur earlier (at 8 to 9 wk) in cell populations previously treated with anticancer drugs.
4291923|To develop a method for culturing a large number of small-scale suspension cultures of Drosophila melanogaster cells simultaneously, basic conditions were studied using a cell line
4292424|Parenchymal cells, isolated from normal adult rat liver (
4291684|Cultures of the human diploid cell strain WI-38 were subcultivated under conditions which would meet the requirements proposed for the use of this strain as a substrate for the preparation of viral vaccines and would be in keeping with efficient production procedures. For chromosomal analysis, the cultures were combined in three groups at low, intermediate, and high passage levels, the latter being beyond those recommended for vaccine production. At all passage numbers, the incidence of aneuploid cells was low and constant up to those passages where the finite life span was approached and the population doubling time became markedly prolonged. At all passage levels, the incidence of gaps was higher than that of breaks but there was no significant increase of either of these abnormalities with continuous subcultivation. Among structural abnormalities dicentrics, despiralizations and deletions predominated. A significant increase in polyploidy occurred in the highest passage numbers, although the ratio of polyploidy to endoreduplication was constant throughout the series. Neither heteroploid transformation nor nonrandom chromosomal aberrations were observed. Nor was there correlation between observed aberrations and their location on the chromosomes. The incidence of hypodiploidy was lower than reported by other investigators. At the cellular level, no morphological changes could be associated with the distribution of chromosomal aberrations.
4291789|Methods for disaggregating tissues to obtain cells for primary cultures are reviewed and evaluated. The procedures include dissociation with crude and purified enzymes (singly and in various combinations), depletion of cations, and manipulation of pH and osmolality.
4292035|Wild-carrot (Daucus carota L.) suspension cultures grew and produced embryos on ammonium ion as a sole source of nitrogen in the absence of any exogenous Kreb's cycle acid when the pH of the medium was controlled by continuous titration with KOH or KHCO
4291755|Two lymphocytic cell lines were obtained from a single specimen of peripheral blood buffy coat from a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who concurrently developed classical infectious mononucleosis. These two cell lines exhibit distinguishing differences in culture in parallel with previously described differences in the cells when implanted into neonatal Syrian hamsters. These observations suggest that the cell lines were derived from two pre-existing different classes or "stemlines" of cells-one of which resembles other cell lines derived from patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, whereas the other resembles cell lines derived from other patients with infectious mononucleosis.
4291896|Primary cultures of 10-day embryonic chick neural retinas were used to investigate early aspects of the mechanism of hydrocortisone action on glutamine synthetase activity. As little as 2 hr of hydrocortisone exposure served to initiate significant increases in the glutamine synthetase activity levels assayed after 24 hr culture. Time course studies indicated that the increase in glutamine synthetase activity observed after 24 hr in culture resulted from a two-phase rise in activity and that cycloheximide was effective in suppressing the second-phase rise. Additional inhibition studies demonstrated that the second-phase increase in enzyme activity required continuous protein synthesis during the initial 6 hr. The evidence suggests a mechanism of hydrocortisone action involving the production of a protein which is important for the induction of glutamine synthetase activity by hydrocortisone.
4292839|A methodology for obtaining reproducible in vitro induction of the synthesis of the acute phase reactant serum amyloid P-component (SAP) by purified mouse hepatocytes was established. Optimal hepatocyte culture conditions for the induction and synthesis of SAP required certain hormones, a substratum for cell attachment, and activated macrophages. Leibowitz L15 medium had to be supplemented with dexamethasone, indomethacin, insulin, glucose, and fetal bovine serum. Purified mouse IL 1 could substitute for activated macrophages in the induction of SAP. Hepatocytes were allowed to adhere to a collagen matrix to enhance both cell viability and SAP synthesis induced by IL 1. Elicited macrophages cultured with hepatocytes were capable of augmenting SAP synthesis in the presence of IL 1.
20170488|A new in vitro model for human breast cancer is described. Derived from an N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU) induced rat mammary adenocarcinoma, this serially cultivated cell line has been demonstrated, by a variety of criteria, to be an authentic neoplastic, rat mammary epithelial cell line. The criteria used include morphological and growth characteristics; the presence of specific cell surface antigens; steroid hormone receptors; hormone responsiveness; casein production; karyotype and isoenzyme profile analysis; anchorage independent growth and oncogenicity. Inasmuch as the NMU cell line possesses high concentrations of glucocorticoid and androgen receptors, it may provide a useful model for study of the action of these hormones in human breast cancer. In addition, the NMU line may serve as a valuable in vitro model in which to assess the effects of a variety of endogenous and exogenous agents known to influence mammary tumor growth in vivo, including drugs, nutrients, and growth factors.
4291616| Nucleolar RNA synthesis is inhibited and cell division delayed in synchronous cultures of mouse fibroblasts (strain L-929) treated with actinomycin D(0.04 .g per ml). The gradual loss of actinomycin D from the cells during a 2-hr period following incubation is accompanied by an increase in the rate of nucleolar RNA synthesis to the control level. Following this the rate of protein synthesis is decreased by 25% for approximately 9 hr. The length of time that nucleolar RNA and protein synthesis are inhibited accounts for the delay in mitosis 1 1/2 cell cycles later. These data support the contention that certain proteins produced during one interphase are prerequisite for division in a subsequent cycle. 
4292717|We have developed a method to circumvent the use of exogenous proteolytic enzymes in the isolation of islets of Langerhans from the perinatal rodent pancreas. Advantage is taken of the propensity of fibroblastlike cells to attach and migrate on polystyrene at low-serum concentrations (5%). In contrast, at this serum level, rat islet epithelial cells tend not to adhere to the substrate. At 3 d of culture, islets are visible at the edges of the explants. With further fibroblast outgrowth the majority of islets are freefloating by 7 d. Simple agitation of the medium and centrifugation yields approximately
4291541|The production of melatonin has been studied using organ cultures of pineal glands incubated with
4292849|Alterations in peroxisomes and catalase activity and their responsiveness to clofibrate in adult rat hepatocytes in primary culture were investigated. The numbers of peroxisomes with and without crystalloid nucleoids per unit cytoplasmic area were preserved in cultured hepatocytes for 2 d after seeding at a level comparable to that of freshly isolated hepatocytes. At Day 3 in culture, the number of anucleoid peroxisomes was reduced in untreated hepatocytes, accompanied by more significant reduction in the number of nucleoid-containing peroxisomes, which decreased until Day 5. Peroxisome diameters were reduced in untreated hepatocytes at Day 2 and this decrease in the diameter was continued until Day 7. Catalase activity in untreated hepatocytes decreased markedly with culture age. The number of anucleoid peroxisomes was significantly greater in hepatocytes treated with 2 raM clofibrate in culture than in freshly isolated hepatocytes for 2 d or in untreated hepatocytes of the same culture age through 7 d. The number of nucleoid-containing peroxisomes in the treated cells began to decrease in 3 d, but was greater than that of untreated cells at Days 3 and 5. Peroxisomes with well-developed nucleoids were observed frequently in the treated cells even at Day 7. Peroxisome diameters were greater in the treated cells than in untreated cells at Days 3,5, and 7. Catalase activity was always higher in the treated cells than in untreated cells. These results suggest that clofibrate is effective in inducing peroxisome proliferation as well as in maintaining the organelles in cultured hepatocytes.
4291868|The tolerances of a cell line (IMC-HZ-1) from a moth, Heliothis zea, for the monovalent cations Na
4292743|Hemicyst formation is considered a manifestation of either transepithelial solute and fluid movement or secretory activity in culture. This study shows that hemicyst formation in postconfluent monolayers of rhesus monkey kidney (
20170456|Mycoplasma infection of cell cultures is still a major problem in some laboratories. Although several methods can be used for their detection, identification is normally by serological procedures. As no commercial source for the necessary antibodies is available we have prepared monoclonal antibodies to the five mycoplasma species that account for the majority of cell culture infections. These antibodies have been characterized by the growth inhibition test (GIT), immunofluorescence, and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and have shown perfect correlation in all tests when compared to conventional antisera raised in rabbits or donkeys. In addition, a monoclonal antibody to Mycoplasma pneumoniae was produced. M. pneumoniae is an infrequent cell culture contaminant but is a human pathogen, and the monoclonal antibody described here could be useful in the clinical diagnosis of M. pneumoniae infection in man.
20170504|A melanoma cell clone was isolated from cultured B16 mouse melanoma cells. This clone, conv, which was characterized by rounded and spindle-shaped cell morphology, was not highly melanotic under the usual culture condition but had high tyrosinase (dopa oxidase) activity. When the cells were seeded to form colonies on a plastic culture dish in Eagle's minimum essential medium supplemented with 10% bovine calf serum, two kinds of cell types always appeared. One was cytochemically dopa-positive and spindle-shaped (S type cell) with the same phenotypes as those of the parental cells. The other was dopa-negative and fibroblastlike (F type cell) containing no melanosomes. It was observed that the conversion from S type to F type occurred with a high frequency. The conversion from F type to S type also occurred but with a low frequency.
4291672|Comparisons of nucleic acid methylation between paired neoplastic and non-neoplastic mouse cell lines have shown a striking difference in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) peak eluted from methylated albumin-kieselguhr columns (R. Gantt and V. J. Evans, 1969, Cancer Res. 29: 536-541). Since mouse satellite DNA is relatively highly methylated, its 5-methylcytosine content was compared with mainband DNA in these two paired cell lines to determine whether this might account for the observed differences. The cell DNA was labeled with methyl-labeled methionine and isolated from the cells by repeated neutral cesium chloride isopycnic centrifugation. The satellite DNA strands were then separated in an alkaline cesium chloride gradient. Both the 5-methylcytosine content and the relative amounts of satellite DNA were indistinguishable in the paired cell lines. Further, the results showed that both strands of satellite DNA had virtually equal amounts of 5-methylcytosine, although the heavy strand contains 1.5 times more cytosine than the light strand.
20170386|A method is described which has been successfully used to develop two human osteogenic sarcomas into established lines in culture. This method provides a means whereby cells growing from explanted tumor tissue can be immediately cloned and the fibroblastic (nonneoplastic) cells thus selected against. Both lines have been passaged for over 100 population doublings since cloning and haved retained the ability to form colonies from single cells plated at low density without the use of feeder layers or conditioned medium. In culture, the osteogenic sarcoma cells are nonfibroblastic, pile up, and appear to retain a morphological similarity to the in vivo tumors from which they were derived. A karyotype of cells derived from one of the tumors containing a marker chromosome is also presented.
4292395|Drosophila cells and plant protoplasts were fused by polyethylene glycoldimethylsulfoxide treatment. DNA synthesis in plant and animal cells and in their heterokaryons were monitored by
20170364| We have investigated the atmospheric stability in polystyrene and glass cell culture vessels by measuring the dissolved O and CO in the media of both seeded and unseeded culture vessels incubated at 37C. There was no diffusion of either O or CO through glass vessels. At low partial pressures of oxygen (
4292912|In this report, we present evidence that estrogen-dependent rat mammary tumor cells produce autostimulatory (autocrine) growth factors in response to estrogens, and that hormone autonomous cells produce autocrine activities that are no longer under estrogen regulation. Confirmation of the in vivo significance of autostimulatory factors was sought by inoculating rats with mixed populations of estrogen-dependent, responsive, and autonomous MTW9/PL mammary tumor cells, and showing that after 16 weeks growth in castrated male rats, the estrogen-dependent and responsive mammary tumor cells not only survived, but continued to grow. Three out of seven of the clones derived from apparently autonomous tumors were shown to be estrogen-dependent or responsive. These are the first data establishing that estrogen-dependent (responsive) mammary tumor cells are able to grow in the absence of physiological concentrations of sex steroid hormones in vivo, and that autocrine factors secreted from adjacent autonomous cells are able to substitute for the steroid hormone requirement.
4292689|A number of cell lines derived from the stromal-vascular fraction of rat adipose tissue have been established that represent a variety of morphologic types. Despite their differing morphology, all of these cell lines secrete lipoprotein lipase in response to heparin. Because lipoprotein lipase secretion has been attributed to the presence of preadipocytes in the stromal-vascular fraction, we examined these cell lines for adipocyte conversion. None of the cell lines converted to adipocyte morphology when held at confluency or when exposed to media supplemented with high concentrations of fatty acid or very low density lipoproteins. These cell lines therefore do not seem to be preadipocytes, despite the presence of lipoprotein lipase. Among these cell lines are several that display the "cobblestone" morphology of endothelial cells, although they lack angiotensin-converting enzyme activity, reactivity with Factor VIII antibodies, and Weibel-Palade bodies. A number of authentic endothelial cells were found to be negative for lipoprotein lipase secretion. These data suggest that the "endothelial-like" cell lines established from adipose tissue are not endothelial cells.
4292853|Mouse fibroblasts were cultured by three different procedures: (a) changing the
4292425| Green and albino plants were regenerated from green and white tissues, respectively, of a chimeric, Episcia cupreata "Pink Brocade." The green plants grew much faster in vitro than the albinos. The slower growth of albinos apparently was not the result of carbohydrate deficiency, as it could not be corrected by increased sucrose. Growth of the albinos was also not improved by supplementation with various amino acids, growth hormones, or -aminolevulinic acid. 
4291949| A new medium (MCDB 104) has been developed which will support clonal growth of WI-38 cells at concentrations of serum protein as low as 25 g per ml (equivalent to 0.05% serum). The principal factors responsible for reduction of the protein requirement are: (a) adjustment of all nutrient concentrations in medium F12 to experimentally determined optimum values for WI-38 cells; (b) supplementation with trace elements; (c) replacement of hypoxanthine and folic acid with adenine and folinic acid; and (d) coating of the culture surface with polylysine. Individually, many of these modifications exert only a small effect on cellular growth at reduced protein concentrations, but collectively their effect has been very substantial. Other strains of fibroblast-like human diploid cells from amniotic fluid, fetal lung and newborn foreskin also will grow at reduced concentrations of serum protein in the new medium. 
4292798|Monolayer cultures were prepared from hepatocytes of 15 d chick embryos and maintained at high cell density in a chemically defined medium. In the absence of growth stimulatory conditions DNA synthesis was observed only during the first 10 to 16 h of culture. Thus, after a 12 h exposure to [
4292309| Primary avian tendon cells (PAT) maintain their embryonic state when cultured in medium F-12 with very low serum (0.2%) and ascorbate (50 g per ml); that is, they retain the potential for devoting 20-30% of their total protein synthesis to collagen. However, if the cells are left at a confluent cell density or are derived from confluent cultures, this potential is irreversibly decreased. This effect, along with poor medium formulations, probably accounts for the "dedifferentiation" process that occurs when fibroblasts are cultured. In contrast, PAT cells kept at subconfluent cell densities retain the ability to synthesize high levels of collagen. The one limitation in obtaining long-term cultures of high collagen-producing tendon cells is the inability of serum at low concentrations to remain a potent mitogen after a few subcultures. The quantitative loss of function has long been considered to be a cell culture artifact; however, we propose that this drop in collagen synthesis is a reflection of the developmental programing of these cells. In separate series of experiments using organ cultures, we show that tendon tissue from the embryo makes over 30% collagen, whereas, "young" tendons make 18% and "older" tendons from the adult make less than 1%. Therefore, a quantitative drop in collagen synthesis would be expected if normal development were to occur in culture. Our data are consistent with the idea that cultures of embryonic tendon cells are triggered to mature by a mechanism that correlates with high cell density. 
4292795|The establishment and characterization of a Haemagogus equinus mosquito cell line (GML-HE-12) are described. The cells are diploid (2N=6) and seem to be free of contaminants. Their susceptibility to 13 arboviruses was tested. Eleven of the viruses multiplied in this cell line; six of these viruses still showed titers of
4292824|In our laboratory, airborne yeast contaminants of cell cultures have consistently been of the genus Candida (species Candida parapsilosis), which are difficult to control with fungicidal agents. To salvage cell lines that show the presence of this fungus, two effective methods may be employed. In early stages of infection, the addition of activated mouse peritoneal macrophages (
4291816|The effect of BrdU on oncogenicity and growth characteristics of mouse myeloma cell lines in vitro has been studied. Oncogenicity was reduced and marked cytotoxicity was observed but globulin synthesis did not appear to be affected by less than lethal concentrations. Production of C-type virus particles was not observed under the conditions used.
4291759|Glycolipid synthesis was investigated in secondary hamster embryo cells and in two Nil (hamster) clones at 24-hr intervals following infection with the hamster sarcoma virus. In all cases lower levels of complex glycolipids were being synthesized by 14 days postinfection. The time courses for these changes, however, were complex and characteristic for each cell type. A higher rate of Forssman antigen synthesis was found in infected secondary hamster fibroblasts as compared to uninfected cells at one point during the transition to transformation. In some cases the changes in glycolipid pattern were found to precede changes in morphology and glucose uptake and in other cases they were found to follow these changes.
4292527|Glycylhistidyllysine (GHL), a tripeptide isolated from plasma, has been shown to alter the growth rate of many cell types and organisms in culture systems. The tripeptide is optimally active at concentrations between 10 and 200 ng/ml. Some of the more interesting uses of GHL are highlighted in this paper. Present information suggests that GHL functions as a transporter of transition metals, in particular copper, to the cell surface for uptake into the cell.
4292576|The quantitative radiochemical methodology described in this report allows a major increase in information generation, increased experimental flexibility, improved statistical control, and increased diversity of information per culture. Other advantages relate to economies of technical time, supplies, cells, and test materials per individual culture. Microcultures of human synovial cells incorporate [
20170301|Low concentrations of cycloheximide, sufficient to block net protein synthesis in growing normal and cancer cells, had no effect on protein turnover, i.e. either the incorporation of labeled amino acids from media lacking other amino acids essential for growth, or the loss to the medium of amino acids from prelabeled cells. At the concentrations that blocked growth, the rate of amino acid incorporation from complete medium was reduced to the "turnover level," i.e. the rate of incorporation seen in amino acid-deficient media. Protein turnover was inhibited only at higher concentrations of the inhibitor. Qualitatively similar results have been obtained with puromycin, anisomycin, emetin and tylocerebrine.
4291540| The processing of ribosomal ribonucleic acid (RNA) and the migration of newly synthesized RNA of several types from nucleus and nucleolus to the cytoplasm are restricted at 27C. The previously reported failure of efforts to induce glutamine synthetase at that temperature may be due to the retention by the nucleus of the specific RNA required for induction. At the normal temperature of 37C serum macromolecules appear to be required for RNA migration. Cohn fraction III of bovine serum restores the RNA distribution pattern observed with whole serum. The exchange of lysine-labeled proteins between the cytoplasm and the nucleus is also altered by low temperature and in serum-free medium at 37C. 
4291814|A survey study of primary cell cultures prepared from primate and nonprimate tissues has shown that viruses are commonly found as endogenous agents in these cultures. Cultures prepared from monkey tissues yielded the greatest variety of virus isolates. Almost all strain 2 guinea pig cultures contained a Herpes-like virus, and both strain 2 and Hartley animals contained C-type virus. Bovine embryo and rabbit kidney cell cultures were rarely infected with viruses. Toxoplasmas and microfilariae were also detected. Most of the endogenous viral agents were obtained by holding the cultures for long-term incubation while testing for cytopathic effect, hemadsorption, and staining with hematoxylin and eosin for virus-induced cellular inclusions. Fluorescent antibody staining and electron microscopy were found to be efficient for detection of certain types of viruses. The screening of animals by testing for the presence of neutralizing antibody was not an effective procedure in selecting virus-free animals for cell culture purposes.
4291711|The growth of L cells in suspension cultures as determined by cell count and protein measurement is markedly reduced by the addition of dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (AMP) and theophylline to the culture flasks. Following the transfer of these cells to normal media the effect of dibutyryl cyclic AMP on cell growth lasts between 24 and 48 hr, and afterwards the cells have normal growth. Growth arrested L cells remain agglutinable by wheat germ agglutinin.
4292099|The temporal relationships between aspects of DNA metabolism and the suppression of cell proliferation were investigated in rat glioma (strain C6) monolayer cultures exposed to
4291975|Two methods of in vitro culture were employed to regenerate papaya plants. One involved regeneration of plants from callus and the other, production of multiple plants from single shoot-tip explants. Callus was induced from stem sections of papaya seedlings in a medium containing 1 mg per l NAA and 0.1 mg per l kinetin. The callus regenerated shoots and/or embryoids when transferred to a medium of lower auxin, 0 to 0.05 mg per l IAA, and higher cytokinin, 1 to 2 mg per l kinetin. Multiple shoots were produced when the excised shoot-tip explants were cultured in a medium supplemented with 0.05 mg per l IAA and either 5 mg per l kinetin or 0.5 to 1.0 mg per l benzyladenine. Root formation of the shoots or embryoids that derived from callus or shoot tips occurred in a medium containing 5 mg per l IAA and in a light intensity of 3000 to 4000 lx. The rooted plants could be established in soil and under standard greenhouse conditions after they had been acclimated by initially growing them in moist vermiculite contained in polyethylene-covered pots.
4292092|Long-term (more than 75 days) recirculating circumfusion system cultures of 15-day fetal mouse lungs gave rise to terminal bronchiolar-alveolar (TB-A) units detached from the respiratory tree. TB-A units established in serum-free microenvironments under reconstructed cellophane membranes became especially flat and optically accessible in fastflowing 6-chamber systems devoid of a pulse pressure. Time-lapse cinephase movies showed that the alveoli were maintained debris-free by the phagocytosis of alveolar macrophages which entered the alveoli by penetrating the pneumocytic walls. The terminal bronchioles with active ciliary cells communicated with the alveoli and together they formed a flat fluid-filled tubule-like closed system composed of ultrastructurally typical differentiated cellular constituents, viz. types I and II pneumocytes, endocrine-like cells, ciliary cells, Clara cells, and septal cells. TB-A units were observed throughout 150 days of cultivation at which time their phase morphological differentiation remained stable and their functional activity observable as smooth-muscle contractions, ciliation, and alveolar macrophage phagocytosis. A 1000-foot motion-picture film complementing the descriptions of the TB-A units and the alveolar macrophages in the text is deposited with the Motion Picture Film Rental Collection of the Tissue Culture Association, Inc., at the W. Alton Jones Cell Science Center, Lake Placid, New York.
4292511|Aldolase and pyruvate kinase isozymes were investigated in cultured hepatocytes from fetal, regenerating, and 2-acetyl-aminofluorene-fed rat liver as well as in some epithelial liver cell lines. Our results show that: (a) cell proliferation and prolonged expression of specific isozymes were found only in cultured hepatocytes from 17-day old fetuses; (b) the fetal type of pyruvate kinase expressed in regenerating and carcinogen-treated liver was temporarily lost only in cultured hepatocytes from regenerating liver; (c) the adult type of aldolase and pyruvate kinase was absent in one epithelial cell line derived from a carcinogen-treated liver and in the hepatoma tissue cell (HTC) line but was found in the Faza clone of the Reuber
4291845|Seventy-five diploid human cell strains were subjected to a number of chemical carcinogens, including urethane and polycyclic hydrocarbons. In most cases, no visible morphological alterations were induced by any treatment. Development of morphologically altered foci was noticed in urethane-treated cultures derived from a patient with von Recklinghausen's disease. This disease is transmitted by an autosomal dominant gene, and has a high rate of spontaneous transformation of neurofibromas to neurofibrosarcomas. Attempts to isolate continuous cell lines from altered foci were successful in only two of several attempts. These continuous cell lines demonstrate altered morphology, loss of contact inhibition, accelerated growth rate, and have attained over 240 generations in a period of 140 weeks. Untreated control cultures became terminal by the 20th generation. Giemsa banding procedures showed that the chromosomal complement consisted of heteroploid human chromosomes. A second diploid cell strain derived from the above patient's sibling, also suffering from von Recklinghausen's disease, likewise was morphologically altered by urethane. Chemical transformation of human cells is difficult to induce; however, selection of genetically predisposed cells and prolonged, intermittent, and repeated chemical treatment may be important factors in achieving transformation.
20170326|Normal T-lymphocytes, B-cell line (CCRF-SB) and T-cell line (CCRF-HSB-2) cells, all diploid in their chromosome constitution, were exposed in vitro to various doses of X-ray and analyzed at their first mitotic division for structural chromosome abnormalities. The irradiation effects were determined also by a viability test of the cells, using trypan blue dye. The irradiated T-cell line (CCRF-HSB-2) showed a remarkably high frequency of chromosome aberrations, including chromosome and chromatid deletions, chromatid exchanges, dicentrics, rings and acentric fragments. On the other hand, the chromosome aberrations observed in the irradiated B-cell line and normal T-lymphocytes consisted mainly of dicentrics, rings, deletions and acentric fragments; the frequency of chromosome and chromatid deletions was low as compared to that of the T-cell line. The cell viability test showed a significantly higher percent reduction of viable cells at every dose of X-ray in the irradiated T-cell line than in the B-cell line or the normal T-lymphocytes. It is possible that the increased radiosensitivity of the T-cell line is related to the original malignant nature of the cells, which originated from the lymphocytes of a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
4292716|Five tumor cell lines that originated from a single mouse mammary adenocarcinoma, normal mammary tissue, a preneoplastic alveolar nodule line, and a tumor developing spontaneously from that preneoplastic line were used to study the different three-dimensional growth patterns that mammary tissues produce in collagen gel. We describe five different outgrowth morphologies, one of which may represent normal stromal tissue and infiltrating cells. One type was produced both by tumors and by normal mammary gland tissue in an age-related fashion, i.e. more outgrowths of this type were produced by mammary tissue from older mice. The outgrowth patterns for the tumor cell lines were not related to morphology in monolayer culture. Certain of the tumor lines, including one variant-producing line, produced multiple outgrowth patterns. Our results indicate that this cultivation technique may be a useful method for studying the heterogeneity of mammary tumors and may facilitate the isolation of mammary tumor subpopulations.
20170451|Cell extracts of five mosquito cell lines and a tick cell line were examined for four cellular isozymes using a cellulose-acetate electrophoretic technique. This method distinguished the cell lines that were derived from the different species. Intraspecies distinctions were not made using the cell lines tested; the significance of this finding is discussed. The usefulness of this technique in identifying a potentially mislabeled cell line was demonstrated.
4292453|Cells of organs and tissues commonly communicate directly with one another via permeable membrane junctions. Cell-to-cell channels, spanning the width of both membranes of a junction, are thought to provide the pathways between the cytoplasms of adjacent cells for the immediate exchange of ions and small molecules. We study these cell-to-cell channels in a cell model system, the salivary gland of Chironomus. Using intracellularly injected fluorescent labelled peptides and oligosaccharides of various molecular dimensions as channel permeability probes we find the channels to have a bore of about 2 nm. The channel permeability can be modulated and, in the extreme, the channels can be closed under various experimental conditions. With the aid of the
4291829| Sera commonly used in cell and tissue culture as medium supplements possess high peptidase activity. Oligopeptides incubated with 1% serum are rapidly hydrolyzed to intermediate length peptides and the constituent amino acids. Hydrolysis of lysine peptides is difficult to verify by a quantitative ninhydrin procedure because of reaction of the lysine -amino group and serum components with ninhydrin. Attempts to evaluate oligopeptides as sole sources of indispensable amino acids for cultured mammalian cells are of doubtful value when serum is used as a medium supplement. 
20170546|Cells derived from the brain of a 6 wk-old ferret have been subcultured over 100 times and have undergone over 400 population doublings in vitro. These cells, referred to as Mpf cells, have an absolute efficiency of colony formation in excess of 45%, exhibit a mean population doubling time of 12.5 h, possess ferret-specific antigens, and have isozymes with electrophoretic properties that are the same as those of isozymes found in ferret liver. The cells exhibit a cytopathic effect and support the synthesis of progency virus when they are infected with the viruses of lymphocytic choriomeningitis, Newcastle disease, pseudorabies, Sindbis, vaccinia, and vesicular stomatitis. The passage level of the Mpf cells, their elapsed number of population doublings, their possession of ferret-specific antigens, and the comigration of four isozymes obtained from these cells and ferret liver define the cells as an established line of ferret cells.
4291779|When a population of 3T3 mouse cells was subcultured regularly at confluency, the original epitheliodid or stellate cells disappeared and, by the ninth passage, they had been replaced by spindle-shaped cells. The original cells proliferated only when the extra-cellular calcium concentration exceeded 0.1 mM, and their proliferative activity became maximum only when the calcium concentration was 0.5 mM. The spindle-shaped cells were much more sensitive to proliferative stimulation by calcium. Although these cells also could not proliferate without extracellular ionic calcium, they proliferated maximally in the presence of as little as 0.05 mM calcium. Thus, calcium is a major regulator of the proliferation of 3T3 mouse cells. Moreover, it appears that the sensitivity of the proliferative machinery to the calcium ion can vary greatly within an established cell line.
4291842|Susceptibility to chemically induced transformation changed as a rat embryo cell culture was passaged. For the first 35 to 60 passages, the cultures were diploid and resistant to transformation by chemical carcinogens. However, cultures infected with a murine leukemia virus were transformed by chemicals. For the next 60 passages, the cultures were heteroploid, but retained contact inhibition and were not tumorigenic. Even without addition of heterotypic viruses, these heteroploid cultures could be transformed by chemicals, but the endogenous rat C-type virus could be demonstrated in the transformed cultures. At higher passages, the rates of spontaneous transformation gradually increased so that the cultures could not be used for transformation studies. Chemically induced transformation of the stable heteroploid cell line (F1706) was manifested by an easy to read focal alteration. Initial observations based on these foci were confirmed by inoculating the morphologically altered cells into isogeneic newborn rats. A number of carcinogenic and noncarcinogenic chemical analogues were tested for their ability to transform F1706 cultures. The compounds tested included 4 azo dyes, 12 polycyclic hydrocarbons, 12 aromatic amines, and 7 miscellaneous compounds. Based on the known activities of the same chemicals in rodents, certain active compounds failed to induce transformation in any test, and others induced transformation in only some tests, but these in vitro tests, if used as a screening assay, would have been correct in 82% of all individual tests, and over-all, would have correctly predicted the carcinogenic activity of 33 of the 35 agents tested.
4291713|Hamster tumor cells requiring glutamine for survival and growth were used in this study. By gradually reducing the glutamine concentration over a period of 3 weeks, it was possible to establish a line which grew in the absence of glutamine. These cells, in contrast to the glutamine-dependent cells, showed parallel alignment which is typical of normal hamster embryo fibroblasts. They were, however, readily distinguishable from normal cells because they grew to higher maximum density, were more refractile when examined by phase-contrast microscopy, and were more readily dispersed with trypsin. Injection of these cells into hamsters resulted in the development of slow growing solid tumors. When cells from these tumors were explanted into tissue culture, they were found to have reverted to glutamine dependence and to display the random crisscross growth pattern which was typical of the tumor cell line from which they were originally derived.
4292182| A cell line, SP-2, was established from spleen tissue of Bairdiella chrysura (the silver perch). The line is susceptible to lymphocystis virus and the amphibian LT-1 virus but refractory to six additional viruses. The modal chromosome number of primary silver perch cells is 48, but SP-2 cells are heteroploid. For growth, Leibovitz L-15 medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum and sodium chloride (to 0.150 M) was employed. Cells replicated best at 25 to 28 C. 
4292216|Germ-pore-containing ovule sections, excised from date palm (Phoenix dactylifera) fruit 2 to 3 months after pollination, produced callus in a medium enriched with 2,4-D. Reculture of callus in auxin-less medium resulted in development of numerous asexual embryos. Callus development and asexual embryogenesis also were observed in Howeia forsteriana and Chamaedorea costaricana embryo explants, although not as profusely as in P. dactylifera.
4291964|Adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic AMP) phosphodiesterase activity in mouse neuroblastoma cells in culture markedly increased during exponential growth and reached a maximal level at confluency; whereas guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic GMP) phosphodiesterase activity only slightly but significantly increased under a similar experimental condition. The increase in cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase activity was blocked by both cycloheximide and dactinomycin, whereas the increase in cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase was blocked by only cycloheximide. When the confluent cells were replated at low density, the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase activity decreased; however, when they were plated at high cell density which equaled confluency, the enzyme activity did not decrease. Unlike cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase activity, cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase activity did not change significantly in prostaglandin
20170284|Fragments of adult renal tissue were maintained as organ cultures for 7 days in HEPES-buffered medium 199, supplemented with 10% calf serum and antibiotics. Addition of aprotinin (10,000 kallikrein inhibitor units per ml) to the medium resulted in improved survival of the cells of the glomeruli and tubules and preserved the integrity of the glomerular, capsular and tubular basement membranes. Optimal results were obtained when aprotinin was present throughout the period of culturing. Inclusion of aprotinin in the medium for only the first 3 days in vitro slightly increased the numbers of surviving glomerular and tubular cells, but also promoted the growth of connective tissue in the explants and was detrimental to the basement membranes of the tubules. It is suggested that both the antiproteolytic and the carbohydrate-binding properties of aprotinin are involved in the mediation of the observed effects.
4292136|An explant culture system has been developed for the long-term maintenance of colonic tissue from the rat. Explants of
4291994|The in vitro fate of bovine fetal fluid cells and the efficiency of fetal sex prediction from cultures of these cells are studied using aspirates from live animals and pregnant uteri collected from the slaughterhouse. Over 70% of bovine amniotic fluid samples aspirated from pregnant uteri at the time of slaughter yielded cultures adequate for chromosome analysis, whereas only 10% of allantoic fluid samples produced growth of cells satisfactory for chromosome analysis. Fetal sexing accuracy was 100% in all samples studied. Seven readily recognizable cell types were noted in cultures of fetal fluid cells obtained at various stages of gestation. In a majority of cases, the in vitro morphology of cells from both fetal cavities was similar to that observed in primary human amniotic fluid cell cultures.
20170374|Somatic cell hybrids exhibiting co-expression of the globin genes of two species were generated by fusion of mouse erythroleukemia cells with Chinese hamster or human marrow erythroid cells. In contrast, extinction of the mouse globin genes occurred in hybrids formed between the erythroleukemia cells and human fibroblasts. Direct detection of the human globin genes in human X mouse fibroblast hybrids was achieved by annealing of DNA from these cells to human globin complementary DNA. This method was developed to permit the chromosomal assignment of the human globin genes.
20170437|A cell line derived in 1956 from normal dog kidney is described. The cells are epithelial, contact-inhibited, and can be maintained in the same culture vessels for periods of more than 2.5 yr. Karyologically, the cells are hypodiploid with a modal number of 72 as opposed to the diploid number of 78. The karyotype indicates male origin of the cells and clonal derivation of extant cultures due to the presence of two marker chormosomes in all metaphases observed. At the 159th passage the dog kidney (DK) cells did not produce tumors in athymic rats. At least 13 viruses of types produced transmissible cytopathogenic effects in the DK cells, including all of the human influenza viruses investigated.
4292402| Factors have been studied from human platelets that promote the growth of a hormone-responsive rat mammary adenocarcinoma cell line MTW9/PL, the BALB/c 3T3 mouse embryo fibroblasts, and numerous other established cell lines. A wide variety of the commonly employed cell lines, including lines of human, mouse, monkey, chicken, rat, Chinese hamster, and Syrian hamster origin, were tested for their growth response to a standard concentration of 200 g/ml human platelet lysate, and the lysate was found to contain mitogenic activity for 24 of the 29 different lines assayed. A comparison was made between the platelet growth activity for the MTW9/PL cells and the well characterized platelet mitogen for the BALB/c 3T3 cells, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). When the platelet lysate was subjected to digestion by highly purified trypsin, the mitogenic activity for the MTW9/PL cells was not affected whereas that for the BALB/c 3T3 cells was essentially destroyed. Crude PDGF was prepared by heating the human platelet lysates at 100 C for 2 min followed by clarification, dialysis, lyophilization, and reconstitution. This PDGF material had no apparent growth activity for MTW9/PL cells, although chromatography of this material on Biogel P-100 revealed a high molecular weight (approximately 40,000 daltons) activity for the BALB/c 3T3 cells (presumably PDGF) and two growth activities for the MTW9/PL cells, one high molecular weight activity and a second activity of molecular weight less than 10,000. These studies demonstrated a form of epithelial tumor cell growth activity separable from the 3T3 type PDGF in crude heated extracts. 
4291748|Microsporophylls of Pinus resinosa and megagametophyte tissue of Pinus nigra var. austriaca and Pinus mugo var. mughus were cultured on Brown and Lawrence's medium. The microsporophylls formed a mixed haploid-diploid callus, and the megagametophyt.p tissue a purely haploid callus. Subcultures were established of the calluses. The mode of development of haploid callus and various types of organization in the calluses are described. Chromosome stickiness occurred in old calluses.
4291777|An agar medium has been developed which permits formation of colonies from cells of the insect cell line Trichoplusia ni, with a plating efficiency of 1%. This technique has been successfully applied in the cloning of the T. ni line and is applicable to other insect lines displaying this property. Morphology, growth curves, and population doubling times of several clones are presented.
4292652|Fibroblasts of the synovium of sheathed tendons were isolated, and their biochemical properties were compared with those of the fibroblasts of the remaining tendon. The synovial cells had a lower attachment efficiency than did the tendon cells. On the day of cell isolation the synovial cells synthesized collagen as 10% of their total protein, whereas the tendon cells synthesized 30% collagen. After growth in fetal bovine serum (FBS), the percentage of collagen synthesized by both populations decreased; however, the synovial cells still made less collagen than did the tendon cells (5 versus 11%). On the basis of cyanogen bromide peptide analysis, the synovial cells were found to synthesize Types I and III collagen in primary culture, whereas the tendon cells synthesized only Type I. The synovial cells also synthesized two to three times less sulfated glycosaminoglycans in culture than did the tendon cells. Thus, the two cell populations differed in attachment efficiency and in their biosynthesis of collagen and sulfated glycosaminoglycans. These differences reflect extracellular matrix differences that have been observed in the tendon in vivo. In addition, the results augment existing data showing that not all fibroblasts have identical phenotypes.
4292874|The fatty acid composition of different kinds of commercially available serum used to supplement cell culture media differs widely. As compared with fetal bovine serum, horse and bovine calf serum have a very high content of linoleic acid (18:2) and are low in arachidonic acid (20:4). (Fatty acids are abbreviated as number of carbon atomsmumber of double bonds). Swine serum contains substantial amounts of both 18:2 and 20:4. Only fetal bovine serum contains more than 1% docosahexaenoic acid (22:6). Considerable differences in fatty acid composition occur when cells are grown in media containing any of these different serum supplements. The 18:2 and 20:4 content of 3T3 mouse fibroblast phospholipids is highest when the medium contains horse serum, intermediate with bovine calf serum, and lowest with swine or fetal bovine serum. Likewise, the highest phospholipid 18:2 content in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells (MDCK) occurs when the medium contains horse serum. With MDCK cells, however, growth in swine serum produces the highest 20:4 content. The 3T3 cell phospholipids accumulate more than 1% 22:6 only when the medium contains fetal bovine serum, whereas in no case do the MDCK cell phospholipids accumulate appreciable amounts of 22:6. The fact that the cellular fatty acid composition is likely to change should be taken into account when changes are contemplated in the serum used to grow established cell lines.
4292019|Hormonal stimulation of dedifferentiation and redifferentiation can be studied in explanted, cultured plant tissues. Some of the questions about development which one would like to answer with such a system revolve around the role of quiescence in the stabilization of the differentiated state, the role of replication in the stimulation of redifferentiation and the means by which cells are brought out of the quiescent state. Such a system also offers the potential for revealing the level(s) at which plant hormones operate in the stimulation of replication and differentiation since the responses to hormones can be achieved in vitro. The pea-root cortical parenchyma system has been utilized as a model system in the study of cytokinin plus auxin stimulation of redevelopment of mature, quiescent root cells. The first detected response of the root parenchyma to excision and culture with both of these hormones is an enhanced rate of RNA synthesis between 9 and 12 hr after the initiation of culture. DNA synthesis is stimulated 36 to 39 hr after RNA synthesis (after 48 hr in culture). During this 48-hr period various cytological changes have been observed which are compatible with renewed nucleic acid synthesis, but cytological changes have not been observed prior to the onset of hormone-stimulated RNA synthesis. The first mitoses and cytokineses occur after 60 and 72 hr, respectively. Terminally differentiated tracheary elements are first formed in these cultures after 120 to 168 hr when both the cytokinin and auxin are present at adequate levels. Studies employing inhibitors suggest that tracheary element differentiation is dependent upon the DNA replication that normally accompanies cell replication. Temperature probes of the period between the initiation of cultures and the appearance of the terminally differentiated tracheary elements have been initiated and, in conjunction with previous studies employing inhibitors and analogues, may allow one to distinguish between a variety of potential models of hormone-stimulated redifferentiation.
4292687|The clonal growth and serial propagation of rat esophageal epithelial cells in low serumcontaining medium has been achieved without feeder layers or conditioned medium. To date, a total of four lines have been developed and maintained for as many as 40 passages in culture. Growth of the cells was possible only after modifying the culture medium (PFMR-4) by reducing the calcium concentration from 1 to 0.1 mM, and by adding low levels of dialyzed fetal bovine serum and seven growth factors; i.e. epidermal growth factor, hydrocortisone, ethanolamine, phosphoethanolamine, insulin, transferrin, and cholera toxin. Cell lines have been developed from both explant outgrowths and enzyme dissociated esophagi. The epithelial nature of the cells was confirmed by electron microscopy and immunological methods. Clonal growth studies revealed that optimal cell growth occurred in medium containing 2.4% dialyzed fetal bovine serum and 0.1 mM calcium. Calcium levels of 0.3 mMor higher caused the cells to stratify and undergo terminal differentiation. Coating the culture dishes with collagen, or a combination of collagen, fibronectin, and bovine serum albumin, increased both the cell growth rate and the colony forming efficiency. The successful long term culture of rat esophageal epithelial cells permits their use as models in studies concerned with esophageal differentiation and carcinogenesis.
4292038|In the present study we tested the feasibility of utilizing a structurally modified polyene antibiotic, amphotericin B methyl ester (AME), as a half-selection agent for isolating somatic cell hybrids. By using HAT medium supplemented with AME we have isolated interspecific mouse-hamster hybrids from mixed cultures of mouse (
4292844|Angiotensinogen is synthesized in large amounts by Fao cells derived from the Reuber H35 rat hepatoma in a medium enriched with 5% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Treatment of FBS with dextran-coated charcoal removed endogenous steroids without modifying angiotensinogen production. This treatment allowed the study of the effects of steroids on angiotensinogen production. Hydrocortisone increased the angiotensinogen synthesis in a dose-dependent manner. The antiglucocorticoid RU 38486 did not change the basal rate of angiotensinogen production but inhibited the stimulation by hydrocortisone. Similar results were obtained with dexamethasone. Angiotensinogen biosynthesis seems to be regulated by two distinct mechanisms: (a) glucocorticoid independent, controlling the basal rate of angiotensinogen production and (b) glucocorticoid dependent, mediating the increased rate of angiotensinogen production upon glucocorticoid treatment.
20170497|It was reported previously that plasma derived human serum (PDS) inhibited the growth of cells established from malignant human breast tissues and the MCF-7 cell line but did not inhibit the growth of cells from nonmalignant mammary tissues, including the HBL-100 cell line. Plasma derived human serum was fractionated in the current study by molecular sieve chromatography on Sephadex G-100 in an effort to characterize the factor(s) responsible for inhibition. Plasma derived human serum contained several growth inhibitory fractions, which were designated G-1, G-2, G-3, and G-4. The G-1 was associated with the lipoproteins and immunoglobulins of serum. The lipid portion of G-1 inhibited the growth of both MCF-7 and HBL-100 cells, whereas the protein fraction contained a low activity factor directed against MCF-7 cells only. The G-2 also inhibited MCF-7 cell growth at a low specific activity and was separated in the serum albumin fraction. The MCF-7 inhibitory activity in the G-3 fractions from individual donors fluctuated with the level of activity in the starting sera. The cell specific G-3 components were purified further by Sephadex G-100 superfine chromatography and gel electrophoresis. A tentative molecular weight of 50,000 was assigned to the G-3 inhibitor. The G-4 fraction consisted of small molecular weight materials migrating in advance of the column volume, which inhibited the growth of both cell lines.
4292247|A method is described for obtaining and culturing large numbers of lung cells from normal adult male rats. The lungs were perfused in situ to remove blood cells and then perfused via the trachea with a trypsin-collagenase solution to initiate tissue digestion. The tissue was further digested in the enzyme solution and approximately 2  10
4292203| Cell lines derived from embryos of the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta (L.), showed a marked morphological response to treatment with physiological doses of -ecdysone. The response of these cell lines with a-ecdysone indicated that the penta-ol (-ecdysone) must be converted to the hexa-ol (-ecdysone) form before the morphological response can appear. Liquid chromatographic analysis of the spent medium confirmed that the cells converted the -ecdysone to -ecdysone in amounts that exceeded the threshold level for a biological response. Constant exposure to -ecdysone produced a cell line that was resistant to the killing effect of -ecdysone and failed entirely to respond to the presence of -ecdysone. 
4292096|Cytochalasin B (CB) has been shown to have many biological effects on cultured cells. We report that an initial 48-hr treatment of freshly plated chick embryo limb mesoderm cells with CB irreversibly inhibits chondrogenesis. A slight inhibition in the amount of matrix is seen when limb cells are allowed to grow in culture for 24 hr prior to treatment for the second 24 hr of culture. If the cells are allowed to plate-out and grow for 48 hr or longer prior to being treated with CB for 24 hr, the amount of matrix produced is essentially the same as that seen in the controls. However, if the initial 48-hr culture period is followed by a 48- or 72-hr treatment, chondrogenesis is reduced, but not to the same extent as that seen in cultures treated for the first 48 or 72 hr. The irreversible inhibition of chrondrogenesis does not appear to be due to irreversible inhibition of protein synthesis or hexose uptake because, although these are reduced during treatment, they return to control levels within 48 hr following the removal of the drug. We cannot mimic the effect of CB treatment using glucose-deficient medium, thereby eliminating the possibility that a critical glucose level is necessary to permit chondrogenesis. Multinucleation of limb cells treated with CB is reversed within 4 to 7 days following the removal of the drug. Therefore multinucleation alone is probably not responsible for the CB effect on chondrogenesis. However, other subtle permanent changes may occur during the period of multinucleation which result in the irreversible inhibition of chondrogenesis.
4291701|Steroid-mediated induction of alkaline phosphatase in HeLa cells could not be ascribed to detectable qualitative or quantitative changes in cell proteins separable by disc gel electrophoresis. Similarly, neither qualitative nor quantitative differences in membrane proteins were observed after HeLa cell strains with either inducible or suppressible alkaline phosphatases were exposed to prednisolone. However, differences in protein profiles of the two cell strains were present.
4291894| Cell lines were isolated from three stages of embryos of Blattella germanica dissociated with trypsin. The lines have been subcultured 50 to 134 times in 3 years. Line UM-BGE-1 was isolated from germ band embryos at stages of segmentation and limb-bud formation (5 days old). Line UM-BGE-2 was derived from embryos at dorsal closure (7 days old). Line UM-BGE-4 arose from embryos in the germ band and dorsal closure stages (5 and 7 days old); these cells colonize as hollow spheres or vesicles. Line UM-BGE-5, isolated during organogenesis (10 days old), developed into two distinct sublines. Subline  is composed of round cells that do not attach to the flask. Subline  grows as an attached monolayer; the cells can be removed with a saline solution containing 20 mM disodium dihydrogen Versenate. Most of the cells of these lines have the diploid chromosome number (23 or 24) excepting line UM-BGE-1 in which the tetraploid number predominates. 
20170388|A small hot wire device for cutting plastic culture ware can be constructed of steel rod, brass screws, nichrome wire and acrylic plastic sheeting and tubing. The nichrome wire is heated using a variable power transformer. Four sequential cuts are made in the culture flask bottom and the bottom separated from the remainder of the flask. Cultures can be stained, air-dried and cover slips affixed with PVP or epoxy resin. This method of cutting culture ware avoids the formation of small bits of polystyrene generated by rotating discs or saws.
4291538|In monolayer cultures of mouse adrenal cortex tumor cells, high concentrations of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate and 3',5'-cyclic cytidine monophosphate (1.0 to 10.0 mM) produce steroidogenic responses equivalent to maximally stimulating levels of adrenocorticotropin. 3',5'-Cyclic guanosine monophosphate and other cyclic nucleotides are not steroidogenic. Although the steroidogenic action of adrenocorticotropin is accompanied by an increased rate of glycolytic activity, the cyclic nucleotides stimulate steroidogenesis without increasing glycolysis. The data suggest that adrenocorticotropin can effect certain alterations in adrenal metabolism by a mechanism which does not involve the adenyl cyclase system.
4291971|Thirteen cell lines derived from embryos of the mouse, rat and hamster were sampled at closely spaced intervals for cytology and spontaneous neoplastic transformation. Transformation, determined by growth of the cells as malignant neoplasms in compatible hosts, occurred in eight lines and appeared to be unrelated to time in culture, passage number, proliferative activity of the cells or type of serum used to supplement the culture medium. In an effort to establish cytologic criteria for malignancy of rodent fibroblasts, cultures were examined for 19 cytologic abnormalities. The percentage of cells or colonies showing each of the abnormal properties was recorded. Five of the 19 were found to correlate with neoplastic transformation in all cell lines. These were cytoplasmic basophilia, reduced cytoplasmic spreading on substrate, cording, high nuclear: cytoplasmic ratio and clumping. Each of these properties is amenable to quantitation or computerized image analysis. On the basis of the five cytologie criteria, the percentage of colonies diagnosed neoplastic, borderline and non-neoplastic was determined for each line. Although these percentages varied from one transplant generation to another, the percentage of neoplastic colonies tended to increase with time in all lines which became malignant, and the borderline colonies tended to decrease, suggesting a progression from borderline to neoplastic state.
4291870|Articular cartilage from 6-month-old calves was maintained in organ culture in Eagle's minimum essential medium at different oxygen tensions between 20 and 50%. When well standardized cartilage pieces of about 1 mm thickness were used the results showed a high degree of reproducibility. The glycosaminoglycans were studied using the cetylpyridinium chloride cellulose and epichlorohydrin triethanolamine (ECTEOLA) column techniques on a microscale. In some experiments the cartilage was labelled with
20170535|Two mixed cell lines designated REN-1 and REN-2 were established successfully in continuous in vitro culture from subcutaneously propagated transplant tissue derived from a nephroblastoma which had occurred spontaneously in an Nb hooded rat. In monolayer culture the lines consisted of clumps, islands, and cords of densely crowded, small basophilic cells of epithelioid character, together with mesenchymelike cells occupying the intervening spaces. The proportion of epithelioid cells to mesenchyme could be enhanced by high seeding densities and the intermittent application of cishydroxyproline to the medium. A third cell form with the appearance of more mature epithelium was observed as a later development in one of the monolayer cultures (REN-1). This larger epithelial cell and a homogeneous mesenchymal population were isolated as cloned cell lines from REN-1 (REN-1-C/2 and REN-1-C/1, respectively), but attempts to clone the dominant basophilic epithelioid cell were not successful. Light and electron microscopy indicated the small, basophilic epithelioid cells to be morphologically consistent with the undifferentiated embryonal blast cells of the parent tumor. They were a distinctive population unlike known malignant cell lines representative of chemically transformed rat kidney mesenchyme and epithelium. The mesenchymelike cells present in the uncloned cell lines, and cloned in REN-1-C/1, were fibroblasts by ultrastructural criteria and therefore distinct from the epithelioid moiety. Ultrastructurally the larger epithelium cloned in REN-1-C/2 displayed the features of differentiated renal epithelium. Subcutaneous transplantation in syngeneic and allogeneic recipients showed the uncloned parent cell lines containing the basophilic epithelioid population to be highly tumorigenic, producing rapidly growing tumors that were unequivocal nephoblastomas. The mesenchymal clone, REN-1-C/1, was also tumorigenic but, consistent with its fibroblastic nature, produced only fibrosarcomas on transplantation. The mature epithelial clone, REN-1-C/2, transplanted as an anaplastic carcinoma with limited tubule formation. Because of their distinctive morphology and growth behavior, and their ability to proliferate into nephroblastomas on transplantation, the dominant population of basophilic epithelioid cells in the parent uncloned cell lines is considered to represent neoplastic kidney cells of undifferentiated embryonal type. The possible host origin of the mesenchymal population from the supporting stroma of the original transplantation tumor is suggested in discussion.
4292588|Exposure of HTC cells to sodium butyrate caused inhibition of growth. The site of growth inhibition was studied by time-lapse cinematography and [
20170421|Cell culture has been recognized as an extremely sensitive system for measuring the toxicity of various materials. A study was done to determine whether the type of tube used to collect blood or store human serum might affect results in experiments requiring blood drawn into such tubes. In order to test tubes for contaminants that might alter cellular activity, a variety of commercially available tubes used for collection of blood and storage of serum were shaken while containing culture medium with fetal bovine serum. The medium was then applied to 3T3 fibroblasts in culture. Measuring incorporation of tritiated thymidine into DNA in log phase cells as an index of cellular proliferation, it was found that medium containing serum preincubated in tubes routinely used for blood collection could be extremely toxic. The same types of tube were also used to prepare human serum. When serum from some of the tubes was applied to 3T3 fibroblasts, a stimulatory effect was observed, perhaps caused by selective adsorption of inhibitory components of the blood or serum by various tubes. It is, therefore, crucial in a properly controlled experiment using serum in vitro to collect blood in tubes that exert no toxic or stimulatory effects in the assay or, at least, to be consistent in one's choice of tube. None of the tubes used for storage of serum showed significant effects in our assay.
4292105|A series of manipulations designed to promote cell adhesion and spreading made it possible to maintain satisfactorily hamster peritoneal macrophages in vitro for up to 30 days. The essential requirements for this include in vivo stimulation of the peritoneal cavity, coating of the substratum with polylysine, and the use of HEPES-buffered medium 199 supplemented with horse serum (10%), fetal bovine serum (10%), and lactalbumin hydrolysate (0.5%). Results with the single deletion of the medium components indicate that serum factors are essential for optimal spreading, and horse serum and lactalbumin hydrolysate for the adhesion of in vivo stimulated macrophages on coated glass surface. The thorotrast-labeling method revealed that secondary lysosomes are especially numerous in cultured cells, which otherwise resemble mouse macrophages in cellular organization, as shown by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. More than 95% of the cultured cells manifested cytochalasin B-sensitive phagocytosis of polystyrene latex spheres which, along with morphologic and ultrastructural evidence, indicate the homogeneity of cell population. Erythrophagocytosis of hamster macrophages was demonstrated by scanning electron microscopy and found higher after opsonization implying the presence of receptors for immune ligands on their cell surface.
4292108|Under the influence of biochemical components of bone matrix gelatin (BMG), cartilage differentiates in tissue culture from the connective tissue cell outgrowths of mature muscle. Proliferation and differentiation begin within 24 hr with synthesis of hyaluronate, continue with high levels of synthesis of DNA and hyaluronidase, and culminate in production of large quantities of chondroitin sulfate. The addition of hyaluronic acid to the culture medium during the first 48 hr of culture depresses, whereas chondroitin sulfate enhances, subsequent production of cartilage. These observations on the cell biosynthetic products prior to the appearance of mature cartilage suggest that the BMG-modified connective tissue outgrowths of mature muscle exhibit the developmental potential of embryonic axial mesenchyme. Whether muscle harbors embryonic cells in a programmed but not yet activated readiness (protodifferentiated state) to differentiate into cartilage, or simply contributes a population of temporarily dedifferentiated fibroblasts, is not known, but in any event, BMG switches the pathway of further development from fibrous connective tissue to cartilage.
4292623|The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases is developing, with the American Type Culture Collection, a central facility for the acquisition, maintenance, and distribution of hybridoma cell lines. This effort finds its principal justification in the great activity in this field and in the large variety of hybridoma lines that are produced because of the intrinsic immense diversity of antibodies the immune system is capable of generating. Thus there clearly needs to exist a mechanism both to facilitate exchange of these cell lines and to assure the preservation of the ones of greatest interest. The burgeoning involvement of commercial interests in the production and marketing of monoclonal antibodies complicates, but in no way vitiates the institute's efforts.
4291613|The design and use of a unit for planting uniform inocula for replicate cultures are described. Its design permits continuous gassing of suspensions of mammalian cells with humidified CO
4291687| An established insect cell line (AC20) from the leafhopper Agallia constricta has been adapted to a mammalian cell culture medium based on the formulation of two commercially available media. The cell population doubling time of the adapted line in this medium is approximately 45 hr at 30C. 
4292441|Simian virus 40-transformed 3T3 cells are dependent on serum for survival and growth. This growth activity can be separated on a pH 2 Sephadex G100 column into two fractions: a high molecular weight activity and a low molecular weight substance that has recently been characterized as containing as its major agent, biotin. To replace the remainder of the serum requirement, hormones and other growth factors were tested. Both insulin at high, non physiological concentrations (200 to 500 ng/ml) and transferrin (
4291620|An established immunoglobulin-producing human cell line exhibits a variety of morphological entities described as reticular, lymphoid, and plasmacytoid cells. Transitional forms are frequent, and time lapse photomicrography experiments demonstrate morphological interconversion. The round forms and their morphological precursors synthesize immunoglobulin and constitute about 44% of the cell population. This cell line displays a variety of morphological and functional properties assigned to in vivo lymphoid cell series. It is proposed as an in vitro model for the study of lymphoid cells.
20170339| Effects of the enzymes trypsin, papain, bromelains and ficin on bovine dental pulp tissue were studied. Minced or whole pulps were subjected to each enzyme at 17, 20 and 37C for set time intervals, after which aliquots of supernatant fluid were removed for cell counts and viability tests. Pooled samples were subsequently cultured as monolayers in Eagle's MEM plus 10% calf serum. The dissociation characteristics were quite distinct for each enzyme, although quite similar between minced and whole pulp. A parallel histological study was made of the residual pulp tissue. Ficin was found to be the most suitable enzyme for future studies on the growth of isolated pulp cells from various layers of the bovine pulp, due to its even rate of cell removal, and the good initial viability and subsequent growth of the separated cells in monolayer culture. Further studies on ficin may show that it is more suitable for enzymatic separation of tissues generally than the more commonly used trypsin, a major advantage being its use in media containing Ca and Mg. 
20170480| The effect of 3 methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3-Me-DAB) in the induction of malignant transformation and of 8-azaguanine-resistant mutations and chromosomal aberrations was studied in a diploid strain derived from normal rat liver cells. The cells were malignantly transformed by treatment with 3-Me-DAB 1.7 g/ml for 130 to 221 d or 1.7 g/ml for 53 d followed by 24.9 g/ml for 27 to 77 d. The untreated control cells did not transform spontaneously until the 232nd d in culture. Some properties of the 3-Me-DAB-treated cells were compared to those of untreated control cells but no reliable marker for predicting the tumorigenic potential of the cells was found. The single addition of 3-Me-DAB caused little induction of 8-azaguanine-resistant mutations and chromosomal aberrations to the cells. However, mutations and chromosomal aberrations were significantly induced by N-acetoxy-4-methylaminoazobenzene, an active metabolite of 4-dimethylaminoazobenzene or 3-Me-DAB in the presence of liver microsomes. 
4292073|The DAUDI lymphoblast cell line derived from a patient with Burkitt lymphoma was obtained from two different sources. One of these (DAUDI-I) produced a factor that inhibited lymphocyte proliferation in both human and mouse regardless of the stimulator, i.e. allogeneic lymphocytes or mitogens. Glutaraldehyde treatment eliminated production of the factor and demonstrated that DAUDI-I was capable of stimulating normal lymphocytes in MLR. A second DAUDI cell line (DAUDI-S) did not produce the inhibitory factor and was capable of MLR stimulation.
4292075| The establishment of cultured cell lines from skin biopsies stored at -196 C for periods up to 1 year has been investigated. Attempts to initiate cell cultures from the frozen tissue samples were uniformly successful. There was no alteration in chromosome constitution, morphological appearance, or specific activities of lysosomal enzymes in cells cultured from the stored samples. This process can safeguard against failure of the initial tissue culture and provide an alternate means of storing viable cells when it is impossible or impractical to initiate a cell culture immediately. 
4291662|Newborn BALB/e mouse brain was cultured as disaggregated cells after serial trypsin dissociations. The ontogeny of the cultures was followed by assays of cell number, deoxyribonucleic acid, and protein content and by the activities of three enzymes considered to be markers of neuronal differentiation. Aliquots of the freshly dissociated cells were assayed for choline acetylase, acetylcholinesterase, and glutamic acid decarboxylase activities and compared with intact brain. The percentages of recovery of activities, expressed as
4291974|Cells of embryos carrying a lethal nucleolar mutation have been maintained in vitro for extended periods of time. Normally these mutants live only 9 to 12 days after fertilization but their cells in culture will survive for more than 3 months. The extent of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) synthesis was determined in primary cultures prepared from normal embryos and nucleolar mutants having different numbers of ribosomal RNA genes. We found that the accumulation of radioactivity into rRNA for normal and mutant embryos was similar in vivo and in vitro. In primary cultures of normal embryos which have two nucleoli per cell and mutant embryos which have only one nucleolus per cell, the incorporation of radioactivity into rRNA was similar even though the normal cells have twice as many rRNA genes. Thus the mechanism which regulates dosage compensation of the rRNA genes operates both in vivo and in vitro.
4291726|This report presents the results of studies on differences in the responsiveness of the different mammary glands of virgin mice in whole mammary gland organ culture. The entire second and third thoracic and the fourth inguinal mammary fat pads containing the parenchyma were excised and incubated in Waymouth's medium (MB752/1) supplemented with the hormones estradiol, progesterone, aldosterone, insulin, growth hormone, and prolactin. The rate of DNA synthesis was determined by acid-insoluble
4292754|In a previous study glucocorticoids have been shown to depress the rate of fluid-phase endocytosis in a macrophage cell line,
4291780|Two methods for determining the hydrocarbon-metabolizing enzyme activity of cultured mammalian cells were compared. The method designed to measure benzo[a]anthracene-induced aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity could detect and quantify enzyme activities in low passage rodent cells, but could not reproducibly detect levels in intermediate or high passage mouse, rat, or human cells. The method designed to measure the ability of a cell to convert benzo[a]pyrene from an organic-soluble to an aqueous acetone-soluble form proved to be more reproducible. This technique, when modified, was demonstrated to be an effective screening test for the detection of those lines with higher levels of hydrocarbon-metabolizing enzymes.
20170544| When IPL-Sf-21AE III continuous insect cell line was grown and maintained in IPL-41 insect cell culture medium supplemented with 16 M of AlCl or 0.24 M of ZnSO7HO, or both metallic salts, and then infected with Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus, virus replication was increased significantly. The yield of polyhedral inclusion bodies (PIB) was enhanced up to 121%. Synthesis of cellfree nonoccluded virus was increased to 365% when infectivity was assayed by the plaque method. Newly applied electron microscopic quantitation and stereological techniques also revealed a significant increase in virus particles (VP) and in amount and size of PIB as well as number of VP per PIB. 
4291953|When pregnant mice were exposed to 40 mg per kg of cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) on days 10 to 12 of gestation, adactylous limbs with large, distally located blisters were found when the fetuses were examined on day 18. Embryonic limbs exposed transplacentally under identical conditions and explanted to culture exhibited the same morphological abnormality as did limbs exposed directly in culture to
4291813|Many naturally occurring C-type RNA viruses are of endogenous origin. The genetic information for synthesizing these RNA viruses is present in the DNA of normal mouse cells, probably as part of their chromosomal DNA. Some C-type viruses infect mouse cells (homotropic virus), while others infect certain tissue culture cells from other species but not mouse fibroblasts (xenotropic virus). All mouse strains studied appear to contain endogenous xenotropic viral genomes. However, based on the regularity with which homotropic virus is detected, inbred mice can be divided into high, low, and non-virus-yielding strains. Nucleic acid hybridization studies have shown that DNA from high virus strains contains several copies of the homotropic virus genome, while that from low virus strains contains fewer copies, and DNA from nonvirus strains lacks a significant portion of the homotropic virus genome. In vivo and in vitro genetic studies support the nucleic acid hybridization results. In addition, high virus mouse strains are more likely than low virus strains to release virus that will replicate efficiently in their own cells. Methods for the activation and detection of endogenous C-type virus in tissue culture are discussed.
4292017| Multiplication of normal diploid cells in culture is controlled by a complex set of interacting extracellular variables. The amount of serum protein needed for colony formation by such cells is affected directly by many of the other variables, including the nature of the culture surface, the type of trypsinization procedure used, and the qualitative and quantitative composition of the culture medium. By a sequential process of adjusting all of these variables to optimum values for cellular multiplication with minimal amounts of serum protein, we have been able to obtain clonal growth of normal human and chicken cells with less than 500 g per ml dialyzed serum protein. Precise quantitative adjustment of nutrient concentrations is particularly important. The multiplication-promoting functions of serum can be classified operationally as "replaceable" (those that can be replaced by modifying the medium or the culture conditions) and "nonreplaceable" (those that we have not yet been able to replace). Elimination of the requirement for replaceable functions of serum has improved greatly the specificity and sensitivity of the bioassay for the nonreplaceable functions. The nonreplaceable multiplication-promoting activity from fetal bovine serum for human diploid fibroblasts has been separated from fetuin and serum albumin and purified approximately 15-fold. 
4292154| Comparisons have been made of cell surface glycoproteins, concanavalin A agglutinability, and cloning efficiencies in liquid media of ICR 2A (haploid frog cells), ICR 2A M (three cloned populations of haploid frog cells resistant to 5 g per ml of the poly ene antibiotic mediocidin), and ICR 2A M/MV cells (five cloned populations of morphologically variant haploid frog cells produced by exposure of the parental cells to the combined effects of mediocidin and an RNA mammalian virus, Mengo virus). Independently isolated ICR 2A M/MV clones exhibited altered cell surface glycoproteins, increased concanavalin A agglutinability, and enhanced cloning efficiency in liquid media when compared with ICR 2A parental cells. In contrast, ICR 2A M cells had properties similar to ICR 2A cells, with the exception of the former's increased resistance to mediocidin. The differences in properties between ICR 2A M/MV and ICR 2A cells suggest that alterations resembling transformation have occurred in ICR 2A M/MV cells as a consequence of combined treatment with mediocidin and Mengo virus. 
4292558|An optimized medium, designated MCDB 411, has been developed for mouse neuroblastoma cells. At cell densities of 1  10
4292371|Mammary tumor epithelial cells from BALB/cfC3H mice were dispersely embedded inside the collagen gels in Ham's F-12 medium containing horse serum. A sustained cell growth leading to a 5- to 10-fold increase in cell number over initial level was observed in less than 2 weeks. The extent of this growth was found to be dependent on serum concentration. However, addition of various protein and steroid hormones, both singly and in combination, to low-serum-containing medium failed to achieve a comparable level of growth to that promoted by higher serum concentration. Mammary tumor cells can now be consistently propagated in primary culture.
4292271|Human embryonic lung fibroblasts (IMR-90 and WI-38) were arrested in the G, phase of the cell cycle by serum deprivation and high population density. Within 1 hr after the addition of medium containing fresh serum, these cells showed an increase in rRNA synthesis. The inclusion of
4291710|Thirty-seven lots of fetal bovine sera were examined for the presence of Escherichia coli-specific bacterial viruses, and 23 were positive. No correlation was found between the presence of bacterial virus and poor growth-promoting qualities of the sera. One bacterial virus contaminant of fetal bovine serum was isolated and examined by electron microscopy.
4291955|Growth of choriocarcinoma cells in the presence of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdUrd) results in a 30- to 40-fold increase in alkaline phosphatase activity. The effect of BrdUrd is specific for phosphatase with an alkaline pH optimum. The induction by BrdUrd is probably not due to the production of an altered enzyme, since the induced enzyme resembles the basal enzyme in thermal denaturation and kinetic properties. Enzyme induction can be prevented by thymidine but not by deoxycytidine or deoxyuridine. The induction of alkaline phosphatase appears to require incorporation of the BrdUrd into cellular DNA. The presence of BrdUrd in the growth medium is not necessary for alkaline phosphatase induction in proliferating cells containing BrdUrd-substituted genomes. However, enzyme induction and maintenance of the induced levels of alkaline phosphatase in nonproliferating cells containing BrdUrd-substituted DNA requires the presence of the analogues in the medium. The induction of alkaline phosphatase by BrdUrd in probably an indirect process.
4292242| Novikoff rat hepatoma cells (subline NlSl-67) grew when 30 mM L-lactate or pyruvate was substituted for D-glucose in Swim's medium 67 supplemented with dialyzed calf bovine serum. A 2.6-fold increase in cell number (1.34 generations) was obtained. RNA, DNA, protein and dry weight increased in proportion to the cell number. In control medium lacking L-lactate, pyruvate or D-glucose, cell growth of 0.42 generation was obtained. Growth with L-lactate was dependent on the L-lactate concentration up to 30 mM at which the greatest increase in cell number occurred. Significant growth did not occur when D-lactate, glycerol, acetate, -ketoglutarate, succinate or malate, each at 30 mM, was substituted for D-glucose. Growth in the medium containing L-lactate was not due to the utilization of D-glucose or some other substrate carried into the culture with the inoculum. Medium contamination by D-glucose was insufficient to explain the growth obtained in the medium containing L-lactate, but could have accounted for growth in the control medium. Throughout growth, the concentration of L-lactate in the medium remained unchanged. The increase in cell number cannot be explained by L-lactate triggering the utilization of glycogen, nor by oxidation and degradation of protein, amino acids, fatty acids, or carbohydrate moieties of glycoproteins in the medium. L-Lactate does not serve as a significant carbon or energy source in the growth of these cells. 
20170259| Fetal bovine sera from each of three different commercial sources were tested for their ability to support cloning of human fibroblastoid cells in vitro. Cloning efficiencies varied according to serum source. Serum (10 samples) from company A did not support growth, while sera (10 samples) from companies B and C provided adequate to excellent conditions for cloning and growth. Cells from neonatal foreskin or embryonic lung responded to each serum similarly. Bovine serum albumin type H7 from company C supported cell growth in media without serum. Sera containing 1.0 ng per ml or more of progesterone inhibited growth, whereas sera containing less than 1.0 ng per ml supported cloning and growth. In the low progesterone sera, the concentration of 17--estradiol exceeded 100 pg per ml. Growth supporting sera could be made non-supportive by adding 0.1 g per ml of progesterone. The addition to non-supportive sera of 0.1 g per ml of 17--estradiol or hydrocortisone made these sera supportive of cell growth. Addition of estrogen or hydrocortisone to a culture medium that inhibits growth, with subsequent reversal of the inhibitory effect, implies that these hormones competitively regulate growth of responsive cells in vitro. 
4292720|A transplantable tumor was established in NIH/Swiss/Nu mice from tissue derived from a human breast adenoearcinoma metastatic to the brain. Cultivation of dispersed cells from the third transplant generation of the tumor produced a rapidly growing, high-density culture of fibroblastlike cells. Chromosome and isozyme assays showed these cells to be of mouse origin. The cells behaved as an established line from initial culture. Cells of the tissue culture line, designated NM-1, produced rapidly growing fibrohistiocytomas in nude mice. Electron microscopy revealed that the cells produced large numbers of type C virus particles. Serological, biochemical, and infectivity assays indicated that the retro-virus produced by NM-1 cells is an ecotropic, infective, murine retro virus antigenically related to, but distinguishable from, Gross and Moloney viruses. The virus did not transform mouse fibroblasts. The data support the conclusion that mouse stromal cells within the transplanted human tumor had undergone malignant transformation and induction to virus replication. The role of the virus in the malignant transformation remains to be clarified.
4291907|The method of Deutsch and Weeks was modified to provide a reliable and reasonably quick method for assaying the L-ascorbic acid content of culture medium. The modified method was used to determine the decay of L-ascorbic acid under various conditions of culture and the concentration of the vitamin in commercially prepared media. The half-life of L-ascorbic acid in a modified New circulator gassed with
4291597|A dye exclusion test for differentiating between live and dead tissue culture cells of Aedes aegypti is described. Erythrosin B at a final concentration of 20 mg/100 ml cell suspension stained these cells differentially; dead cells were stained red but the live ones did not take up the dye. There was a close correlation between the number of unstained cells and incorporation of
4291670| Pyrrolidone carboxylic acid, which is formed spontaneously when glutamine is incubated at 37C in a phosphate or bicarbonate medium, was found to inhibit growth of a line of hamster tumor cells which required glutamine for survival and growth. 
20170392| Dexamethasone, R020-1724 and prostaglandin E all induced morphological alterations and increased the glial specific enzyme 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase (CNP) in rat C6 glioma cells in culture. Morphological alterations consisted mainly in the development of astrocytelike changes. Increases in dexamethasone-induced CNP activity was time dependent. Dexamethasone reduced cell growth rate, depending on the concentration employed. 
4292200|Explants of adult mouse intestine have been maintained in organ culture for 24 to 48 hr. The best results have been obtained with a mixture of DMEM-HEPES medium and NCTC-135 enriched with 10% fetal bovine serum. The morphology of the mucosa is well preserved at the light and electron microscopic level: absorbing cells exhibit an increase in secondary lysosomes; goblet cells and Paneth cells remain active; numerous mitoses are observed in the crypts; and vigorous re-epithelization takes place on the margin of the explants.
4292907|Liver parenchymal cells cultured in serum-free medium may retain their ability to synthesize glycogen in response to insulin. Specific hormone requirements are needed by hepatocytes to retain the biochemical pattern of mature cells. Insulin supplementation of culture medium seems to be essential to maintain the glycogen synthesis rate of cultured hepatocytes. The continuous presence of dexamethasone amplified the insulin-induced glycogen synthesis. Cytophotometric analysis showed differences in the way that individual cells accumulate glycogen in response to insulin stimulus, which indicates that liver parenchymal cells in culture are functionally heterogeneous.
4292337| Serially subcultured rat lens epithelial cells grow in different stages, which can be classified according to morphology, chromosome numbers and population kinetics. A lens-specific -crystallin appears in the diploid stage, when elongated cell types are observed. One of the -crystallin bands (pH 5.7) disappears during aging in higher passage numbers of the diploid stage B. A weak band in the -crystallin region (pH 6.4), which is present in all stages, becomes very intensive in aneuploid cells of stage D, which exhibit a fibroblast-like morphology. 
4291676|Twenty-eight lymphocytoid cell lines were established within 6 months from the peripheral blood of a single healthy donor. Establishment seemed independent of feeding regimens. Establishment occurred if cultures in 100-ml glass bottles (surface area of
4292513|Desirable size reduction in African violets may be achieved through anther culture, which results in haploid plants. Three anther-derived African violet, Saintpaulia ionantha Wendl., plants were about two-thirds the size of the parent plant after 2 yr. These haploids arose from the same anther after 6 wk in vitro. They all appeared identical, were slow growing in soil, and flowered after 18 months. The leaves showed a characteristic cupping when young but straightened out as they matured. After 2 yr in soil, chromosome counts varied among N = 13, 14, and 15 in the anther-derived plants.
4292750|An undefined, serum-free medium was developed for use with fish cell cultures. Lactalbumin hydrolyzate, trypticase-soy broth, Bacto-peptone, dextrose, yeastolate, and polyvinylpyrrolidone were initially combined in 100 ml of distilled H
4292249| We have shown previously that hemoglobin greatly stimulates chick embryo cell proliferation in Eagle's minimal essential medium supplemented with horse serum. In the present study we compared the effects of horse serum plus 10 M hemoglobin to those of fetal bovine serum on subcultures of chick embryo cells serially propagated at high cell densities. The cells became elongated in the presence of fetal bovine serum and their rate of proliferation progressively decreased, whereas they became polygonal in the presence of horse serum plus hemoglobin and proliferated well in successive cell passages. The polygonal cells obtained in the presence of horse serum plus hemoglobin rapidly elongated if cultured at low cell densities in the presence of fetal bovine serum, but, in contrast, elongated cells did not yield polygonal cells if cultured at low densities in the presence of horse serum plus hemoglobin. It is possible that the polygonal and elongated cells are undifferentiated cells and differentiating myogenic cells, respectively. 
20170397|Mouse peritoneal exudate cells grown in vitro on plastic petri dishes were fixed in situ with both glutaraldehyde and osmium tetroxide by a variety of contemporary methods. The goal of the investigation was to determine which method resulted in the best ultrastructural preservation. The parameters being tested included: (a) the method of fixation, i.e. either sequential or simultaneous; (b) the buffer vehicle for fixation, i.e. cocodylate, Mellonig's phosphate, Sorenson's phosphate, or s-collidine; and (c) the temperature of fixation. Results presented indicate that simultaneous fixation is far superior to sequential methods. Samples fixed sequentially at 4 C consistently had better morphological preservation than samples fixed under similar conditions at 23 C. With the exception of s-collidine, which was totally unacceptable for in vitro in situ fixation on plastic, comparable results were noted with different buffer vehicles.
4292833|Tissue culture offers a model system with which to study the endocrine-mediated growth, differentiation, and metabolic activities of the endometrium. We have established and continue to maintain monolayer cultures of normal human endometrial epithelial cells from each phase of the menstrual cycle. At present, eight proliferative, two secretory, and two menstrual phase cultures have been established. These have been passed at least three times. One proliferative phase culture has been growing for 18 mo, and passed 10 times. Colonies of epithelioid cells as well as single cells appear in the cultures within 2 to 8 h of initial culture and maintain this appearance throughout long-term growth. The cells are periodic acid Schiff positive for carbohydrates and positive for keratin, an immunochemical marker for epithelial tissues. Studies comparing the ultrastructure of the cultures with fresh endometrial tissue revealed morphologic features common to both, including prominent nucleoli, Golgi, mitochondria-rough endoplasmic reticulum complexes, and abundant glycogen. The cells are not tumorigenic in the nude mouse and do not form colonies on soft agarose, confirming the nonneoplastic identity of the cells.
4292303|Primary cultures of rat heart endothelial cells were subjected to simulated conditions of ischemia: hypoxia and glucose deprivation for 4 and 24 hr. Cellular injury was evaluated by measuring changes in viability, total protein, cellular morphology, and leakage of cytoplasmic enzymes from the cells into the culture medium. Deprivation of oxygen and glucose for 4 or 24 hr did not lethally injure the cells as noted by no change in cell viability, morphology, and total protein when compared to controls. However, reversible or nonlethal cellular injury was produced as reflected by a significant release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) from the cells into the medium after treatment with hypoxia and glucose deprivation for 4 or 24 hr. When the cultures were deprived of glucose, but were oxygenated, cellular injury was not evident after 24 hr. Deprivation of oxygen but not glucose resulted in significant loss of LDH after 4 or 24 hr. When the cultures were allowed to recover after oxygen and glucose deprivation in complete medium containing 1000 mg glucose per l and a normal atmosphere of 20% O
20170442| Chondrocytes derived from normal human adult articular cartilage were established and maintained for over 5 months in a completely defined medium without the addition of serum or any other growth factors. At the end of 5 months, these cells were still metabolically active. The cells incorporated [H]thymidine into DNA, incorporated [S]sulfate into proteoglycans, and exhibited lysosomal enzyme activities. The S-labeled proteoglycans isolated from the culture medium had elution profiles on high pressure liquid chromatography (HPCL) similar to those observed for proteoglycans from other mammalian sources. This self-contained growth competence may reflect a need produced by the unusual avascular and alymphatic character of articular cartilage. 
4292761|The adaptation of normal human esophageal explants to organ culture for the first 33 d of in vitro growth was evaluated using histomorphology and [
20170464| A cell line was initiated from carp pituitaries. Growth was best at 30 C at seeding levels of 6  10 cells/ml. Primary cultures produced gonadotropin (GtH) in vitro and 1.45 ng of GtH was secreted by 6  10 cells in 4 h at 25 C. The cell line at present is in 57th passage. 
4292605| In vitro exposures of mass cultures and clones of human diploid fibroblastlike cells to erythromycin, in concentrations of 50 to 400 g/ml, result in increasing degrees of growth inhibition and augmented cell volume, with a shift toward larger proportions of cells of the epithelioid type and fewer of the fibroblast type. These alterations were reversed upon subculture in the absence of the antibiotic. 
4292813|Two diploid platypus cell lines, designated Oa-IF and Oa-2F, have been derived from the toe webs of two females. The development and growth characteristics of the lines are described and G-banded karyotypes presented (the first reported for the platypus). The availability of these lines will greatly facilitate chromosome and gene mapping studies of the platypus and permit the extension of comparative studies of mammalian chromosome and genome evolution to the monotremes.
4292270|Eighteen lots of fetal bovine serum were tested for their ability to support clonal growth and 3-methylcholanthrene-induced morphological transformation of hamster embryo cells in vitro. Most of them supported cloning efficiencies of over 11%. However, cloning efficiency alone was an inadequate criterion for selecting serum for transformation studies, since no transformation was observed with some lots, even though their cloning efficiencies were over 16%. This shows the importance of pretesting serum for its ability to support morphological transformation before it is used in mammalian cell carcinogenesis tests.
4292821|Mechanisms of the inhibition of growth of mammalian cell cultures caused by mycoplasmal infection were investigated by using cell-free extracts of 14 species of mycoplasmas. In four mammalian cell lines tested, the growth of two cell lines, FM3A and MDCK, was inhibited by the extracts of arginine-utilizing mycoplasmas, whereas that of The other two cell lines, Vero and LLC-MK2, was not inhibited by extracts of either arginine- or glucose-utilizing mycoplasmas. These results suggest that there are two types of cell cultures, one susceptible and the other insusceptible to arginine-utilizing mycoplasmas. In a series of experiments using FM3A cells, it was found that the growth inhibition caused by the extracts of arginine-utilizing mycoplasmas was due to removal of arginine from the medium by the action of arginine deiminase present in the extracts and that none of the metabolic products of arginine had any effect on the growth. A highly positive correlation (r = 0.96, P< 0.01) was observed between the activity of arginine deiminase and the growth-inhibiting activity of extracts of arginine-utilizing mycoplasmas.
4292737|Factors required as supplements to basal tissue culture medium for the multiplication of cells of the cloned rat fibroblast line called normal rat kidney 49F (NRK-49F) were identified as epidermal growth factor, fibronectin, insulin, and retinoic acid. The requirement for fibronectin was manifested on a clean glass surface but not on the polystyrene plastic surface tested. This set of required factors differs substantially from the factor sets required by the Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) and LLC-PId pig kidney lines of epithelial cells and the baby hamster kidney 21 (BHK-21) line of fibroblasts. The serum-free medium supplemented with the four factors supported rapid growth of NRK-49F cells when the initial cell population density was about
4291973|Nystatin methyl ester (NME), the methyl ester derivative of the polyene macrolide antibiotic nystatin, is known to be effective against fungi and is now found to be relatively less toxic than the parent antibiotic nystatin (NYS) to animal cells in culture as measured by
4291767| Monolayer cultures of endocrine pancreatic cells from both fetal and postnatal mice have been established on a chemically defined medium, MPNL65/C, of high osmolality (340 mOsm). Precocious settling and attachment of fibroblastoid cells over the first 12 hr in vitro permitted the establishment, by decanting, of clusters of epithelioid cells in culture with very little fibroblastic contamination. Substituting high osmolality medium MPNL65/C at 36 hr of culture resulted in cytotoxic changes in contaminating fibroblasts within a few days; on the contrary, rapid cell outgrowth from the epithelioid clusters to form monolayers was not retarded. As determined by light microscopic observation of living and stained cultures, the pancreatic  cell was the major surviving cell species; no differentiated exocrine cells were detected; the question of other surviving endocrine cell types (-1, -2 cells) was not resolved. That the cultured  cells were endocrinologically competent was demonstrated by their synthesis and secretion of insulin. However, the levels of insulin secretion declined with increasing time in culture, and disruption of the monolayer due to unexplained causes was seen between the 3rd and 4th weeks in vitro. The murine monolayer cultures were unresponsive to glucose stimulation of insulin secretion, and in this way differed from primary pancreatic cell cultures of other mammalian species described by others. 
4292217|Interferon, produced by rabbit heart cells grown in a serum-free medium, failed to protect rabbit heart serum-free cells, but protected rabbit heart serum-containing-medium cells against vaccinia and vesicular stomatitis virus. Interferon produced in serum-free cells had a greater species specificity than that produced in serum-containing media. The difference in activity was shown to be due to lack of adsorption by serum-free-medium cells.
4292145|Long-term (48-hr) incubations of either the fibroblast strain WI-38 or its SV40-transformed counterpart, WI-38-VA13-2RA, in growth medium containing 1  M. prostaglandin E
4292094|A cytological follow-up was performed on long-term cultures of 53 metastatic pleural effusions and 34 cases of mesothelial hyperplasia. Cells were grown in Leighton tubes with up to 11 changes of cover slip in the same tube. Cell morphology and arrangement was followed for up to 1 year. Morphological criteria are of no use in recognizing malignant cells with any degree of certainty. As to cell distribution, several types of heaping up are observed both in benign and malignant pleural effusions. In malignant cases, patches of cells in an epithelial-like arrangement are seen heaping up from their substrate. They can be recovered from the used medium by cytocentrifugation. Such behavior may explain the numerous unsuccessful attempts to establish epithelial cell lines, as the clusters of epithelial cells are progressively lost in the supernates.
4292664|Two Fischer 344 rat hepatoma cell strains, JM1 and JM2, have been isolated from a primary hepatocellular carcinoma. Primary tumor formation was induced in a two-thirds partially hepatectomized rat by a single low dose (70 mg/kg of diethylnitrosamine followed by chronic phenobarbital administration (0.1 g/100 ml drinking water). The primary tumors were passed three times by subcutaneous implantation of tumor fragments into the inguinal region of syngeneic recipients. The fourth pass was by injection of tumor cells directly into the livers of recipient rats. Several weeks later, the tumor-containing rat livers were subjected to collagenase perfusion. Two cell lines emerged from tissue culture of the cells isolated by perfusion. Each cell line was cloned by serial dilution. Cells JM1 and JM2 were tumorigenic when injected into syngeneic rats. The tumors, which arose from injected cell strains, exhibited several characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma. Morphology was examined by light and electron microscopy. Histochemical studies of JM1 and JM2 cells grown in vitro and in vivo were done. The levels of tyrosine aminotransferase and three microsomal enzymes of importance to drug and carcinogen metabolism were investigated. To our knowledge, this is the first report of cell strains derived from an initiation promotion protocol in rats.
4292512|Various conditions for tissue culture of collagenase-isolated mouse pancreatic islets were studied for their effects on the glucagon production of the cultured specimens. Culture media containing heat-treated bovine calf serum degraded
4291849|The various ways in which an immune response to tumor-specific transplantation antigens can modify the intrinsic proliferative and infiltrative capacities of tumor cells are described.
20170343|Bud differentiation from haploid anther callus of geranium was achieved on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 0.5 mg per 1 NAA and 2.5 mg per 1 kinetin. At concentrations higher than 5 mg per 1 kinetin, malformation and tissue senescence were evident.
20170440| [I]Insulin (porcine) binding to an epithelial cell line established from a Chinese hamster kidney,
4292642|Human T lymphoid cell lines (MOLT-4f, MOLT-3, HSB-2, CEM) and human B lymphoid cell lines (BJAB, RAJI, WIL-2) were grown longterm (up to 8 months) in serum-free medium. This medium consisted of Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium (IMDM), supplemented with bovine serum albumin (BSA) and transferrin (TF). This serum-free medium containing albumin and transferrin is designated AT-IMDM. Lipids were not essential. Cell viability remained high, greater than 80%, in the serum-free medium and the cells maintained their distinctive characteristics. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) production capacity was maintained by the human T lymphoid cell lines JURKAT-77 and MO in short term culture. This simple medium composed of relatively inexpensive and readily available components should be useful for studies of lymphoid cell growth and differentiation and lymphoid cell products.
4291831|Two theories have been advanced to explain the origin of adipocytes and both have experimental evidence in support. One theory proposed that adipocytes are specialized differentiated cells with specific lipid storage functions. The other held that they are unspecialized anlage cells which have the potential to store lipids depending on conditions. In an attempt to examine the little understood roles which these cells play in obesity and other abnormalities of lipid metabolism, disaggregated human adipocytes from infants and young children, free of stromal contamination, have been successfully grown in culture. The details of the techniques used, and some peculiar morphological characteristics of these cells in culture, are described.
4292323| Routine in vitro cultivation of human epithelial cells derived from foreskin and free of contaminating fibroblasts has been achieved without the addition of conditioned medium or extrinsic factors. Epithelial cell populations could be serially subpassaged and exhibited modulating responses at PDL5 to culture conditions as the cells passed from phase 1 through phase 2 of their life span. The cell population in early phase 2 gave rise to tissue sheets that exhibited characteristics typical of human foreskin epidermis including the formation of distinct cellular layers, viz. strata basalis, spinosum, granulosum and corneum. Typical keratohyaline granules were not observed in the epithelial cells although a distinct cornified layer was evident. Ultrastructurally, desmosomes and tonofilaments were readily apparent. Thus, the procedure detailed in this study will produce highly differentiated fibroblast-free epidermal sheets reaching several centimeters in size and which can be removed from the substratum as a single sheet of organized epidermis. The epithelial cells could be cultured through 20  3 PDL, whereas fibroblast cultures derived from foreskin cultures exhibited 40  5 PDL and mixed cell cultures of foreskin were carried through 43  5 PDL. 
4291976|Explants from neural tube and spinal cord of chick embryos at developmental stages 8 through 36 were cultured on collagen-coated cover glasses for 21 days. The cultures of neural tube at stages 10 to 14 contained many neuronal precursor cells which gave rise to mature neurons. This was verified by cumulative labeling of cultures with tritiated thymidine. Explants from spinal cords of stages 26 and 27 contained fewer precursor cells, and at stage 36, only 7% of mature neurons were labeled. Regardless of the stage of development at which explants were made (stages 8 through 36), all cultures had a similar appearance after 21 days, indicating that cells from explants taken from earlier developmental stages (before neurons were formed) "caught up" with the explants from later developmental stages, which already had formed neurons at the time of explantation.
4292308|The lipids of human umbilical vein endothelial cells, calf aortic endothelial cells and foreskin fibroblasts have been compared. Cell cultures were established, and, upon confluency, the lipids were extracted and analyzed with respect to total lipid content, classes of lipids and total lipid fatty acid composition. The total quantity of lipid per milligram protein found in both human umbilical vein endothelium and calf aorta endothelium was similar to that found in fibroblasts grown in similar medium. Both types of endothelium contained the same major neutral lipid classes as fibroblasts, although they contained more phospholipid than did fibroblasts. The fatty acid composition of the three cells examined was influenced by cell type as well as the type of serum in the culture medium.
4292246| Two human melanoma lines, RPMI-7931 and HS-294, respond to mitogenic stimulation by PHA. A dose-response curve for these lines can be demonstrated with maximal stimulation at 16 and 32 g per ml and inhibition at 75 to 250 g per ml PHA. The mitogenic effects of PHA were inhibited by N-acetyl-D-galactosamine. Neuroblastoma cells also exhibit a similar but less important dose-response to PHA. These data indicate that human melanomas and neuroblastomas may have PHA receptors or mechanisms for mitogenic stimulation which are analogous to those observed with normal lymphocytes. 
4292861|We have carried out systematic studies to optimize and standardize methodology to isolate and culture the adult rat ventricular cardiac muscle cell. Four hearts were perfused simultaneously with a calcium-free medium containing collagenase. The ventricular tissue was then minced and further digested to liberate individual cells. Approximately 16 million rod-shaped muscle cells were obtained. The plating efficiency has been greatly improved by culturing the cells in a conditioned medium prepared from a rabbit corneal cell line. This medium also contained added fetal bovine serum, essential and nonessential amino acids, vitamins, insulin, transferrin, and 25 trace minerals. The culture flasks were precoated with rat-tail collagen. Fibroblast contamination was virtually eliminated by including cytosine arabinoside in the medium during the first 7 d of culture. After this time the cells could be cultured in the absence of serum in a chemically defined medium composed of MEM, vitamins, nonessential amino acids, and trace minerals. They continued to contract spontaneously and do well in this medium for at least 3 d thereafter. This improved methodology resulted in a reproducible culture system with improved plating efficiency. It provided a new and unique system to study the structure and function of the adult mammalian ventricular cardiac muscle cell.
4292140|Treatment of mouse mammary epithelial cells (MMEC) with various enzymes used for dispersing and transferring cells results in extensive digestion of materials on the cell surfaces. MMEC biosynthetically labeled with
4292858|Primary cultures of beating myocardial cells were obtained from 5-d-old offspring of trained (T) and untrained (UT), pregnant, Sprague-Dawley rats. The myocardial cells from the T and UT groups were evaluated for their beating responses to three cardioactive drugs: verapamil (V), isoproterenol (ISO), and propranolol (PRO). The myocardial cell cultures from the UT group showed complete loss of beating when the calcium (Ca
4291853|Two tissue culture incubation systems are described in which immune responses to cell surface antigens have been demonstrated. In the one-way "mixed lymphocyte interaction" system, a specific stimulation of thymidine uptake was induced by a particulate membrane antigen fraction, the microsomal lipoproteins (MLP), when low levels (
20170314| By measuring the electro-osmotic flow velocity of buffer through a glass capillary, on the inner surface of which cells have been grown, the -potential of these cells can be determined without the changes in -potential, viability and morphology caused by the chemical, enzymatic or mechanical pretreatment hitherto necessary for cell dispersion in the microelectrophoretic method. Cells grown in a monolayer inside the capillaries were: BGM, HEP-2, and RPMI 1846 (the last one also could be grown in suspension). 
20170555| Protein content, dry weight, cell viability, and the ability of cultures to be subcultured were measured at 4-d intervals beginning on Day 14 when cell division and expansion had stopped. Measurements were continued until the cultures had died. The protein content of senescing cultures decreased from approximately 780 to 500 g between Days 14 and 18, then remained relatively constant until Day 26 whereupon it declined to approximately 350 g/culture. The decline in protein content of parent cultures did not correlate well with cell viability and their ability to be subcultured at some ages. In older cultures it was estimated that less than 2000 of the approximately 261  10 cells appeared to be capable of dividing when they were subcultured. 
4292351| A cell line was established from the ovaries of a healthy, juvenile channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus. These cells, designated CCO, have been passed 130 times during 3 years. The cells grow well in Eagle's MEM-10 at a temperature of 30 C. Species of origin of the cells was confirmed by a cytotoxic dye exclusion test. The cells were found to be free of bacterial and fungal contamination. A study of chromosome preparations indicated that the karyotype is still in a state of flux. The CCO line replicated channel catfish virus but was refractory to 12 other viruses, 4 from fish, 1 from birds, and 7 from mammals. 
20170432| Neural tubes of mouse embryos at Theiler Stages 14, 15, and 16 were grown in cultures for 21 d with 0.5 Ci/ml tritiated thymidine or cold growth medium. It was found that 50 to 60% of the neurons formed in the outgrowth zone were labeled, indicating that they formed from precursor cells that proliferated in the cultures. The unlabeled neurons must have formed from cells that were already postmitotic when the cultures were started. By comparing the total number of neurons per neuromere formed in vivo and in vitro, it seems that the postmitotic precursor cells survive better in cultures and only a small percentage of proliferative precursor cells in cultures enter the postmitotic stage and form neurons. 
20170499| Defined culture conditions for routine clonal growth of normal human adult bronchial epithelial cells have been developed. Serum and feeder cell requirements were abrogated by: (a) optimizing the calcium concentration in nutrient medium, MCDB 151; (b) supplementing with purified factors (epidermal growth factor, 5 ng/ml; insulin, 5 g/ml; transferrin, 10 g/ml; hydrocortisone, phosphoethanolamine and ethanolamine, each at 5  10 M; and trace elements); and (c) coating the surface of the culture dish with a mixture of fibronectin, collagen, and bovine serum albumin. Endothelial cell growth supplement (100 g/ml) and retinoic acid (3  10 M) further enhanced growth, whereas cholera toxin was nonmitogenic and serum supplementation (&gt; 2%) markedly reduced the growth rate. Using the defined system, dissociated cultures of bronchial epithelial cells, obtained from more than 15 donors, have been subcultured at clonal densities with a colony forming efficiency of 3 to 4%. In addition, high density cultures have been subcultured more than five times with four to six population doublings per passage. The features of this system permit pathobiologic investigations of bronchial epithelial cells, e.g., aging, differentiation, and carcinogenesis using conditions that isolate the results from the influence of serum, feeder cells, and other undefined factors. 
4291707|A commercially available anaerobic generator and incubation system that develops a low oxidation-reduction potential was used for the assay of cell cultures for mycoplasmal contamination. Mycoplasma broth and agar media supplemented with dextrose, yeast extract, and horse serum were used. This system supported growth of some mycoplasmas that failed to grow in incubators with 5% CO
4292034|Autoradiographic and flow microfluorometry analyses have been applied to a study of perturbed cell kinetics in 9L rat brain tumor cells treated with dibutyryl cyclic AMP and theophylline alone and in combination in vitro. At a concentration of 1 mM each, cell growth ceased shortly after the administration of these drugs. The results indicate that cells in S and G
4291961|Effects of three adrenal corticoids on in vitro mammary differentiation were compared in neonatally estrogenized (E) and uninjected control (N) BALB/c Crgl female mice. E mice were injected with 10  g of
4292020|Tissue-culture methods can be used to test the developmental capacity of embryonic cells. In micro-mass cultures, derived from wing cells of stages 21 through 24 chick embryos, aggregates of cells form and then differentiate into cartilage nodules, as judged by the presence of an Alcian blue staining extracellular matrix. Wing cells derived from embryos as young as stage 17 can form aggregates. However, unless they are treated with db cyclic AMP and theophylline, it is not until stage 20 that these aggregates can produce cartilage in culture. In clonal cell culture, cartilage colonies are not produced by primary cell suspensions of limb cells until stage 25 when overt cartilage differentiation is occurring in vivo. It is possible to obtain clonable cartilage cells from limb cells from embryos between stages 20 and 24 if the cells are either treated with db cyclic AMP and theophylline or maintained in suspension culture for 12 to 48 hr. On the basis of these in vitro results a multiple step model for the conversion of limb mesenchyme into cartilage cells is proposed. The model involves the appearance of cells with a predisposition to form aggregates, development of the capacity to form cartilage in response to elevated levels of cyclic AMP, the appearance of receptors that translate changes in either cell shape or cell cycle parameters into elevated levels of cyclic AMP, aggregation, elevated levels of cyclic AMP, cartilage cell determination, and differentiation. This model can serve as the basis for further tests.
4292290|Plastic dishes were coated with an agarose layer. The layer was modified by covalently binding proteins to it, using the CNBr-method. Cells were seeded on the dishes and the number of attached cells was evaluated. The specificity of the attachment was demonstrated by showing that cells, carrying specific membrane-bound immunoglobulins, attached only to the corresponding anti-immunoglobulins. This indicated that the method could be used for cell sorting. The attachment of cells to proteins was influenced by the amount of bound protein, incubation time, temperature and the degree of trypsinization. Most attached cells were viable for several days and when dying they detached. Detailed morphological and cytochemical analyses of the dynamics of attachment and cytoplasmic spreading on the chemically well-defined surfaces were possible using the new method.
4291855|The effect of cortisol on the ultrastructure of normal, leukemic, and cultured human lymphocytes during a 2-hr incubation was investigated. The presence of 10
4292791|The role of choleragen (CT) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been examined in relation to the control of growth and differentiation of adult human cervical epithelial (HCE) cells derived from the ectocervix. Cervical biopsies derived from hysterectomy specimens were trypsin disaggregated and HCE cells were plated at
4292549|Supporting cells from 6- to 8-wk-old bovine calf testes were maintained in cell culture and were characterized morphologically and biochemically. Light and electron microscopy showed that the cultures consisted principally of supporting cells that were identified as epithelial cells with nucleolar vesicles. The bovine supporting cells in culture responded to follicle stimulating hormone with increased cAMP synthesis and enhanced incorporation of
4291815|Cultured adrenal tumor cells respond to adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP), cholera enterotoxin (CT), and Escherichia coli enterotoxin with increased steroidogenesis and a reversible alteration of monolayer morphology. The morphological response is not due specifically to the interaction of ACTH or CT with a membrane receptor site, because both cAMP and theophylline, which work intracellularly, also stimulated steroidogenesis and rounding of adrenal cells. The morphological alteration appears to be unrelated to stimulation of steroidogenesis or protein synthesis, inasmuch as CT in the presence of aminoglutethimide or cycloheximide still caused rounding and cAMP accumulation without increased steroid production. These results suggest that increased intracellular cAMP concentration may be related to the observed change of flattened adrenal cells to a spherical shape in monolayer cultures.
20170410|The amino acid and energy requirements of rat hepatocytes in suspension and early culture were investigated. Among a number of potential energy substrates tested, pyruvate (20 mM) was found to be most effective in stimulating hepatocytic protein synthesis. Amino acids stimulated protein synthesis both as energy substrates and as protein precursors. An amino acid mixture was designed to provide maximal inhibition of protein degradation as well as maximal stimulation of protein synthesis. In a defined medium containing amino acids at these concentrations, and supplemented with glucocorticoid hormone and insulin, hepatocytes could be maintained--on a collagen substratum--for at least a week without any significant net loss of cells or cellular protein.
4292727|The prelabeled-donor technique was used to study metabolic cooperation in the established cell lines, RTG-2, FHM, and IgH-2, which are respectively from rainbow trout, fathead minnow, and green iguana. The donors were grown with
4292906|It was observed previously that primordia of fetal rat testes when explanted in vitro in a synthetic medium at the outset of sexual differentiation differentiate seminiferous cords during the following days, but that the addition of 15% fetal bovine serum prevents this morphogenesis. In the present study, human, horse, bovine calf, and rat sera were shown to exert the same effect. Very low concentrations of human or fetal bovine serum (0.5 or 1%) were sufficient to produce the serum effect, which was only slightly reduced when the serum was heated. The serum activity was not removed by dialysis (membrane cut-off 15000), but it disappeared after treatment with trichloroacetic or perchloric acids or after trypsin digestion. Partial purification of the active factor(s) from human serum was achieved by successive gel filtration, affinity chromatography, and ion exchange chromatography. Analysis of the active fractions by electrofocusing and immunoelectrophoresis placed the activity within the  globulin group. Among a series of purified serum proteins tested,
4292173|Urogenital morphogenesis and cytodifferentiation are presented in the context of the epithelial-stromal interaction. The essential role of stroma in these processes is reviewed.
4292264| 2-Deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) and 5-thio-D-glucose (5TG) are glucose antimetabolites that are known to be selectively toxic to hypoxic cells grown as single cells or as monolayer cultures. These analogues were toxic to Chinese hamster V79 cells grown as multicell spheroids even under aerobic conditions. When spheroids, 500- to 600-m diameter, were exposed to 7.5 mM of these chemicals for 3 days, the number of clonogenic cells per spheroid dropped to 50% for 5-thio-D-glucose and 20% for 2-deoxy-D-glucose, relative to control values. Survivals were reduced to less than 1 % when the experiment was repeated in glucose-free medium. Scanning electron photomicrographs of spheroids treated with 7.5 mM of either analogue showed extensive damage to the outer cells. The cell killing observed was much more than could be predicted on the basis of the hypoxic fraction known to be present in these spheroids. The crowded tumor-like environment may make the cells vulnerable to the cytotoxic action of glucose analogues and other glycolytic inhibitors. 
4292780|The insect cell line MRRL-CH derived from embryos of the lepidopteran Manduca sexta responded rapidly, within 15 min, to 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-OH-Ec) (
4291782|Nine crude commercially available samples of pancreatic enzyme preparations were examined in an effort to establish enzyme requirements for dissociation of rat heart to single cells for culture. Disc gel electrophoresis, using purified enzymes as references, indicated the presence of at least five enzymes. The levels of these enzymes, trypsin, chymotrypsin, elastase, lipase, and amylase were quantified in the commercial samples by established enzyme assays. The crude enzyme preparations were compared for their abilities to provide good yields of viable cells from the hearts of neonatal white rats. The abilities of the cells to thrive in culture and to beat rhythmically were also used in the comparison. Commercial purified samples of the five enzymes were used singly and in various combinations in preparing cultures to establish minimal pancreatic enzyme requirements for dissociation of rat hearts. It was concluded that at least trypsin, chymotrypsin, and elastase were required to obtain viable rat heart cells in high yield. Amylase and lipase activities were shown not to be necessary for dissociation. Most commercial samples of trypsin, commonly used to dissociate heart tissue, contain trypsin, chymotrypsin, and elastase in concentrations sufficient to release heart cells in good yield with minimal damage. The destruction of cells observed with some of the commercial samples examined was not due to improper levels of trypsin, chymotrypsin, or elastase. Work is in progress to identify the destructive agent(s).
4291736| Degradation of asparagine in media containing dialyzed fetal calf serum has been shown to be the result of asparaginase, which is active even at 4C. The asparaginase activity of undialyzed fetal calf serum is only one-tenth of that found in the dialyzed serum. Glutaminase activity was also demonstrated in the medium containing dialyzed fetal calf serum. Minor changes in some other amino acids were also observed. 
20170461|A technique for avian leukocyte culture and chromosome analysis is described. The method is simple and allows karyotypic analysis by a variety of chromosome banding methods. It is applicable to a wide variety of species and may be useful in determining the genetic sex of monotypic species in captivity or for population studies of specimens in the wild.
4292814|We studied the histologic and ultrastructural features of embryonic chick cartilage after the cartilage had been incubated in serum-free medium that contained hormones and growth factors known to stimulate in vitro cartilage growth. Pelvic cartilages from 9 d chick embryos were incubated in
20170272| A simple method is described for primary culture and for maintenance of hormone-producing cells from normal human placenta. A consistent yield of cells was obtained and an average survival of 3 to 4 months in culture using 1 mm explants from the most vascular area of the placentas. These explants were placed in a variety of culture media in 30 ml flasks and incubated at 37C in an atmosphere of 5% CO and 95% air. The best yields in terms of cell growth were observed with Eagle's MEM (minimum essential medium) with supplements of horse serum and fetal calf serum or human cord serum. (Ham's F-10 with supplement of horse serum and fetal calf serum supports growth for the longest period and media containing human cord serum had the best yield of steroids.) 
4292042|Normal cultures of epithelial appearance were initiated by trypsinization of a surgically resected, histologically normal branchial cyst. Cellular morphology was consistent with derivation from the stratified squamous epithelium of the cyst or from vascular endothelium, although electron micrographs of the cultured cells failed to show any junctional complexes. Infection with SV40 produced transformants which were also epithelioid in appearance. These grew vigorously for 22 to 50 population doublings (about 23 to 32 subcultures, depending upon regimen) and then became quiescent. During this evolution, virus was detectable at all stages by both direct isolation (cell extracts) and cocultivation with permissive cells. In two sublines in which selection for rapidly growing cell types occurred, virus was detected only by cocultivation. The work confirms that of others in the finding that normal human epithelial cells are susceptible to transformation by oncogenic viruses, but are apparently less responsive than are fibroblasts to such transforming agents. It also suggests that subcultivation techniques that maintain the populations of transformed cells at low density tend to select against cell strains that are continuous producers of infectious virus.
4292129|A modified continuous-flow culture system (CFCS) was developed to maintain large explants of periodontium from adult mouse in organ culture. The culture medium was stored in a reservoir outside of the incubator, pumped via polyvinyl tubing into small glass culture chambers that were placed in the oxygenator and then collected in a waste flask. Medium was analyzed for pO
4292150|The time course of juvenile hormone (JH) metabolism is examined in cultures of Periplaneta americana fat body and ovaries in medium containing Manduca sexta carrier protein or cockroach hemolymph. In the absence of M. sexta carrier protein or cockroach hemolymph, both tissues extensively catabolize exogenous
4291729|A liposarcoma cell line (RPMI M7021) has been established. A description, based on light and electron microscopy and karyotypic analysis, is presented.
4292868|We tested the effect of Bisantrene (BS) and Theprubicin (THP-ADR) on cell growth of a human pancreatic carcinoma cell line (MIA PaCa-2). After 1 h exposure ID
20170384| Whole pancreases from fetal rats of 13 days and 18 days gestation were explanted onto rayon grids and grown in organ culture. Cultures were fixed in Bouin's fluid, sectioned and stained with the fluorescent antibody techniques for glucagon and insulin, aldehyde fuchsin for B cells, pseudoisocyanin for D cells and a silver technique for the fourth cell type. The 13-day explants were fixed after 10 days in culture. A, B and D and the fourth cell type were seen, indicating that precursors of all four endocrine cell types must be present in the fetal pancreas shortly after the formation of the pancreatic bud (11 days). Further, the presence of these four cell types in the walls of tubules in these cultures indicates the tubules as the site of origin of all the endocrine tissue. The 18-day explants were collected every other day of culture from 2 to 30 days in a longterm experiment. A number of large islets with well granulated B cells was still present after 30 days of culture. The relative abundance of of cell types at different stages was estimated as follows: 18-day fetal controls, A &gt; B = 4 &gt; D; after 2 to 10 days in culture, B &gt; A  4 &gt; D; after 18 to 30 days in culture, B &gt; D &gt; A &gt; 4. 
4291615| Corpora lutea in submerged organ cultures of mouse ovary retained viability when incubated at 24C. At harvest, whole corpora lutea appeared uniformly viable, and mitotic figures were occasionally seen among the luteal cells. At 24C, the observed excellent cytological condition of the corpora lutea was in contrast to the necrosis seen when the expiants were incubated at 34C. 
20170542|Propagable cell cultures derived from human endometrial tissue were determined to contain cells predominantly of stromal cell origin based on their morphologic resemblance to endometrial stromal cells. These features included nexi, solitary cilia, and predecidual cytology. In addition to morphology the cell cultures retained a normal karyotype and responded to steroid hormones as evidenced by cellular aggregation. The stromal cells were evaluated for a variety of characteristics associated with transformed cells and seemed to be biologically normal without neoplastic phenotypes. Growth potential of the stromal cell cultures was also characterized in normal maintenance medium, in nutritionally depleted medium with reduced levels of calcium or serum, and in medium with increased levels of serum. The prolonged survival of the stromal cells in vitro coupled with the retention of in vivo characteristics and an absence of neoplastic phenotype provides a human cell system that is amenable to a variety of long-term experimental analyses.
4292559|Esophagus from adult male CDF rats was cultured for a period of 28 d in CMRL-1066 medium supplemented with pyruvic acid, HEPES buffer,
4292485|BALB/c 3T3 cells cultured as aggregates were examined by two independent techniques to determine whether or not cells accumulated at a specific point in the cell cycle, and if so to determine the point at which they accumulate. Replating cells onto dishes followed by pulse labeling with [
4291999|There was no significant difference in the mitotic indices of the cultures maintained at different CO
20170327|Ecdysterone decreased cellular growth and the incorporation of uridine into RNA following 4 days of hormone exposure. This hormone did not affect uridine incorporation following short-term exposure up to 25 hours. Juvenile hormone and farnesol both significantly decreased uridine uptake and incorporation into RNA; however, uridine uptake was inhibited to a greater extent than uridine incorporation. Cyclic AMP increased the incorporation of uridine into RNA but had no demonstrable effect on the uptake process. This stimulation was not the result of cAMP degradation products. Cyclic AMP and ecdysterone together produced a significant increase in uridine incorporation into RNA. These studies demonstrate the potential utilization of insect cell lines for studying the mode of action of insect developmental hormones.
4292568|We report the observation of a decrease in media pH caused by isolated protoplasts after alkalinization of the culture medium. Additions of other cations or anions did not produce a similar response. Dinitrophenol immediately terminated the response. The acidification response was larger in suspensions that were cultured in auxins. The responses of protoplasts to changes in external pH may provide a means for assessing viability of nondividing protoplasts.
4292487|The purpose of this study was to determine whether culturing hyperplastic mammary nodules in hormone-free medium would enhance their oncogenicity following subsequent transplantation into mammary fat pads. The underlying hypothesis is that the proliferation of transformed cells within the nodules is inhibited by hormone-dependent normal cells also present in the nodules. Accordingly, both primary hyperplastic nodules and tissues from a hyperplastic outgrowth of a primary nodule were maintained as organ cultures for varying periods in hormone-free Medium 199. The results show that whereas noncultured nodules developed mammary tumors at an incidence of only 15%, those passaged in organ culture gave rise to mammary tumors at an incidence of 40 to 43%. This threefold enhancement in the oncogenicity of mammary nodules is interpreted to be due, at least in part, to a reduction in the normal mammary cell content of nodules. Consistent with this interpretation is the observation that cultured nodules gave rise to mammary outgrowths that were predominantly hyperplastic, whereas noncultured nodules generated outgrowths with varying proportions of hyperplastic and normal ductal mammary tissue.
4292474|Ficoll-Paque isopycnic centrifugation was used as a preparative procedure for amniotic fluid (AF) cells prior to tissue culture. This technique serves to reduce contaminating erythrocytes and also enhances cell growth or mitotic indices. The technique described in this report yields three subfractions designated as a turbid interphase layer (F-2), a middle cell layer (F-3), and a bottom pellet (F-4). The middle cell layer (F-3) demonstrated better cell growth and higher mitotic index than any of the other fractions or control unfractionated amniotic fluid cells. The use of Ficoll-Paque isopycnic preparative centrifugation of amniotic fluid cells is a valuable adjunct in cell culture for cytogenetic analysis. This may be especially true when amniotic fluid contains large numbers of erythrocytes.
4292551|Human colonic epithelial cells from three classes of benign tumors have been reproducibly cultured free of fibroblasts for 8 wk using a supplemented Medium 199 (M 199S). The cultured colonic cells were identified as epithelial by the presence of junctional complexes (tight junctions, gap junctions, and desmosomes), a brush border on the apical surface, keratin fibrils, and by both a close-packed columnar or cuboidal morphology and the capability to transport water and ions to form hemicysts. Colony formation was initiated by groups of epithelial cells, not by single cells, and was inhibited by cocultivation with either lethally irradiated 3T3 cells or human diploid fibroblasts. Enhancement of epithelial colony formation was observed following culture on nonadherent, "floating" substrates compared with substrates attached directly to the bottom of the culture dish. Replication of epithelial cells in M 199S from the class of benign colonic tumors least prone to malignancy, the tubular, was significantly enhanced by epidermal growth factor (EGF). In contrast, EGF did not stimulate the growth of cells in M 199S from the other classes of benign tumors, the villotubular and the villous, which exhibit more malignant potential. These data imply that premalignant colonic epithelial cells lose responsiveness to growth modulation by EGF as they progress toward frank carcinoma.
4292261|Cell transformation induced by murine sarcoma virus (MSV-M) is significantly inhibited (80-90%) in a clonal line of normal rat kidney (NRK) cells when they are infected with rat cell passaged adenovirus 12 (R-Ad12). No inhibition is seen when R-Ad12 is added simultaneously with, or 1 1/2 or 24 hr after, MSV-M infection, suggesting that inhibition occurs most probably intracellularly. There is also a direct correlation between the extent of focus formation and the concentration of R-Ad12 used. Concentrations of R-Ad12 used to inhibit cell transformation do not affect cell growth. Significant inhibition in foci (90-100%) is also evident in the first two subcultures of R-Ad12 infected NRK cells. The mechanism of the inhibition is not yet known.
4292321|Techniques have been developed for making microforks from the eye ends of sewing needles. Details are presented for constructing, sterilizing and manipulating these durable, simply designed transfer tools.
4292775|To identify markers for fusion and transformation studies, cell suspension cultures of four members of the Daucus genus were examined to determine differences in culture conditions, isoenzyme patterns, and plastid DNA. The four were: D. carota subsp. sativus cv. Danvers, D. carota subsp. gummifer, D. capillifolius, and D. pusillus. Under appropriate conditions, all four grew well as liquid cell suspension cultures and regenerated from protoplasts into plants. Enzyme activities of homoserine dehydrogenase (HSDH) and alcohol dehydrogenase from cell culture extracts were analyzed on eleetrophoretic gels. Although only one form of HSDH was present in each Daucus line, the rate of migration of HSDH from cv. Danvers was different from that of the other cell lines. Multiple isoenzymic forms of ADH were present in each Daucus cultivar. Comparison of endonuclease restriction fragment patterns from plastid DNAs digested by BamHI revealed only small differences between plastid DNAs of cv. Danvers and subsp. gummifer, whereas large differences were observed between cv. Danvers and D. pusillus plastid DNA patterns. No differences were found between cv. Danvers and D. capillifolius plastid DNA patterns when examined using eight different restriction enzymes. The data indicate that specific isoenzyme and organeile DNA restriction fragment patterns will be useful markers for precise identification of genomes of different Daucus species in somatic hybridization experiments.
4291637|Lysolecithin has been used to induce cell fusion between two metabolically deficient mouse fibroblast lines,
20170436| The growth of Madin Darby canine kidney cells on microcarriers was studied at different cell seeding densities. Maximum growth was attained when a cell-to-bead ratio of 7:1 was used. Under these conditions an initial concentration of above 3  10 cells/ml resulted in a yield of over 2  10 cells/ml in 2 d. The amino acid utilization of cells from Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium was studied under the above conditions. Eight amino acids (arg, cys, gln, ile, leu, met, ser, and val) showed rapid and near complete depletion from the medium. Five amino acids (his, lys, phe, thr, and tyr) showed limited depletion. Two amino acids (ala and gly) were released into the medium by the cells. 
4292276|In cell cultures derived from anterior pituitary glands of rats, enzyme activities of cell homogenates and hormone (GH, PRL, LH, and FSH) content of the culture media were measured. Sex differences in enzyme activities representing major metabolic pathways (citrate cycles, pentose cycles, and glycolysis) were demonstrated both in freshly dispersed cells and in 8-day-old cultures; in cultures of both sexes enzyme activities increased during cultivation. In cultures derived from female rats, cell protein doubled by the 12th day and remained constant for up to the 24th day in culture, whereas enzyme activities showed changes suggesting that cell metabolism shifted to anaerobic glycolysis during cultivation. In the culture media the presence of four pituitary hormones was demonstrated for as long as 3 weeks of cultivation with variable secretion dynamics; the release of gonadotropic hormones diminished gradually whereas that of GH remained constant and PRL levels increased with time. These results indicate that under strictly defined culture conditions pituitary cells may function in spite of profound metabolic changes.
4291681|Seven epithelial cell lines derived from kidney and 20 fibroblastic cell lines deriving from lung, heart, muscle, kidney, and skin tissue of five rhesus and six African green monkey fetuses have been established and propagated in culture. Four epithelial and two fibroblastic cell lines resumed cell multiplication after a period of growth decline, and these lines developed cytogenetic changes and growth characteristics of cells capable of unlimited growth in vitro. Sixteen of the fibroblastic lines derived from lung, heart, muscle, or skin were characterized by a finite life consisting of a period of active cell multiplication, followed by growth decline, senescence, and cell death. Fibroblasts derived from lung appeared to have the greatest growth potential in terms of total population doublings, and fibroblastic lines from rhesus monkeys were usually capable of more doublings than similar lines from African green monkeys. All fibroblastic lines were predominantly diploid during active growth from passages 1 to 30, but several lines developed karyological changes preceding or during growth decline and senescence. All lines tested were found sensitive to a number of human viruses. All tests on these cells for microbial agents and for tumorigenicity have been negative, and they have been preserved by freezing without loss of properties. These cell lines may be useful as standardized substrates in studies requiring nonhuman primate cells.
4292414|A human uveal melanocyte-derived cell line (UlI) is described. The cell line has a doubling time of 27.2 hr, a plating efficiency on plastic surfaces of 10%, and a cloning efficiency in soft agar of <0.1%. UlI displays marked chromosomal aneuploidy and sensitivity to ultraviolet light. Biochemical studies indicate the presence of tyrosinase, which is stimulated by several compounds, including theophylline, progesterone, and nerve growth factor.
20170418|DEAE cellulose anion exchangers having small ion exchange capacity (0.5 to 2.0 meq/g dry material) were tested for cell attachment kinetics and capacity to support growth anchorage-dependent cells. It was found that cells from established cell lines (BHK and MDCK) can grow to confluency on DEAE cellulose particles having exchange capacity of 1 and 2 meq/g dry materials, DE-52 and DE-53, respectively. On the other hand, chick embryo fibroblasts (primary cells) can grow only on DE-53 particles.
4291645|It has been demonstrated that the heterophile antigen present on the surface of mouse cells can be visualized by means of the indirect fluorescent antibody technique. Depending on the fixatives used, the antigen could be demonstrated on the cell surface or intracellularly. Treating the cells with proteolytic enzymes did not affect either the reactivity of the antigen or its demonstration by the indirect fluorescent antibody technique. The pattern of immunofluorescence on the surface of clone 929-L cells was different from that on the surface of their variant, L
20170423| The choline analog, N-isopropylethanolamine (IPE), inhibits the growth of both Chinese hamster ovary CHO-K and mouse L-M cells by two kinetically distinct mechanisms; I, a reversible and concentration-dependent reduction in the logarithmic population doubling rate and the saturation density of cultures by low IPE levels in the media; and II, an irreversible and time-dependent killing of cells by high IPE concentrations. Both types of inhibition are independent of media depletion, cell density, or the time of treatment after cell plating; however, the actual IPE concentration that is necessary to elicit Type I or Type II inhibition in each cell line is dependent on the choline level of the media. Ethanolamine, methionine, or betaine have no effect on IPE-induced growth inhibition. From a mutagenized population of CHO-K cells we isolated variant cell strains that are resistant to the lethal effect of IPE. It was determined that with both the wild type and variant strains the sensitivity of cells to growth inhibition by IPE (both Type I and Type II) was proportional to the degree by which choline uptake was inhibited by the analog. Retinoic acid, which inhibits the growth of some fibroblast and epithelial cell lines by a concentration-dependent reduction in population doubling rate and saturation density, behaves synergistically with IPE to inhibit the growth of CHO-K cells. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP, on the other hand, causes only an additive increase in the growth inhibition of CHO-K populations that also are treated with IPE. 
4292023|SV3T3 cells, originally responsive to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and displaying density-dependent inhibition of growth, lose responsiveness to the growth factor after several passages and then proliferate without restriction, but continue to display EGF receptor sites at the cell surface. Proliferation of primary fetal rat hepatocytes is not stimulated by EGF, but cells bind it to an extent comparable to that of responsive 3T3 cells. Therefore presence of EGF receptors does not imply that cells are responsive to the growth factor. The relevance of some growth-factor-induced events for DNA synthesis initiation is discussed. In various primary and secondary cell cultures,
4292011|Experimental tumors developed in white Pekin ducks after intramuscular implantation of 20-methylcholanthrene. Cells derived from the primary tumor were adapted successfully to grow in vitro and have growth characteristics similar to that of established cell lines of mammalian origin. The cell density rises rapidly and the doubling time is approximately 19 hr. The duck cells have been cultured successfully for at least 80 passages in vitro. The continuously cultured cells have the characteristic chromosome pattern of duck, and the DNA of the duck cell line hybridized with duck liver DNA. We believe we have established a continuous cell line of avian origin. Electron-microscopic examinations of the tumor cells and RNA-directed DNA polymerase of the cell-free supernate show no evidence of endogenous virus production.
4292815|We report here the spontaneous transformation of a normal diploid bovine fetal aortic endothelial cell line. This cell line showed a period of rapid proliferation, followed by a period of declining proliferative activity, as judged by both a decline in the number of population doublings achieved from seeding to subcultivation and a decrease in the fraction of cells incorporating [
20170318| Amino acid concentrations are studied in the extracellular media of ten series of human fibroblast and liver cell monolayer cultures. These two cell types consume and produce ostensively the same amino acids. Among the nonessential amino acids, the most significant variations involve serine and aspartate which are decreased; -alanine, glutamate, ornithine and proline are, on the contrary, increased. Among the essential amino acids, leucine, isoleucine and glutamine are preferentially decreased. The variations of some amino acids are correlated with the cell density. The interrelations which may exist between the variations of these different amino acids are discussed. Furthermore, the glycolytic activity of the cells studied is very high: 85% of glucose consumed is found in the form of lactate. 
4291598|Five separate primary variant cell populations were isolated from the Jensen sarcoma by culturing in media devoid of arginine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, and tryptophan and compared to a variant of asparagine metabolism. The tryptophan variant, however, may result from growth due to serum-adsorbed tryptophan. When challenged with media devoid of a second amino acid, each variant responded differently. Transplantation of the primary variant cells into animals resulted in tumors, but apparent loss of transplantability occurred in some populations derived from the secondary variant cells. It appears that each variant represents a separate cell population.
4292454| Mammalian cell-to-cell channels show polar permselective properties discriminating against negatively charged 14 -wide molecules and are more restrictive than the channels of insect cell junctions. The channel permeability is modulated by conditions affecting the concentration of intracellular ionic Ca: elevation of the external Ca load (B cells), treatment of cell cultures with Ca-transporting ionophore (in the presence of external Ca, but not in its absence), treatment with a combination of cyanide and iodoacetate, or with high levels of carbon dioxide, all cause depression of channel permeability. Treatment of cell cultures with cyclic AMP or its more permeable derivative, dibutyryl cyclic AMP, produces increase in permeability. A similar channel up regulation is observed upon elevation of the endogenous level of cyclic AMP by serum deprivation or lowering of cell density. 
4291661|The development of a synthetic medium that supports growth and differentiation of insect embryonic tissues afforded the possibility of studying the interactions between nerve and other cell types in long term cultures. The mechanical dissociation of embryonic nerve tissues results in survival of nerve cells but not of glial cells. The dissociated glial-free neurons produce a dense fibrillar network in the presence, but not in the absence, of foregut explants or other tissues from same donors. Nerve fiber bundles outgrowing from dissociated neurons enter foregut segments and establish synaptic connections with muscle cells. Foregut explants undergo differentiation and become contractile in long term cultures when innervated by dissociated nerve cells. The progressive deterioration of similar foregut tissues cultured alone contrasts with the excellent condition of innervated explants and suggests that this is due to trophic factors released by nerve fibers. The same in vitro systems provided the opportunity of studying the interaction between nerve fibers produced by the autonomie ingluvial ganglion, which adheres to the surface of the alimentary tract, and muscle cells. Multiple esophagus explants from cockroach embryos become interconnected by fibers emerging from ingluvial ganglia, when the explants are combined in vitro at short distance from each other. Muscle cells migrating from the esophagi line up on axons branching out in the medium, or form contractile ribbons which, in turn, establish connections with nerve fibers. The thigmotropism of muscle cells and strong affinity for nerve fibers reveal a new aspect of muscle cells-to-fibers interaction, amenable to further analysis in vitro.
20170313|A procedure is described for the isolation and culture of large numbers of follicle cell-free Xenopus laevis oocytes in all stages of development. The isolation procedure involves the incubation of pieces of ovary in a calcium-free solution OR2 containing 0.2% collagenase. A defined nutrient medium for the maintenance of the oocytes in vitro is presented. It is shown that this medium, referred to as DNOM, can maintain certain morphological and functional characteristics of oocytes for periods up to 3 weeks.
4292289|A cell line and subline with epithelial characteristics were established from mouse mammary hyperplastic alveolar nodules (HAN). The cells do not grow in suspension cultures in vitro or form tumors in vivo. The cells do produce significant amounts of C-type and A-type virus and low amounts of plasminogen activator.
4291800|The growth of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells in suspension culture utilizing a novel pneumatically operated stirring rod is compared with that using a standard magnetic stirrer. No differences were detected between the two systems. The advantages of the pneumatic system are discussed.
4291758|The adaptation of the rhesus monkey kidney cell line
4291847|Transformation by the papo va viruses, SV40 and polyoma, is reviewed briefly, including factors that affect the frequency of transformation. Virus markers useful in the determination of the etiology of virus-free tumors are described, including viral DNA, viral mRNA, virus-induced antigens, and the rescue of infectious virus. Finally, the evidence that viral genes are involved in the maintenance of transformation is presented.
20170452|An image analysis system was used to assess growth in agar bone marrow cultures. The technique has advantages over visual counting techniques; it saves time, increases objectivity, reduces operator errors, and may be used to estimate total cell growth or mean clone size. Either measurement may be used to determine activity levels of factors that affect growth such as colony stimulating factors. The advantages and limitations of the technique will be discussed.
4292310|A new culture vessel was designed for cell suspension culture. A silicone-covered magnet bar fixed by one end to the side wall of the bottle was held horizontally a short distance from the bottom. A standard type magnetic stirrer was used. In contrast to the conventional horizontal movement of "stirring" in cultures the bar moves vertically with a "tapping" motion. This improvement resulted in less cell injury, higher rate of cell proliferation and formation of fewer bubbles than in the conventional type. Nine cell types were simultaneously cultivated in tapping, stirring and stationary culture. All cell types proliferated more luxuriously in tapping cultures than in stirring cultures. Serial cultivation of cells in tapping cultures was also successful.
4292783|Ob17 is a clonal cell line isolated from the epididymal fat pad of C57 BL/6J ob/ob mouse that differentiates into adiposelike cells in serum-supplemented medium. In serumfree medium, this cell line shows increased growth under the addition of insulin, transferrin, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and a factor present in extract of rat submaxillary gland (SMGE). This medium is referred to as 4F. Epidermal growth factor or nerve growth factor cannot replace SMGE, whereas partially purified platelet extract can substitute for FGF but only partially for SMGE. 4F Medium is able to support the proliferation of cells from other established preadipocyte clonal lines, HGFu and 3T3-F442A, and also of preadipocyte cells isolated from the stromal-vascular fraction of rat and mouse adipose tissues. In each case 4F medium is insufficient to support the differentiation of these cells into adipocytes. Ob17 cells grown and maintained in serum-free hormone-supplemented medium retain the ability to convert to adiposelike cells after serum addition. This serum requirement for differentiation cannot be substituted by the addition of growth hormone or of other putative adipogenic factors, or both. The results are discussed with respect to the requirements for growth and differentiation of the 3T3-L1 and 1246 preadipocyte cell lines previously described.
4292698|A new method was tested for studies of penetration of substances into tumorlike tissue. The penetration of the ions K
4292294|Epithelial outgrowths from hamster cheek pouch explants were cultured for varying periods of time up to 22 days. Growth of the epithelial sheets was monitored, employing colcemid for demonstrating mitotic activity and tritiated thymidine for DNA synthesis. Mitoses and thymidine uptake were observed among epithelial outgrowths at a considerable distance from the original explant. The epithelial nature of the growing cell sheets was confirmed, employing electron microscopic techniques. The cells exhibited the presence of tonofilaments, desmosomes, ribosomes, Golgi, mitochondria, and rough endoplasmic reticulum. The cultured explants were treated with cyclic nucleotides in order to investigate their modulatory effects on epithelial cell differentiation. Dibutyryl cAMP induced marked mitotic inhibition (46.3%) in our assay, which was increased to 57% with the addition of theophylline. Dibutyryl cGMP showed only a mild (5%) stimulatory effect on mitotic activity. Dibutyryl cAMP enhanced keratinization in the epithelial cell outgrowths with the biogenesis of keratohyalin granules, whereas dibutyryl cGMP did not produce any observable alterations.
4292825|Human myometrial cells were dispersed from uterine tissue by limited enzymatic digestion of myometrium that was obtained at the time of hysterectomy. The dispersed myometrial cells that are obtained in this manner can be maintained in monolayer culture in the presence of medium that contains fetal bovine serum. In primary culture, as well as after passage, the characteristics of these cells are morphologically and biochemically similar to those of smooth muscle cells and myometrial tissue.
4291945|Since the designation of the human MA 160 line as prostatic epithelial cells has been questioned and the possibility of HeLa cross contamination raised, this comparative study of
4292209|The melanoma of Sinclair swine exhibits several characteristics similar to human melanoma but demonstrates an unusually high incidence of spontaneous regression. A total of 66 finite cell lines derived from 21 swine melanotic lesions, both cutaneous and visceral, were studied in vitro over their life spans of up to 14 months. The growth characteristics of the cultures varied with the age of the swine from which the tumors were obtained. Cell cultures of tumors obtained from swine aged less than 2 months grew steadily in culture with a population-doubling time of 120 to 180 hr until growth and division ceased after a maximum of 25 to 35 population doublings (6 to 8 passages). Cell cultures of tumors obtained from swine aged 3 months or older showed a biphasic growth pattern with an early slow growth rate (population-doubling time 120 to 160 hr), which shifted after 3 to 6 passages to a faster rate (80 to 110 hr population-doubling time) until termination of growth and division after a maximum of 75 to 85 population doublings (18 to 20 passages). The cultures were morphologically heterogeneous including cuboidal, spindle and dendritic cell types. Electron microscopy showed classic melanosomes only in the primary and passage 1 cultures although vesicular inclusions were numerous in later-passage cells. However, continued melanin synthesis was indicated by the spectroscopic characteristics of material obtained from medium of passage 8 cultures and by DOPA staining of cultures as advanced as passage 18.
4292809|A rat liver-derived epithelial cell line transformed with DL-ethionine and the corresponding control cell line were characterized according to morphological and cytochemical criteria to establish their origin from liver epithelium and to identify cellular changes due to transformation by DL-ethionine. The presence of intermediate junctions confirms the epithelial nature; glycogen accumulation and glucose-6-phosphatase activity confirm the hepatic origin of the cells. Persistent alterations resulting from ethionine transformation were variations in cell shape and size, focal multilayered growth, an increase in the nucleolar:nuclear ratio, and a reduction in the number of cells displaying a primary cilium. Hyperplasia of the inner nuclear membrane, elongation and branching of mitochondria, and a reduction in the length and frequency of cell junctions were also characteristic of the transformed cells.
20170393|An inexpensive method for achieving quantitative clonal growth of single cells and small clumps of cells of Haplopappus gracilis (Nutt.) Gray on filter paper discs is described. Plating efficiencies of 55-80% are routinely obtained. This method depends upon the presence of a feeder layer of cells only in the initial phases of the plating, allows easy counting of colonies and permits rapid, convenient transfer of groups of colonies to other media without loss of individual colony identity or spatial distribution.
4291581|The adsorption of methylcellulose (MC) by LM mouse cells from phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), Hanks' solution without glucose (HBSS), and medium 199 (199) with or without peptone (P) has been demonstrated by chemical and radioactive methods. A fixed amount of MC was removed from PBS and HBSS containing MC, whereas cells suspended in 199P containing MC were capable of taking up larger amounts as the MC concentration increased. Suspension and monolayer cells behaved similarly. Treatment with 2,4-dinitrophenol did not inhibit adsorption in PBS. The osmotic pressure, viscosity, and surface tension for these solutions indicated that physical forces were involved in the effects of MC on cells. MC at low concentrations reacted with mono and divalent cations. Autoradiography showed the presence of MC at or near the surface of cells. Vaccinia virus uptake by monolayer cells was delayed but not inhibited. This appeared to be related to the calculated diffusion coefficients of the virus. Magnesium ions reduced the plaque titer in a manner independent of the MC effect. Electron microscopy demonstrated the adherence of several virus particles per cell at the membrane or on the microvilli, with or without MC treatment, but cell clumping occurred more readily without MC. It is concluded that several chemical and physical effects account for the behavior of LM cells in MC-containing media. Use of MC thus makes possible large scale virus production in LM cells in protein-free medium.
4292608|Supernatant fluids from cultures of a mouse mammary tumor (MT) cell line were found to produce a specific cell detachment effect when inoculated into HeLa cells. The cell detachment factor (CDF) responsible for this effect was examined. Repeated attempts to cultivate this CDF in bacteriologic, fungal, and mycoplasma media were unsuccessful. However, using the DNA fluorochrome staining technique and specific immunofluorescent staining procedures, the CDF was identified positively as a noncultivable strain of Mycoplasma hyorhinis. It was also noted that this CDF could be labeled with
20170500| Methods have been developed for measuring the intracellular water space (ICS) in cultured diploid fibroblast monolayers. The values obtained have been compared to similar measurements of ICS in suspended fibroblasts using an oil spin method. Markers commonly used for measurement of total water space (TWS) ([H]HO, [C]urea) and extra-cellular space (ECS) ([H]inulin, [C]L-glucose, [H]sucrose, [H]D-mannitol) were investigated for use in cell monolayers. Monolayer incubations were terminated by rapidly rinsing the culture dishes three times with ice cold buffer. The distribution volume of the TWS marker [C]urea plateaued at 10 to 15 min and was independent of urea concentration. [H]HO was not a suitable marker for measuring total water space in cell monolayers because of rapid loss of intracellular label during rinsing. Intracellular space was calculated by subtracting [H]sucrose space (5 min) from [C]urea space (20 min) after incubation of fibroblasts with both markers. Values obtained for ICS (mean  SE; l/10 cells) of fibroblasts from two cell lines measured in monolayer (1.74  0.11 and 1.60  0.10) and in suspension (1.88  0.07 and 1.78  0.11) was approximately 10% smaller than the values for cell size (2.01 and 2.22) obtained from Coulter Counter sizing. Thus, the methods developed for measurement of ICS in monolayer fibroblasts yield data comparable to those obtained with the more standard oil spin method. Furthermore, the methods can be applied to measurement of ICS in other types of adherent cells. 
20170315|Conditioned media of 21 mammalian cell lines have been examined by electron microscopic and biochemical techniques for the presence of a minute ring-shaped nucleoprotein particle (RSP). Electron microscopy showed the presence of RSP in 20 of the 21 cell lines tested. Comparative analyses of six cell cultures for radio-active RSP, following H-thymidine incorporation, suggested that quantitative differences exist in the amount of RSP detectable in conditioned media of normal and pathologic cells. The cell lines tested included cells of different morphologies, origin and function.
4291588|The status of the matrix theory of antigen presentation to lymphocyte receptors is discussed in the light of recent and current work. The theory gives an adequate account of the T-B lymphocyte cooperation, the role of macrophages in antigen potentiation, the special immunogenic capacity of polymeric antigens and the central role of antibody in initiating tolerance. By extension it accounts also for the synergistic role of red cells and other membranes in potentiating lymphocyte transformation by PHA. It does not account adequately for signal discrimination. The importance of bridging in anti-immunoglobulin experiments, and studies on control by anti-immunoglobulin complexes and by antigen-antibody complexes indicate that factors other than net antigen concentration play an important part in the control of events at the lymphocyte surface. These factors are provisionally identified as topographical, but no comprehensive theory of receptor binding, pattern or density is yet formulated. It appears likely that comparable topographical factors will be important in other kinds of cell interactions and in the control of morphogenesis.
4292773| Histochemical techniques have been applied to the identification of cell types cultured from human endometrium. Previous work from this laboratory characterized two principal cell types found in cultures of endometrium: a mature epithelial cell and another cell which was classified as the endometrial stromal cell based on light and electron microscopy. In this report we compare the histochemical staining of endometrial tissue in frozen sections to that of cultured cells. These results confirm the epithelial and stromal nature of the respective cell types. Several markers were found that could distinguish between cells of epithelial and stromal origin. The enzymes alkaline phosphatase, -glutamyltrans-peptidase, peroxidase, and -glucuronidase were localized in glandular and surface epithelia in frozen sections and in colonies of epithelial cells in culture. Stroma in frozen sections and cultured stromal cells contained leucine aminopeptidase and fibronectin. Epithelia in sections and in culture could also be distinguished from cells of stromal origin by preferential binding of lotus and peanut lectin. Several other markers were found in both endometrial epithelium and stroma. 
4291798|This investigation showed that: (a) hypotonic pH 5.0 extracts of normal and Down's syndrome fibroblasts cells (DS) exhibit DNase activity which appears to be very similar in nature and extent; (b) DNA polymerase activity was generally increased in DS cells when compared with normal cells; (c) DNA polymerase activity was increased with increased passage age for both normal and DS fibroblasts, but the normal fibroblast was never found to overlap with DS cell activity; and (d) normal cells appear to have a similar DNA polymerase activity at all chronological ages, whereas DS cells exhibit a decrease in activity with increased age of the donor.
4292180|A sensitive ultramicrochemical enzyme test for mycoplasmal contamination of cultured cells, based on the determination of the activity of adenosine phosphorylase, is described. The test was performed by assaying the enzymatic conversion of
4292880| Freshly isolated hepatocytes from neonatal rats were cultured for approximately 24 h; incubated for 5, 30, or 60 min in solutions containing 0, 50, 100, or 200 M cadmium; embedded in plastic; and sectioned for optical microscopy. The extent of cadmium-induced hepatotoxicity was evaluated by double-blind morphometric analysis (a geometricostatistical processing of two-dimensional data for the collection of three-dimensional information) whereby hepatocytes were classified on the basis of the severity of morphologic damage at the optical level. Both time and concentration effects were studied. Cultures exposed to 200 M cadmium, for various intervals of time from 5 to 60 min, showed statistically significant reductions in the relative volume percent of normal hepatocytes, elevations (then reductions) in the relative volume percent of slightly damaged hepatocytes, increases in the relative volume percent of moderately damaged cells, and increases in the relative volume percent of severely damaged liver cells. As the concentration of cadmium was increased from 50 to 200 M cadmium (during both 30 and 60-min exposures), significant trends were observed in cellular distribution patterns based on relative volume percent. Morphologically normal cells decreased, both slightly damaged and moderately damaged cells increased, and severely damaged cells remained unchanged. These results indicated that morphometric analysis at the optical level provided quantitative estimates for the evaluation of time- and concentration-effects of cadmium on cultured hepatocytes. 
20170260|Cells of primary and secondary cultures of rat heart ventricle were grown in a medium supplemented with homologous plasma to avoid the non-specific proliferogenic effects of foreign sera. Specific chelation of calcium from the medium arrested the cells' progression through their cycle at the G1 phase. A permanent or brief restoration of the extracellular calcium level (48 hr later) was followed, after a 5 to 6 hr delay, by a burst of DNA synthesis, and the resumption of mitotic activity.
4292199| Purified epithelial-cell monolayers were generated in vitro from explants of fetal rat pancreas. The extent of the development of the epithelial monolayer, as determined by planimetric analysis, was enhanced by the application of two methodological procedures: (a) preincubation of fetal pancreas in situ at 27 C for 5 hr prior to dissection and explantation; and (b) incubation of the explants in medium containing a high concentration (50% to 70%) of fetal bovine serum. By utilizing such culture conditions, sheets of contiguous epithelial cells, with little or no peripheral fibroblastic contamination, were maintained for 9 days. Whereas the majority of cells within the monolayer had morphological characteristics of pancreatic ductal cells, endocrine cells were identified by the specific immunocyto-chemical localization of insulin and glucagon. In addition, insulin could be detected in the incubation medium throughout the course of the experiment. The simplicity of this preparation offers some advantages over other techniques including reduced chance of contamination and reduced cellular damage or death. It provides a model for future studies directed toward developing individual cell strains derived from pancreatic epithelial cells. 
4292658| A new human endometrial cell line, RL95-2, derived from a Grade 2 moderately differentiated adenosquamous carcinoma of the endometrium has been passaged successfully in cell culture for more than 2 yr. The cells are characteristically epithelioid with well-defined junctional complexes, tonofilaments, filopodialike extensions, and surface microvilli. Nuclei are large, irregular, and invaginated frequently with multiple, prominent, lamellar nucleoli. The cells have a log phase doubling time of 22 to 34 h followed by continued growth at a reduced rate with no apparent plateau phase. They exhibit a strong tendency for piling up as well as for the formation of glandlike dome structures. Karyotypically the line is trisomic 8 (47,XX,+8) and has an 8% frequency of polyploidization. Both cytoplasmic and nuclear estrogen receptors are present. Antihuman -keratin characterizes the cell line as epithelial, nonstromal. The RL95-2 cell line may provide a useful in vitro system for the investigation of the endocrine regulation of endometrial neoplasia. 
4292028|Normal erythropoiesis involves differentiation of uncommitted stem cells through committed erythroid precursors into cells specialized for hemoglobin synthesis. Several aspects of this developmental sequence may be studied in murine erythroleukemic cells infected with Friend virus complex. These cells are arrested at the proerythroblast stage, yet capable of continuous growth in vitro. Maturation along an erythroid pathway is induced after treatment with a variety of agents (e.g. dimethylsulfoxide, butyric acid, hemin, ouabain). Following induction, the cells morphologically resemble normoblasts, accumulate globin mRNAs and strain-specific globins, increase heme synthesis and acquire erythrocyte membrane antigens. Cloned populations of erythroleukemic cells mature in a nonhomogeneous fashion upon induction, indicative of a stochastic response in the inductive process. This "probability of differentiation" phenotype is formally analogous to stem cell development in which hematopoietic precursor cells form a constant, dividing population from which cells are continuously maturing. Although the sequence of events involved in triggering differentiation is uncertain, cloning and cell hybridization experiments demonstrate that this phenotype is under rather stable genetic (or epigenetic) control. Recent molecular analysis shows that induced differentiation is accompanied by transcriptional activation of the globin genes rather than posttranscriptional stabilization of the globin RNAs. Further application of cellular, molecular and genetic approaches in this system may help to define specific control mechanisms in erythroid development.
4292507|To provide an in vitro system for studies of brain capillary function we developed a method for culture of brain capillary endothelial cells. Capillaries were isolated from rat brain and enzymatically treated to remove the basement membrane and contaminating pericytes. Subsequent Percoll gradient centrifugation resulted in a homogeneous population of capillary endothelial cells that attached to a collagen substrate and incorporated
4292751| A culture medium was developed that allowed the maintenance and growth of oocytes from the marine polychaete Nereis virens. The ionic composition of the basic salt solution and the medium was similar to that of Nereis coelomic fluid and had a total osmolarity of 920 mOSM. Longevity and the growth of cultured oocytes were investigated with respect to the presence of amino acids and Nereis vitellin in the medium. Some oocytes survived for up to 6 wk. In vitro growth occurred at a rate of about 1 m diam/d (15 C) and cultured cells seemed morphologically and ultrastructurally normal. 
4292908|The phorbol ester, 12-0-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) was used as a comitogen with the plant lectins phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and concanavalin A (ConA) in short-term cultures of whole blood from nonmammalian vertebrates. Stimulation with TPA in addition to standard mitogens resulted in a synergistic effect, consistently yielding more metaphases than cultures stimulated with either PHA, ConA, or TPA alone and is successful with blood samples as small as 0.1 ml. The increased mitotic index makes it possible to use different banding procedures for systematic studies. Also, because the amount of blood needed is so small, this procedure, unlike other published techniques, does not require the destruction of smaller animals to do chromosome studies.
4292109|Radiochromium uptake and release by isolated rat hepatocytes in suspension was monitored under continuous-labeling conditions. Cell protein remained unchanged during the absorption phase, whereas the release of
4292591|Mammary gland epithelial cells from rats of different ages or with different reproductive histories vary in their proliferative properties and susceptibility to dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) carcinogenesis in vivo. The present study was carried out to determine whether these differences are maintained under in vitro conditions. Primary cultures of mammary gland epithelial cells of young virgin, old virgin, and parous rats were treated with various doses of DMBA. Growth rates, DNA synthesis, and dose-response curves were determined; the toxicity of DMBA was measured by its effect on cell growth. Cell morphology was studied by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. Epithelial cells from the mammary gland of young virgin rats adapted rapidly to the culture conditions, behaving as if the cells were in the logarithmic phase of growth prior to plating. Mammary gland epithelial cells from old virgin and parous rats required a lag period prior to cell growth during which the proliferating cells adapted to the culture conditions. Cells from each group had comparable doubling times, and DNA synthesis peaked approximately 1 d after initiation of growth in culture. The numbers of proliferating cells decreased with increasing age and parity of the donor. Mammary gland epithelial cells of young virgin rats were more susceptible to both low and high doses of DMBA than those of old virgin and parous rats when the carcinogen was added either 24 h after plating or at the peak of DNA synthesis. These results indicate that age and parity influence the proliferative status of the cells and their susceptibility to DMBA in vitro, simulating in that way the in vivo situation.
4291909|Using chemical transformation of primary monolayers of hamster ventral prostate tissue, we have established the HVP-G3 and HVP-B1 cloned cell lines which have been growing in our laboratories for over 18 months. Both cell lines contain high-affinity, saturable androgen receptors which migrate into the nucleus when exposed to physiological doses of androgen. However, neither cell line demonstrates a growth response to androgens. Each cell line will produce a tumor in 6 to 8 weeks when injected subcutaneously into male or female Syrian hamsters. In vitro cell doubling times range from 12 hr in the presence of luteinizing hormone (LH-NIH-S-18) to 18 hr in the presence of 5% serum. Both cell lines have a diploid stemline.
4292184|Past in vitro studies of liver-cell functions have been performed on nonproliferating primary cells or serially propagated hepatic monolayers of neoplastic or fetal origin. We optimized conditions for the selective culture of adult rabbit and canine liver parenchymal cells and presently have four differentiated proliferating monolayer strains. At the 30th passage level these hepatic cultures still display the specific liver parenchymal functions of albumin and fibrinogen synthesis as well as tyrosine aminotransferase activity. Optimization of the conditions for hepatocyte culture was monitored by
4292904|Postnatal rat heart cells in culture enriched with respect to muscle cells were obtained by either high density seeding or by the replating technique.
4291766|The ability of peptides containing lysine to satisfy the lysine requirement of mammalian cells in a medium otherwise free of this indispensable amino acid was investigated. In contrast to bacteria, which are unable to utilize pentalysine and higher homologs, mammalian cells are able to grow in the presence of di- to decalysine. For each oligopeptide, the response was proportional to concentration within a limited range. The duration of the lag and logarithmic growth phases was directly proportional to peptide size, and the growth rate decreased with peptide size. Utilization of decalysine was not accompanied by the accumulation of smaller oligomers in the medium or in the trichloroacetic acid soluble fraction of a cell lysate. However, enzymes capable of hydrolyzing decalysine were clearly demonstrable inside the cells and in the spent culture medium. It is concluded that the rate of uptake is inversely proportional to peptide size and is growth rate-limiting, and that free lysine produced by intracellular peptidases is used as quickly as it is formed. Although the serum proteins used to supplement the growth medium contained more lysine in peptide linkage than is needed by the cells, this lysine is not available to the cells in significant amount.
20170282| The purpose of these experiments was to determine which exogenous energy sources are suitable for isolated follicle cell-free oocytes from the frog, Xenopus laevis. In order to compare prospective energy sources, follicle cell-free oocytes from 0.4 to 1.3 mm in diameter were incubated in a 1 mM concentration of each of a variety of energy sources and scored daily for the maintenance of morphological characteristics. Vitellogenic oocytes placed in succinate or fumarate deteriorated at the same time as those in saline alone. Oocytes incubated in oxaloacetate (OAA) appeared to remain in the best morphological condition, followed by oocytes maintained in pyruvate or glucose. Fully grown oocytes were tested at various times of incubation for their ability to respond to progesterone by undergoing germinal vesicle breakdown. These experiments showed that oocytes placed in OAA or pyruvate retained the ability to respond to progesterone longer than those in the other energy sources. Increased respiratory rates were stimulated in isolated oocyte mitochondria by succinate as well as pyruvate and OAA. However, oocytes incubated in labelled pyruvate evolved 80 to 140 times as much labelled CO as oocytes incubated in labelled glucose or succinate. In addition, it was found that the rate of uptake of pyruvate is 20 to 25 times greater than the rate of uptake of glucose or succinate. It is concluded from these experiments that OAA and pyruvate are the most effective exogenous energy sources for the in vitro maintenance of Xenopus oocytes. One possible explanation for the ineffectiveness of glucose or succinate as exogenous energy sources is a restriction in their uptake into the oocytes. 
4292088| Certain bacteriophages have been found in live virus vaccines, while a few others have been associated with disease states. Some of these phages have produced abnormal growth of eukaryotic tissue cultures. For this reason bacteriophages X-174, MS2, T2 and an isolate from live virus vaccines, V-1, were incubated with human cell cultures for examination of chromosomal effects, cell proliferation and viability. Mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes and human embryonic kidney tissue cultures showed no increase in chromosomal abnormalities for high doses of phage-infected versus control cultures. Tritiated-thymidine uptake, correlated with mitotic indices for phage-treated lymphocyte cultures, indicated a reduction in cell division, while 51-chromium release studies showed no cell death occurring in these cultures. This suggested that inhibition of DNA synthesis was occurring in some cells. The presence of phage in the supernate of cells that were exposed to phage suggested the possibility of phage attachment to the plasma membranes of lymphocytes, which may in turn affect the suppression of DNA synthesis. 
4292579|Out of three attempts to induce neoplasia in normal C57B1 mammary epithelial cells with the mouse mammary tumor virus (MuMTV) only one presented signs of tumorigenicity. Immunofluorescence showed that virus synthesis took place in all three sublines but tumorigenicity as detected by cell aggregation viability (CAV) and transplantation into syngeneic mice failed to occur in two of them. By comparison, cells from a BALB/c spontaneous mammary tumor that do not express MuMTV were 100% tumorigenic, whereas cells from a BALB/cfC3H tumor with a 95% virus-producing cell population had a normal CAV and were tumorigenic only in 60% of the test animals. This lack of correlation suggested that many of the virus-producing cells were not neoplastic and that neoplasia might occur under virus stimulation only if a restricted population of genetic cell variants existed. Accelerated tissue culture passages of virus-free C57B1 and BALB/c normal mammary cells resulted in their spontaneous neoplasia at Passages 23 and 50, respectively; when duplicated cells cryopreserved in early passages were revived and cultivated in the same manner, neoplasia occurred at Passages 27 and 58. The similarity of the passage numbers appears to confirm the existence of genetic cell variants among the normal cell population.
4292629|Root callus of sugar maple (Acer saccharum, Marsh.) exhibits differential metabolic activities and cellular morphologies at different depths. A thin layer of acid phosphatase-active cells encloses a second layer of cells that reduce nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT). Mitosis occurs within the cells of this NBT reducing layer (which is one-third of the total depth of the callus), and the cells beneath it show acid phosphatase activity. Morphologically the cells at the outer surface appear tubular and loosely attached, with intact nuclei and cytoplasm. The cells of the NBT region are isodiametric and possess a large vacuole. The cells below the NBT region show progressive degeneration with depth by loss of nuclei, cytoplasm, and cell wall integrity. There is new cell growth only from the NBT region when aseptically cut callus sections are placed on new medium, regardless of whether or not this region is in direct contact with the agar. Several hypotheses to explain sugar maple callus organization are discussed.
4291937|Defined in vitro conditions for callus initiation by Gossypium arboreum L. were determined, and different tissues were evaluated as explant sources. Environmental conditions tested included light versus dark, and low light versus high light. Different nutrient media as well as carbohydrate sources were examined. Our data show that hypocotyl tissue was superior to cotyledon or leaf tissue as the explant source for callus proliferation; the Murashige-Skoog inorganic formulation with (in mg per l) 100 myo-inositol,
20170439| Cells were isolated from  30 d fetal rabbit stomachs and cultured on floating collagen gels. Electron microscopy showed monolayers in which only one cell type persisted. These columnar cells were joined at apical borders by tight junctions and contained an extensive endoplasmic reticular network with an occasional intracellular canaliculus. They also occasionally contained what appeared what appeared to be secretory granules (mucus?), and therefore had some characteristics of all the cell types of the intact fetal stomachs, which showed oxyntic, mucous, and undifferentiated cells. In Ussing chambers with Ringer's solution on both sides, cultures developed transepithelial potential (potential difference [PD], mV, mucosa ground) = 13, resistance (resistance [R],  -cm) = 285, and short-circuit current (
20170278|Tissue-like aggregates of human embryo fibroblasts can be created in vitro by limited aspiration of cells released from substrate during subcultivation. Aggregates increase in size, exhibit intercellular junctions, display a surface topography characteristic of cellular movement, elaborate an extracellular matrix and possess features of cellular death and phagocytosis. These cells, when introduced to a new culture environment, do not migrate away from one another as is common when a primary culture is started from tissue fragments. Instead, cells exhibit continued contact with each other, and develop complex junctional structures during that association. Cellular aggregates generated in this manner may provide a useful system for providing further information on cellular adhesion, intercellular communication, morphogenetic cell movements and the mechanisms of cell death.
4292198|In a transfer hood having positive pressure via flow of filtered air, momentary flaming of flask mouths via an alcohol lamp or natural gas burner introduced variable and often large amounts of ethylene into these culture vessels. Amounts of ethylene introduced depended upon where flask mouths were placed within the flame. Most ethylene diffused out of flasks within 2 hr if adequate fresh air exchange was provided, permitting cotton ovules to respond to hormones in ways reported in previous literature. However, it was concluded that flask-flaming could occasionally account for some variability in hormonal responses of cultured cotton ovules. Specifically, ethylene (assumed to be the most abundant and harmful substance admitted to the flasks via flaming) caused excessive ovular callus formation in combination with GA
4292389| Chemically defined media SFRE-199-1 for the growth and SFRE-199-2 for the maintenance of primary baboon kidney (Bak) cell cultures were formulated by supplementing medium M199 with insulin, sodium pyruvate, zinc sulfate, and increasing arginine-HCl, cysteine, cystine, L-glutamine, L-glutamic acid, glycine, histidine, tyrosine, and glucose to maximally active nontoxic concentrations. For prolonged maintenance of the cells, physiological pH control, and blocking of excessive lactic acid accumulation in the spent medium of the cell cultures, it was necessary to supplement the medium containing Earle's balanced salts with D-(+) galactose. The cells grew and were maintained equally well on glass or polystyrene surfaces. Selenium, when added to growth medium or substituted for insulin and zinc sulfate, did not stimulate cell growth. Electron microscopy showed that numerous dense particles, approximately 250 to 400  in diameter, with the appearance of glycogen, were found throughout the cytoplasm in the cells grown in SFRE-199-1 and maintained in SFRE-199-2. Echovirus types 1 to 3, poliovirus types 1 to 3, coxsackievirus types B2, B4, B5, Herpesvirus hominis type 1, simian herpesvirus H. simiae and SA8, and simian adenovirus SV34 when titrated in primary Bak cells and grown and maintained in SFRE-199-1 and 2, respectively, developed titers comparable to those obtained in conventionally grown and maintained cells. 
4292026|Lactogenesis in mammary gland of the mouse requires cortisol (or corticosterone) and prolactin. In this paper we review some recent findings in our laboratory regarding influence of the corticosteroid on casein mRNA activity of lactating mammary gland. Adrenal ablation in nursing mothers results in loss of larger ribosomal aggregates (polysomes) from mammary cells; and this is accompanied by virtual abolition of immunologically detectable casein synthesis activity of the polysomes. Immunologically determined casein mRNA activity in phenol-chloroform-extracted lactating mammary cell RNA was assayed in ascites tumor cell ribosome cell-free protein synthesis system. Adrenalectomy induces 90% loss of casein mRNA activity of mammary cells of nursing mothers; this adverse response is also preventable by cortisol therapy of the animal. This suggests that the glucocorticoid influences the concentration of functionally active casein mRNA in the mammary cells. Cortisol treatment of adrenalectomized mothers also causes a pronounced increase of precursor (
4292207|A new micromethod, called the Stanzen technique, is described for the rapid determination of DNA and protein content as well as the incorporation rates of radioactively labeled precursors into macromolecules in cells growing in replica minicultures on plastic petri dishes. The procedure yielded reproducible results assaying only minimal cell numbers per sample and was applied for studying both primary or early passaged cell cultures (mouse epidermal cells and fibroblasts) and a malignantly transformed epidermal cell line. In four well defined circular areas (called Stanzen) marked on the bottom of tissue-culture plastic petri dishes (by heated stamps),
4292263|Centrifugal elutriation (counterflow centrifugation) was used to develop a reproducible method for obtaining a nearly pure population of isolated alveolar type II cells. Lung was dissociated into individual cells with recrystallized trypsin, and the type II cells were partially purified by centrifugation on a discontinuous density gradient. The alveolar type II cells were finally purified by centrifugal elutriation. Cells were collected from the elutriator rotor by stepwise increases in flow rates. Cells obtained at flow rates of 7 and 14 ml per min were lymphocytes, other small cells, a few type II cells and cell debris; cells collected at flow rates of 18 and 22 ml per min were mainly type II cells; and cells collected at flow rates of 28, 34 and 43 ml per min were macrophages, some type II cells, other lung cells and cell aggregates. At flow rates of 18 and 22 ml per min,
4291943|The nature of tetracycline uptake by carrot cell suspension cultures is described. Tetracycline enters the cells by diffusion and the intracellular level of the antibiotic increases with the amount added. Exposure of carrot cells to high levels of tetracycline for a limited time (24 hr) followed by the removal of the drug and the resuspension of the cells in drug-free medium does not affect cell growth and has no inhibitory effect on protein synthesis (
20170422|The binding of polyuridylate to cells in the presence of proflavine may be used as a probe to provide relative estimates of exposed polyanionic regions on the external surface of the cell. This probe binds preferably to hydrophilic, polyanionic regions, and soluble polysaccharides containing either carboxylate or sulfate groups compete with the binding of this probe. Binding of the probe to protein and lipid regions is considerably weaker. Virus-transformed human fibroblasts bind 10 times less of the probe than nontransformed cells when confluent monolayers are compared. However, as the cell density is decreased, the amount of probe bound per cell increases dramatically both for transformed as well as for normal cells. In fact, human fibroblasts (a) derived from normal donors, (b) from donors with different metabolic disorders, and (c) transformed by simian virus 40, all bind about the same amount of probe when compared at the same density. Populations of human fibroblasts aged in vitro, which contain high proportions of large cells and grow only to relatively low densities in monolayers, bind disproportionately large amounts of the complex.
4292403|The in vitro expression of the autosomal dominant mutation responsible for neurofibromatosis was probed using the amino acid analogue 3-nitrotyrosine as a cell culture selective agent. The presence of 3-nitrotyrosine in culture medium led to inhibition of growth and cell death among normal skin fibroblasts in log phase growth, whereas cell strains derived from six different patients' neurofibromas or skin cells, or both, exhibited a consistently enhanced ability to survive under the same conditions. At 0.8 mM 3-nitrotyrosine, four patient-derived skin fibroblast strains could be differentiated from five strains of control skin fibroblasts with a high level of confidence (P<0.0000). In the same way four neurofibroma-derived fibroblast strains were differentiated from control skin fibroblasts (P<0.0022). Neurofibroma-derived cells were not different from control cells when treated with 5-fluorotryptophan or p-fluorophenylalanine.
4291617|Three mosquito cell cultures designated as Suitor's clone of Aedes aegypti, Culiseta inornata, and Aedes vexans were shown to be moth by immunological, karyological, and isozyme analyses. The cells reacted with rabbit antimoth serum but not rabbit anti-mosquito serum. Chromosome analyses indicated Lepidopteran rather than Dipteran morphology, and three isozyme systems were confirmative. Any one of these assays would be sufficient to indicate that contamination had occurred and could be used as a periodic check for identity of cell cultures. Morphology and growth characteristics are also valid criteria to distinguish between these particular orders of insect cells.
20170340| Several cell lines, originally thought to be derived from a human placenta at term but possibly HeLa-contaminated, have been studied. These cells secrete a protein indistinguishable immunochemically from the alpha subunit of chorionic gonadotropin but not the beta subunit of chorionic gonadotropin or placental lactogen. Complete chorionic gonadotropin was detected but amounted to less than 1% of the level of the alpha subunit. The cells also produce an alkaline phosphatase similar to placental alkaline phosphatase in immunochemical, gel-electrophoretic, and heat-denaturation properties. They induce tumor growth when inoculated into nude mice. These cells are aneuploid and have a model chromosome number of 66. The common HeLa karyologic markers, designated 1, 2, and 3, and A-type glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase are present in these cells. HeLa cells have not previously been shown to secrete the  subunit of hCG. 
4292214|In vitro conditions are defined for starting and maintaining callus and suspension cells from two cotton (Gossypium hirsitum L.) varieties, Im 216 and Acala 44, which are resistant and susceptible, respectively, to the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas malvacearum (E. F. Sm.) Dows. A light, friable callus was easily obtained and has been maintained for over 4 years. Whether stems or leaves, the explant source for callus initiation made no difference for growth of callus tissue. Acala 44 callus had a fresh-weight doubling time of 4 to 5 days, and Im 216 callus had a fresh-weight doubling time of 4 to 9 days; however, in suspension culture the fresh-weight doubling times for Im 216 and Acala 44 were 6 days. The pH of the suspension medium dropped to 4.7 during the exponential growth phase and rose to 5.4 at the stationary phase. Attempts to induce root and shoot initiation from these callus cells were unsuccessful; however, greening of the callus tissue did occur. Schenk and Hildebrandt medium was used for both callus and suspension cultures. Inoculation of Im 216 and Acala 44 callus tissues with two races of X. malvacearum resulted in a resistant and susceptible response, respectively.
4292533|Shoot and embryolike structures were obtained in cultures of various tissues of mature conifer trees. Morphogenesis occurred in haploid and diploid tissues of female cones of Pinus mugo and Picea abies, although only rarely. Vegetative shoots dissected from early spring buds of Abies balsamea, Picea glauca, and Pseudotsuga menziesii were more responsive, with most of the organized growth occurring at the base of young needles. The following sequence of treatments was most effective: (a) collect twigs with buds shortly before budbreak, (b) cold store for at least 1 month, (c) force buds to break before excision of the vegetative shoots (keep submerged in water during excision), and (d) soak explant in malonic acid, 1 g/l, for 15 min before transfer of the shoots to the nutrient medium.
20170354| Environmental sampling was performed during trypsinization and passage of 3T-6 cell cultures that contained a mean of 4.3  10 colony forming units (CFU) per ml supernatant of A. laidlawii. The lip of the culture flask and the outside of the used pipet were always heavily contaminated. The outside of the culture flask (3/7), the work surface (8/12) and the outside of a pan of disinfectant (4/5) were regularly contaminated with mycoplasmas. Airborne mycoplasmas were detected eight of 32 times (25%) by settling plates; simultaneous forced-air samplers by two different methods were always negative. The technician's hands were contaminated two of 15 samples. When hands were contaminated, more contamination was detected in the environment. Droplets of A. laidlawii and M. orale inoculated onto work surfaces survived drying for a minimum of 3 days, even in laminar airflow cabinets. Twenty-five of 31 (80.6%) cell culture technicians carried M. salivarium in their throats; only two carried M. orale. It is concluded that mycoplasma-infected cultures are the most common source of further infection. Recommendations for prevention and control of mycoplasmal infection are listed. 
4292235|In previous studies, mouse cells grown in medium supplemented with horse serum (HS) developed more chromosomal aberrations and underwent malignant transformation earlier than cells from the same pool grown with fetal bovine serum (FBS) supplement. In the present study cells derived from
4292685| The development of the first branchial (mandibular) arch of the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) is studied in organ culture for the first time. There is extensive mandibular morphogenesis in vitro and the pattern of the differentiated elements, bones, muscles, and cartilage, is comparable to that found during normal development in ovo. In addition, we observe the development of paired lingual swellings and the formation of a small tongue consisting of fibrous, lipid containing, and muscular tissues, as found in the normal tongue. Several culture variables are examined: (a) although alligator embryos normally develop at 30 C, we successfully culture the mandibular rudiments with good short term (3 wk) results at 37 C; (b) at 30 C, we are able to culture arches for long term periods of 6 wk; (c) the mandibular arches develop well in both serum containing medium and in a chemically defined medium free from added hormones. The reptilian mandibular arches exhibit excellent, patterned, development and may have less stringent culture requirements than their avian and mammalian counterparts. 
4291858|Extensive chromosome aberrations were induced in a diploid monkey cell line designated as DBS-FRhL-2 after exposure to [
4292506|Rice cells derived from PI 353705 (similar to Assam 5) were isolated from anthers cultured on Blaydes medium containing IAA, 2,4-D, kinetin, yeast extract, and coconut milk. Isolated aggregates of cells were plated on a modified Blaydes medium containing
4291920|The Madison lung (M109) tumor cell line, initiated from a "spontaneous," anaplastic murine lung carcinoma, has been propagated continuously in vitro for more than 300 cell generations. Cytogenetic analysis revealed a mouse karyotype with a mode of 78 chromosomes (2n = 40). Three distinct marker chromosomes were identified by trypsin-giemsa banding. The cells piled up in culture and had a short generation time and high plating efficiency. Electron microscopy revealed highly undifferentiated cells with little rough endoplasmic reticulum, an abundance of free polysomes, the presence of few and often odd-shaped mitochondria, lipid bodies and phagocytic vacuoles. Virus particles of the C-type were found frequently. The subcutaneous transplantation of M109 cultured cells at a relatively low cell inoculum produced highly metastatic tumors in syngeneic BALB/c mice.
4292446|Mouse full-term embryonic lung tissue was cultured as organ bits using dead, sterile pigskin dermal collagen as a substrate. Explanted organ bits grew on the surface of, and into, the pigskin dermal collagen for at least 9 weeks after the initiation of culture. The outgrowth consisted of a thick cellular sheet containing various sizes of ductular structures within a cellular matrix that did not show any particular structure. Electron microscopic observation revealed that the larger ductular structures consisted largely of ciliated cells. The smaller ductular structure consisted largely of Type II pneumocytes containing lamellar bodies. The cellular matrix consisted of Type II pneumonocytes and other cell types including fibroblasts and macrophages in the early stage of cultivation. Macrophages invaded the pigskin dermal collagen. An intermediate cell type, which has never been observed in vivo, possessing both cilia and lamellar bodies was identified in the larger ductular structures. Upon comparison of the ultra structure of the organoid in vitro cultures in pigskin with the original fetal lung, it was apparent that cytodifferentiation had occurred. The organoid components and structure of the cultured cells more closely resembled adult lung than the fetal lung used to initiate the cultures.
4292633|Production of the glycoprotein hormone
4292046|A permanent tissue-cultured cell line (designated OK) has been established from kidney tissue of an adult American opossum. The OK line has been characterized with respect to morphology, chromosome constitution, tissue-culture requirements, and attainable mitotic arrest. The cells are epithelial-like with a stable nondiploid chromosomal modal number of 23. Cells grown in Eagle's minimal essential medium with 10% fetal bovine serum have a mean doubling time of 18 hr. The cell line OK is potentially useful for the isolation and purification of the mammalian X chromosome because of the size differential between the smaller X's and the larger autosomes.
4291646|Differentiation of glial cells and the glia limitans in organ cultures of chick spinal cord explanted at early neural tube stages, alone or with adjacent tissues, was studied by electron microscopy. Oligodendrocytes and astrocytes comparable to those seen in the chicken in vivo were observed, mainly in areas of good neuronal differentiation. A glia limitans with basal lamina, comparable to that in vivo, was found when spinal cord was bordered by normally adjacent tissues. When it was surrounded by vitelline membrane only, a characteristic limiting layer of glial processes, but no basal lamina, was seen. Contact with a filter membrane (Millipore) elicited excessive differentiation of glial filaments and modified cell fine structure; no glia limitans was formed.
4292837|The B95-8 cell line, a widely used source of highly transforming Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), obtained from the laboratory of origin, harbored an infectious retrovirus. This retrovirus generally resembled the Type D retroviruses structurally and developmentally and like the Type D retroviruses preferred Mg
4291769|Primary cultures of chick embryos have been carried beyond the 50th passage in cell culture media containing N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES). The doubling potential was found to decrease twice as fast for chick cells as it did for WI-38 human cells.
4291594|Segregation of human chromosomes in man-mouse somatic cell hybrids affords a system for the linkage analysis of human gene loci. The isozymes constitute useful phenotypic markers for such studies, since homologous enzymes between man and mouse usually differ in their electrophoretic mobility. Electrophoretic techniques have been compiled for 22 isozymes. In this report, phenotypes are shown for mouse, mouse-human somatic cell hybrids, and human cells cultured in vitro. Polymorphisms and linkage relationships are also discussed for inbred strains of Mus musculus.
4292342|A reliable cell isolation technique was developed to allow the cultivation of cells from the hamster respiratory tract. Repeated thermolysin treatments and gradient centrifugation yielded a cell culture completely free from contamination by fibroblasts. Viable cells could be isolated from as little tissue as a single hamster trachea, but in vitro proliferation occurred only if the hamster was less than 4 months of age. The cultured cells could be repeatedly passaged and subcultured for weeks by employing normal tissue culture techniques. Morphologically, the monolayers appeared to be a homogeneous population of epithelial cells, and successful cloning of freshly isolated single cells resulted in apparently identical cultures. The epithelial origin of these cells was also suggested by continued growth in minimum essential medium with D-valine substituted for L-valine. The relative ease with which this cell type can be isolated, cultured, and manipulated in vitro should encourage its application as a model of the respiratory epithelium.
4292112|An in vitro model of myocardial ischemia has been established with primary monolayer cultures of postnatal rat myocardial cells. Ischemic conditions were simulated in vitro by subjecting the myocardial cell cultures to various levels of oxygen and glucose deprivation. The experimental protocol consisted of treatment with
4292869|We examined the influence of attachment and spreading on myogenesis by adding polylysine-covered beads at different times after plating the cells on a plastic substratum. We show that polylysine per se acting on the cell surface can modulate myogenesis independently of cell spreading. Thus cell shape would not be the limiting factor for the division and differentiation of L
20170552| The rat ovary produces an apparently low molecular weight substance that mimics the action of follitropin (FSH) on ovarian granulosa cells in culture. Similar to FSH action, the ovarian substance (OS) induces temporal cell rounding and, later on, intensive progestin production. However, unlike FSH, OS does not induce accumulation of cyclic AMP (cAMP) in the granulosa cells. The ovarian factor cannot be cAMP as its action is not abolished by phosphodiesterase (PDE) treatment. Neither is it a possible PDE inhibitor, as it does not augment cAMP accumulation in granulosa cells or Friend erythroleukemic cells induced by FSH or PGE, respectively. The factor is still active after heating for 20 min at 90 C but is rapidly inactivated by alkali treatment. In addition, treatment with various proteases did not abolish the steroidogenic activity. These findings suggest a possible novel intraovarian regulator of the granulosa cell function. 
4292504| Cells of Rosa sp. cv Paul's scarlet have been reported to require cytokinin for growth in suspension culture. This report was verified in the present study. However, a rose cell line that was maintained for 2 yr in suspension culture by routine subculturing developed the capacity to grow without exogenous cytokinin. The stability of the cytokinin requirement and the basis for this altered response to cytokinin was investigated. The parental cell line, which had been maintained independently on agar-solidified medium, was subcloned and the cytokinin dependence of the subclones was determined. The subclones were found to exhibit a continuous spectrum of responses, ranging from a high degree of cytokinin dependence for growth to rapid growth upon the initial transfer to cytokinin-deficient medium. The average growth constant (K = 1 n W/Wo; Wo = initial fresh weight, W = fresh weight after growth for the stated time interval) of 30 subclones grown on medium containing 0.5 M zeatin was 3.1, with a range of 1.1 to 4.0. The average growth constant of the same subclones when grown on medium lacking a cytokinin was 1.5, with a range of 0 to 3.9. By comparison, the parental cell line exhibited growth constants of 3.5 in the presence of 0.5 M zeatin and 1.6 in the absence of exogenous cytokinin. Although the growth of some of the subclones after transfer to cytokinin-deficient medium suggested that they were cytokinin autotrophs, this was not the case because none of them grew after a second transfer to medium lacking cytokinin. Culture in medium containing cytokinin conferred upon the cells the capacity for a limited amount of growth after subsequent transfer to medium lacking cytokinin. The extent of this cytokinin-induced growth potential varied from subclone to subclone. Efforts to determine the frequency with which cytokinin autotrophs appeared in a subclone that required cytokinin suggested that it is a rare event and that the cytokinin requirement is a fairly stable phenotypic characteristic of these cells. 
4291722|A detailed protocol for the growth of Sendai virus in embryonated hen's eggs and for the preparation of inactivated Sendai virus for use in cell fusion experiments is described.
4291649|L cells were grown in spinner cultures in a defined medium consisting of Waymouth medium MB752/1 (19) supplemented with 2 mg of fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA) per ml and
4291944|This paper describes a method for examination of living organotypic cultures of CNS with Nomarski differential interference-contrast optics. Cultures grown in Maximow assemblies, which promote the best differentiation of the tissue but are optically faulty, are transferred for Nomarski observation to a simple sandwich chamber which combines the optical perfection of the usual sandwich chamber with the flexibility and safeguarding of sterility characteristic of the Maximow assembly. Thus cultures can be transferred repeatedly between their maintenance and observation chambers. In the resulting microscopic images, it is possible to visualize delicate unmyelinated fibers, myelinated cell bodies and other features which are normally impossible to demonstrate in living cultures as well as to improve the images of other structures such as large neuronal perikarya and myelinated axons.
4292878| The ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) represents a minute fraction of the cell mass of the ovary but gives rise to over 80% of human ovarian carcinomas. No experimental models for the study of human OSE exist. To characterize OSE cells in culture, expiants of ovarian surface from normal ovary of premenopausal women were grown on plastic, glass, and collagen gel in 25% fetal bovine serum/Waymouth's medium 752/1. About 25% of expiants produced epithelial outgrowths. Morphologically, these outgrowths resembled OSE in vivo and endothelial and mesothelial cells in culture, but they differed from cultured ovarian stromal, granulosa, and luteal cells. Only OSE among ovarian cell types were intensely keratin positive by immunofluorescence. Keratin also distinguished OSE cells from the keratin-negative endothelial cells. Most but not all OSE colonies tested showed 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD) activity, which was absent in peritoneal mesothelial cells. Colonies from most patients were limited to a few millimetres and became stationary within a few weeks. Changes that accompanied cessation of growth included senescence, increased keratin content, or the formation of multicellular papillary aggregates. With time, OSE cells tended to assume a fibroblast-like morphology but remained keratin positive and continued to resemble OSE by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Subcultured OSE cells persisted in a stationary keratin-positive form for many weeks. Throughout this study, all pavementlike epithelial outgrowths that were contiguous with an expiant stained for keratin; thus, such colonies can be assumed to be OSE. Conversely, fibroblast-shaped cells may represent OSE as indicated by keratin content and SEM appearance. The methods presented here permit culture of normal human OSE under conditions in which the cells exhibit morphologic plasticity, variable 17-HSD activity, and presence of keratin. 
4292208|The mutation frequency of L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells to resistance to 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine increased 6- to 14-fold after growth in ethylene oxide-sterilized polycarbonate culture flasks compared to growth in glass flasks. No comparable increase was observed when L5178Y cells were grown in identical polycarbonate culture flasks sterilized by autoclaving.
4292314|Fragments of normal human adult vagina, when explanted onto glass slides gave rise to outgrowing sheets of pure epithelium, which had microscopic morphological features in common with normal vaginal epithelium. Infrequent fibroblast contamination was observed. Proliferating epithelial cells formed multilayers of stratified squamous epithelium and demonstrated a progressive decrease in proliferative activity after 14 days. Continuous lines of epithelial cells were not obtained. Even in the absence of estrogens, transmission electron microscopy revealed evidence of keratinization of the superficial cells of the multilayer. Scanning electron microscopy of the surface of mature epithelial cells in culture revealed ultrastructural features that closely resembled those present on the surface of exfoliated cells obtained by scraping the vagina in vivo. This in vitro tissue culture model of human vaginal epithelium may provide a simple method of studying factors that influence vaginal epithelium growth, maturation and function.
4292159| Cultures of adult human skin fibroblasts were grown in the presence of the recommended antifungal dose (3 g per ml) of amphotericin B-deoxy cholate. A reduction in cell culture growth, measured as DNA content and protein content per culture, was observed. However, radioisotope incorporation into noncollagen protein and, to a lesser extent, collagen protein was enhanced. These effects were due to amphotericin B, not to deoxycholate. These observations were made under several growth conditions and indicate that cell proliferation or isotope-labeling studies in fibroblasts in the presence of amphotericin B-deoxycholate are susceptible to errors in interpretation. 
20170494|Ornithine decarboxylase activity was measured during organogenesis in rat embryos grown in utero and whole rat conceptuses maintained in an in vitro culture system. Ornithine decarboxylase levels in vivo showed a distinct peak at embryonic age 10.5 d. Despite identical morphology, protein content, crown rump length and numbers of somites cultured embryos displayed a different developmental pattern and possessed less than half the ODC activity of that in vivo. The data suggest that the normal embryonic programming of ODC activity is significantly altered by the culture environment and that further biochemical comparisons of embryos growing in utero and in vitro may be required to evaluate properly the applicability of this technique to detailed studies of teratogenesis and developmental biology.
4292596|A method for isolation of mouse liver cells by a two-step perfusion with calcium and magnesium-free Hanks' salt solution followed by a medium containing collagenase is described. Several variations of the commonly used procedure for rat liver cell isolation were quantitatively compared with respect to cell yield and viability. The optimal isolation technique involved perfusion through the hepatic portal vein and routinely produced an average of
4292444| Epithelial cells from the colon of suckling rats have been propagated in vitro. The colons were excised and cut longitudinally. The epithelial sheets were peeled off and dissociated in 0.1% trypsin solution at 25 C for 10 min. The first cell suspension was discarded and the remaining fragments trypsinized again for an additional 20 min. The dissociated cells were washed and cultured. Forty-eight hours later, several epithelial colonies consisting of closely packed polygonal cells were formed. Transmission and scanning electron microscope examination of the colonies showed numerous regularly spaced microvilli on the surface and tight junctions and desmosomes between adjacent cells. Immunocytochemical studies with antiserum prepared against the brush-border membrane of the colonic epithelium showed specific staining of the epithelial colonies. Epithelial colonies were subcultured by the penicylinder method. Although the subcultured cells retained their epithelial characteristics, the proliferative activity of the cells gradually decreased. Currently, efforts are being made to determine the optimum nutritional requirements of the primary and low-passage cultures. 
4292187| Two of the distinguishable cell classes subcultured from human amniotic fluid were examined for their capability to produce human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) as determined by radioimmunoassay. The class that predominates in most cultures used for prenatal genetic diagnosis, previously termed AF (for amniotic fluid), secretes hCG into the culture medium. Dermal fibroblasts do not, nor does another type of cultured cell from amniotic fluid, previously termed F because of a resemblance to fibroblasts. Primary AF cultures produce more hCG than do subcultures. Evidence that this hormone is intact hCG is provided by its immunoreactivity with antisera raised against the -subunit and against the intact molecule of hCG. Furthermore, a dose-response curve for hormone in culture medium is parallel to that of highly purified intact hCG. It is postulated that AF cultures are derived from fetal membranes and retain properties of trophoblast. 
4292601| A procedure for the preparation and cultivation of rat epidermal basal cells from full thickness skin resulted in greater than 99% viability and 90% plating efficiency. However, attempts to subculture monolayers of these epithelial cells grown in medium with serum as the only supplement were totally unsuccessful. When hydrocortisone and insulin were added to the medium, subcultivation of primary growth was obtained. It was demonstrated that hydrocortisone at concentrations as low as 0.1 g/ml was necessary for at least the initial attachment of the cells to the substrate - an essential step in subcultivation. Increasing concentrations of insulin (0.1 to 50 g/ml) caused the rate of proliferation and the cell density to increase, but insulin alone did not support subcultivation. 
4292777|Renal cell cultures were initiated using fresh autopsy material from two individuals with cystinosis, ages 5 and 8 yr. Cells obtained from collagenase treated autopsy material were grown in a selective kidney medium containing Coon's modified F12, 2.5% fetal bovine serum, transferrin, insulin, selenium, hydrocortisone, PGE
4291828|An in vitro model has been devised to study the differentiation and calcification of fibrocartilage from fracture calluses. Morphological and biochemical studies substantiating cartilage metaplasia in vitro are presented. A role that such a model may play in the study of cartilage calcification is suggested.
4292891|As part of a study on X chromosomes, metaphase cell synchrony and chromosome isolation methods were developed for the opossum (Didelphis virginiana) kidney epithelial cell line (OK). The cell synchrony yielded large amounts of metaphase cells using a relatively simple method in which a key feature was a calcium- and magnesium-free balanced salt wash. A neutral pH chromosome isolation method was developed for the kidney epithelial cells, because they were somewhat difficult to disrupt fully by other methods. FACS IV flow microfluorometric analysis of OK chromosomes confirms a clear difference between the sizes of opossum X chromosomes and autosomes.
4291706|"Spontaneous" cell degeneration occurred in clone C-19 of the IB-RS-2 swine kidney cell line at around the 20th passage after each cloning. An infectious cytopathogenic agent designated AgC-19 was isolated from such degenerating cultures; the agent was studied through its inoculation into cultures of the cell clone C-12 derived from the same line. AgC-19 was identified as a medium size ribonucleic acid lipovirus belonging to the Togavirus group, and it was shown to be closely related to hog cholera virus (HCV). The evidence indicated that, most likely, AgC-19 is a cytopathogenic mutant of an attenuated HCV that persistently infects the IB-RS-2 cell cultures. After extensive destruction of the cell monolayers, a few viable cells were able to restore the cultures. Such recuperated cultures were resistant to a reinfection with AgC-19. Therefore, the persistent non-cytopathogenic infection is not able to interfere with AgC-19. On the other hand, in relation to the resistant cell cultures, either AgC-19 had selected genetically resistant cells or it had induced resistance through homologous interference.
4292050|Normal and neoplastic mouse mammary epithelial cells were cultured in nutrient medium containing D-valine substituted for L-valine. Fibroblast overgrowth was prevented and epithelial cell functions and morphology were retained in cultures maintained in D-valine medium up to 2 months. A nonenzymatic technique was devised to dissociate epithelial cell monolayers. The combined use of this dissociation buffer and D-valine nutrient medium made it possible to passage serially normal and neoplastic mammary epithelial cells. Normal cells were derived from mammary glands of animals stimulated with exogenous hormones for various periods. The period of in vivo hormonal stimulation influenced the ability of normal mammary epithelial cells to attach and proliferate in primary and serially passaged cultures. A greater proportion of cells derived from glands following 2 to 4 weeks of hormonal stimulation were recovered after replating and showed higher labeling indices during serial passage than cells from unstimulated or 5- to 7-week stimulated groups.
4292733|Normal mouse mammary epithelial cells in primary culture can be passaged as viable single cells using 0.5 to 1.0 mg/ml pepsin in Hanks' salt solution. After 5 min the pepsin treatment preferentially removes fibroblasts, leaving a monolayer of purified epithelial cells that can be removed by pipetting and transferred to new culture vessels or injected into animals.
4291997|Various culture milieus were examined for their support of mouse blastocyst development. Two important variables were the time at which human cord serum was added to the medium and the concentration of amino acids. In the best medium, Eagle's Minimum Essential Medium (fortified with six times the usual amino-acid concentration plus 20% fetal bovine serum, replaced after 48 hr with human cord serum), 83% of the blastocysts shed the zona pellucida, 58% developed to the early egg cylinder stage, 42% to the advanced egg cylinder stage and 22% attained the primitive streak stage after 6 to 8 days of culture.
4292896|Several studies indicate that glutamine is a critical requirement for growth of cultured cells. The present studies describe the effect of deprivation of glucose or glutamine on mouse bone marrow cell or HL-60 cell colony formation in soft agar. The mouse bone marrow cells were induced to undergo granulocyte/macrophage type differentiation by colony-stimulating factor. Glutamine, but not glucose, was found to be an indispensable metabolite for the cloning of HL-60 cells or differentiated mouse bone marrow cells. In addition, the effect of glucose or glutamine on the rate of differentiation of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO)-induced HL-60 cells in liquid culture was studied. Glutamine was found to be superior to glucose in its ability to support the proliferation and myeloid differentiation of HL-60 cells. When an optimal concentration of DMSO was used, the rate of differentiation of induced HL-60 cells was found to be a function of the concentration of glutamine. In addition to these studies glutamine utilization and product formation was studied in induced and uninduced HL-60 cells after 60 min incubation with 1 mM initial glutamine concentration. The fractional distribution of the glutamine carbon into its metabolic products remained unchanged in induced versus uninduced HL-60 cells. However, the rate of utilization of glutamine and product formation by terminally differentiated HL-60 cells was less than the rate of utilization of glutamine by undifferentiated HL-60 cells. The data do not explain the role of glutamine in the complex process of differentiation but establish the critical requirements for glutamine, but not glucose, in myelopoiesis.
4291742|A new tissue culture cell line (Calg-ARLC) has been established from an explant culture of adult rabbit lung. The Calg-ARLC line has been characterized with respect to morphology, chromosome constitution, tissue culture requirements, proliferative capacity, cell cycle, attainable synchrony, radioisotopically labeled precursor incorporation into nucleic acids and protein, and radioisotope sensitivity. The cells are fibroblast-like in appearance with a stabilized heteroploid chromosomal modal number of 35. They grow exponentially from high split ratios in several commercially available defined media with a generation time of 12 hr and are easily synchronized. Although sensitive to some isotopically labeled precursors, high specific activity nucleic acids have been isolated. The ARLC line is especially useful for the isolation of high specific activity nucleic acids and proteins of rabbit origin. The Calg-ARLC line should be invaluable in the fractionation of reiterated DNA sequences since no very rapidly reassociating DNA sequences such as those found in mouse are evident.
4292252|Cells that possess the morphology and collagen synthetic capacity of fibroblasts were recovered by bronchofiberscopic subsegmental pulmonary lavage from patients with pulmonary fibrosis, from patients with miscellaneous nonfibrotic lung diseases and from healthy volunteers. Lavage cells were placed in tissue culture, observed for 2 to 6 weeks, and compared with human lavage pulmonary alveolar macrophages (PAM), WI-38 and IMR-90 human fetal lung fibroblasts, and adult lung tissue fibroblasts (CLAC-76). Lavage fibroblasts (LF) were identified as proliferating clones in monolayers of nonproliferating PAM and could be subcultured repeatedly. Fibroblasts were propagated from 28 of the 92 lavage specimens cultured. Time-lapse cinematography showed similar distributions of interdivision times for LF, CLAC-76 and WI-38, but the LF and CLAC-76 lines had slower mean migration rates than the fetal line. Light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy of LF showed attenuated spindle-shaped cells with interdigitating filopodia, flat surfaces with few microvilli, and containing numerous cytoplasmic polyribosomes and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Extracellular fibrils with the appearance of collagen were seen. Collagen synthesis by LF was measured as 3.9% to 4.9% of the cell-associated protein sensitive to bacterial collagenase. This protein was rich in hydroxyproline, and had an electrophoretic migration pattern identical to known collagen. LF did not contain lysozyme although this enzyme was abundant in fresh and 1-week cultured PAM. Thus LF were similar to human fetal and adult lung tissue fibroblasts in their morphology, tissue culture characteristics, constitutive enzymes and collagen synthetic properties but were distinctly different from PAM.
20170493| Optimum conditions for plant regeneration from cultured leaf explants were ascertained for eight different wild tomato (Lycopersicon) species and two closely related Solanum species. Of the eight media tested, basal MS medium supplemented with 5 M of the cytokinin 6-benzyladenine proved to be the best overall regeneration medium. Regeneration frequency varied significantly between species with maximum frequency of regeneration observed for L. chilense, L. peruvianum, and S. lycopersicoides. 
4291576|Transhydrogenase (NADH:NADP oxidoreductase, EC 1.6.1.1) activity has been demonstrated in mammalian cells cultured in vitro. Levels of activity of this enzyme were 10- to 20-fold higher in H4-II-E-C3 cells derived from the minimal deviation Reuber hepatoma than in three other cell lines tested. H4 cells lack the ability to reduce nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate by the glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase reaction. This raised the question of the physiological significance of transhydrogenase in these cells.
4291586|The effect of low dosages of
4292600|Hepatocytes were isolated from liver biopsies of rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, dogs, and humans. The procedure is based on cannulation of large veins in the cut face of the biopsy, followed by collagenase perfusion. Yields averaged
20170356|Early monolayer outgrowths of cells from human cutaneous malignant melanomas mostly derived from metastatic lesions were examined microscopically. Cells resembling the two dendritic types of melanoma previously described in the established lines could readily be recognized. Of 22 specimens, 14 consisted of cells with a triangular dendritic morphology, four had both triangular and elongated dendritic morphology, and one had a cuboidal morphology. The remaining three specimens showed only fibroblastic outgrowths. It is concluded that cells with a triangular dendritic morphology are either the most common type of the secondary cutaneous melanomas, or alternately the most adaptable to the present culture conditions. An association of a more favorable prognosis with the homogeneous triangular dendritic cell type is noted.
4292799|In lining epithelium of mammals certain recurrent architectural patterns are recognized that may be critical for epithelial organization in culture. Among these structural imperatives are three dimensional growth, restricted migration of cells, histophysiologic gradients, and continuity of epithelial membranes. Histophysiologic gradient culture procedures have been developed to comply with requirements suggested by normal tissue architecture. In a small chamber, 5 mm diam, epithelium grows attached to a thin permeable transparent collagen membrane or sandwiched between two apposed collagen membranes. The chamber is held in a plastic capsule so that metabolic exchange is limited to substances that diffuse across the collagen membranes to the adherent basal layer of epithelium. On a single membrane after 2 wk of growth, normal urothelium appears as a diffusely hypercellular urothelium, 6 to 10 cells thick. As the culture period is extended by 2 or more wk, multiple nodules of urothelium extend from the basal surface into the subepithelial space between the epithelium and the collagen membrane. Normal bladder, cultured between two apposed collagen membranes, gives rise in a few days to confluent epithelium that contains many extracellular cysts. Through an apparent merging of cysts, after 2 wk the urothelium appears as a highly organoid structure, a flattened cyst lined by completely stratified polarized urothelium. Such microbladders consist of a stratified epithelium without interruption of continuity. With histophysiologic gradient culture, processes in carcinoma and precursor lesions are accessible to study at the level of tissue organization.
4292212|Two major types of cells can be cultured from early lactation human milks: a colony-forming epithelial cell and an adherent nondividing cell referred to as a foam cell. The epithelial cells show a positive reaction with a specific antiserum reactive against membrane components of the milk fat globule, whereas the foam cells do not. The nondividing foam cells are phagocytic and can be killed by silica particles; they produce lysozyme, are resistant to trypsinization, and have Fc receptors. These properties, together with the lack of reaction with antiserum to the milk fat globule membrane, suggest that the foam cells are not terminally differentiated epithelial cells, but tissue macrophages.
4292228|Two stable epithelial-like cell lines, the pig kidney strain (
4291881| We have compared several methods for reducing calcium and magnesium concentrations in tissue culture medium, with the objective of producing selective deficiency effects on the growth of mouse (L5178Y) and human (P1R) lymphoblasts. In experiments in which calcium- and magnesium-"free" McCoy's medium was supplemented with 15% horse or fetal calf serum, enough calcium and magnesium was provided by serum to support normal lymphoblast growth rate. Either dialysis or chelating-resin treatment of horse or fetal calf serum reduced calcium and magnesium contents approximately 100-fold. Use of dialyzed sera resulted in reduced growth rate, although in most cases the reduction in growth could be attributed to other effects of dialysis on serum, inasmuch as growth in those experiments was not restored to normal by the addition of calcium and magnesium to the medium. In contrast, the reduction of lymphoblast growth rate that occurred when resin-treated serum was used was always attributable to removal of calcium and magnesium, as normal growth always occurred in cultures to which calcium and magnesium were added. To demonstrate a growth-inhibiting effect on either mouse or human lymphoblasts by severe reduction of either calcium or magnesium in the presence of normal amounts of the alternative cation, it was necessary to (a) expose McCoy's Ca-Mg-"free" medium to chelating-resin to reduce further the residual cation concentrations; (b) wash cells from stock cultures in a medium devoid of calcium and magnesium prior to inoculation into experimental cultures; (c) reduce the proportion of serum in the final medium from 15 to 5%; and (d) add 100 M EGTA to cultures. Under these conditions, growth of both cell types was completely abolished in the presence of normal magnesium but in the absence of added calcium, and markedly reduced in the presence of normal calcium but in the absence of magnesium. These modifications did not compromise growth in cultures containing normal concentrations of both ions. 
4292838|A human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line (FOCUS-Friendship of China and United States) was derived from a patient with primary hepatocellular carcinoma. This cell line has been in continuous culture over an 18-mo period. The morphological and ultrastructural features of FOCUS are consistent with its neoplastic hepatocellular origin. FOCUS cells contain aspartate aminotransferase and glucose-6-phosphatase activity. In addition,
4292610|The replication of seven arboviruses in a cell line (TRA-171) derived from a nonhematophagous mosquito was studied. Four serotypes of laboratory adapted and three serotypes of unadapted dengue viruses replicated in the TRA-171 cell line, inducing syncytia. The sensitivity of TRA-171 cells to dengue virus infection was comparable to that of Aedes albopictus or A. pseudoscutellaris cells. Yellow fever, St. Louis encephalitis, and vesicular stomatitis viruses also replicated. All four serotypes of dengue viruses could be plaque assayed with TRA-171 cell cultures.
4292133|Trypsin, chymotrypsin and elastase are the pancreatic enzymes required for neonatal rat heart tissue disaggregation. We have previously developed a procedure for the isolation of a mixture of these three enzymes from commercial crude-trypsin samples. Toxic materials present in certain crude-trypsin samples are removed during purification. An evaluation of this mixture was conducted for its ability to disaggregate neonatal rat heart tissue for cell culture. Large numbers of cells were released with minimal cellular damage as determined by their ability to survive and function in culture. Rat lung and kidney tissue also were disaggregated successfully and cultured with this preparation. It is apparent that this enzyme preparation has a potential for disaggregating a wide variety of tissues.
4292870|The effect of fructose as a substitute for glucose in cell culture media was investigated in human skin fibroblast and liver cell cultures. Cells were grown for between 2 and 10 days in identical flasks in four different media, containing
4292802|Sequential changes in epithelial cells of collagenase-dissociated rat ventral prostate were studied by thin-section and freeze-fracture electron microscopy. Epithelial cells did not attach to the substrate for 48 h. Pelleted cells obtained 1, 24, and 48 h after dissociation were assigned to three categories depending on morphology and cellular associations. (a) Solitary epithelial cells degenerated as determined by extensive vacuolization in the cytoplasm and aggregation of intramembranous particles (IMP). (b) Epithelial clusters consisted of a homogeneous population of well-maintained, closely packed cells. Aggregation of IMP was minimal. Tight junctions that formed between cells at the periphery of the clusters appeared normal and provided an effective permeability barrier demonstrated by the exclusion of ruthenium red tracer. (c) Tissue fragments were comprised of varying combinations of epithelial, endothelial, and smooth muscle cells as well as fibroblasts and erythrocytes. Maintenance of tissue fragments was variable. Plasma membranes often displayed aggregated IMP and proliferated tight junctional strands. An effective permeability barrier was absent. After the 48 h "latent period," epithelial cells in the clusters lost interdependence, disassociated from one another, and attached to the substrate. These isolated cells, which did not display aggregated IMP, retained the ability to form an effective permeability barrier upon reaching confluency. During the first 48 h, epithelial cells did not tolerate solitary existence, yet as participants in clusters they were well maintained. After this interval, they no longer required interactions with neighbors in order to survive. These results indicate that under our experimental conditions, an adaptation period is required by prostatic epithelial cells. The enhanced quality of maintenance associated with epithelial clusters suggests that control over the internal microenvironment, provided by a tight junctional barrier, may be important during the initial period of adaptation in vitro.
4291796|The influence of osmotic pressure on the growth rate of a cell line (IMC-HZ-1) from a moth, Heliothis zea, was studied. The cells grew at approximately the same rate in media ranging from 290 to 360 mOSM per kg. On either side of these osmolalities the growth rate fell off considerably. The osmotic pressure tolerances of the cells were similar to those reported for other animal cells. Upon transfer to media of higher osmolality, the moth cells effected further increases in the osmolality of the medium. The relationship between the logarithm of the change in osmolality effected per cell and the initial osmolality of the medium was linear.
4291878| The osmotic pressure of the medium in stoppered, roller tube cultures increased by an average of 17  6 mOsM per kg of water during 3 days of incubation at 37C irrespective of the initial osmolality (280 to 340 mOsM) of the medium. The increase was apparently due to evaporation of water from the medium into the gas phase of the roller tube. This observation led us to study the effect of osmotic pressure on neuronal differentiation in cultures of chick embryo spinal cords. Spinal cords were excised from stage 16 to 19 (2.5 to 3 days of incubation) or stage 36 (10 days) chick embryos and cultured as fragments on collagen-coated cover slips in roller tubes at 37C for 21 days. The medium was adjusted to 283  3, 300  3, 323  3, or 342  3 mOsM per kg with saturated choline chloride solution or distilled water. The results indicate that the nature of the neuronal differentiation in vitro was not altered by the osmolality of the medium. The proportion of cultures containing neurons was influenced by osmolality. In the 300  3 mOsM medium, 75% of all the stage 36 cultures initiated contained neurons, and 52% of all the stage 16 to 19 cultures initiated contained neurons. In the other media the proportion of neuron-containing cultures was lower. Two conclusions were drawn. Neurogenesis in cultures of embryonic chick spinal cord fragments is sensitive to an increase in the initial osmotic pressure of the medium as small as 20 mOsM above the optimal 300 mOsM. As a result of the 17 mOsM increase which always occurred in the culture medium between feedings, the optimum osmolality for neuronal development is in fact a range, from 300 to 317 mOsM. 
4292677|A clonal cell line has been established from the epididymal fat pad of the C57 BL/6J + /? mouse. This line, designated HGFu, is aneuploid and exhibits both morphological and biochemical properties characteristic of mature adipocytes. Adipose conversion begins after confluence and is accompanied by (a) an early emergence of lipoprotein lipase, (b) an increase in the incorporation of
4291867|An in vitro colony formation assay for the evaluation of in vivo brain tumor therapy has been developed. When plated, disaggregated cells derived from solid tumors proliferated to form relatively homogeneous colonies after a latency period of 2 to 6 days. Increasing concentrations of fetal calf serum enhanced colony-forming efficiency (CFE) with a plateau between 7 and 16%. Supplementation with either irradiated feeder cells (10
4292477|A vessel consisting of a Teflon well former, metal base plate, rubber gasket, and variable growth surface has been constructed. It is nontoxic, autoclavable, and reusable. It provides for ready access into the growth chamber, plus an optically clear lower surface for improved microscopic resolution. The vessel has been used successfully with several different eucaryotic and procaryotic cell systems. Morphology of cells and yields (as measured by total protein and ATP) are comparable to those noted with other vessels. This Chamber/Dish can accommodate almost any type of growth substrate in the form of films or sheets. It appears to have widespread application for the growth of cells and explants in vitro.
4291580| Growth rates of RTG-2 cells were determined on cultures seeded at 12,500, 25,000, 50,000, 100,000, and 200,000 cells per ml and incubated at temperatures 5C through 25C. The optimum growth rate was found to be about 20C at all seeding levels. Population doubling times were determined at each temperature-the shortest being 2 days at 20C. 
4291869|Articular cartilage from 5-month-old calves survived for 4 weeks in organ culture in a chemically defined medium. The viability was assessed by calculating the labeling frequency of chondrocytes on autoradiograms after
4291765|Parenchymal cells from adult rat liver which had been fully regenerated were isolated and cultured in nonproliferating monolayers in vitro. The optimum conditions for attachment of these cells to Falcon plastic dishes were determined. When approximately
20170536| Dispersed cells from both fresh and cryopreserved human insulinoma have been maintained in cell culture. Initial yield of viable cells was 50% for fresh and 25% for cryopreserved tissue. Viability of cells in culture was documented by increasing numbers of cells (doubling time approximately 5 d initially and 2 d at the sixth subculture for both fresh and cryopreserved tissue) and continued release of insulin over time (approximately 100 ng/ml per 10 cells at 10 d and 175 ng/ml per 10 cells at 30 d of culture for both fresh and cryopreserved tissue). Evidence that cells growing in culture were beta cells was provided by: (a) recovery of intracellular and extracellular immunoreactive insulin (IRI), (b) electron microscopic morphology, and (c) immunohistochemical staining. Cells from fresh insulinoma incubated with increasing concentrations of extracellular glucose released increasing amounts of IRI up to approximately 15 mM glucose, which paralleled changes in plasma insulin obtained during a preoperative glucose tolerance test. 
4292873|The induction and decay of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) by insulin and asparagine in cultures of H4-II-EC3 (H35) hepatoma cells was studied in a modified Waymouth medium in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS) and in serum-free media. The insulin response was enhanced by the presence of asparagine although the effect of asparagine was not so much on the initial increase as it was on a slowing of the decline after the maximum was reached at 6 to 8 h after the supplements were added together with fresh medium. In all cases the initial ODC activity was zero at zero time for addition of media and supplements, and, after reaching the maximum, activity declined to near zero by 24 h. Fetal bovine serum gave induction that followed a similar time course but was inferior to the combintion of insulin plus asparagine and, in fact, FBS inhibited the latter response. Putrescine (the product formed from ornithine by ODC), at 10
4292234| Microvessels isolated from mouse forebrain were used as the source material for the derivation of cerebral vascular endothelium and smooth-muscle cells in culture. The microvessels were isolated by a mechanical dispersion and filtration technique, and were maintained in vitro as organoid cultures. A microvessel classification system was developed and proved to be useful as a tool in monitoring culture progress and in predicting the type(s) of microvessel(s) that would give rise to migrating and/or proliferating cells. The isolated cerebral microvessels were heterogeneous in diameter, size of individual vascular isolate, and proliferative potential. The isolated microvessels ranged in diameter from 4 m to 25 m and in size from a single microvascular segment to a large multibranched plexus with mural cells. The initial viability, determined by erythrosin B exclusion, was approximately 50% on a per cell basis. All microvessel classes had proliferative potential although the rate and extent of proliferation were both microvessel class- and density-dependent. The smaller microvessels gave rise to endothelial cells, whereas the large microvessels gave rise to endothelial and smooth-muscle cells. The viability and progress of a microvessel toward derived cell proliferation seemed to be directly proportional to the number of mural cells present. 
4292169|The genetic background and morphology of spontaneous mosaic hermaphrodites of mice have been described.
20170409| Five primary human pituitary tumor cell cultures were initiated from adenoma fragments obtained from patients with prolactin-secreting adenomas and acromegaly. Functional cell cultures were maintained and propagated in monolayer or suspension culture for up to 9 months. Optimal cell viability and growth were achieved using Ham's F10 medium enriched with 20% fetal bovine serum, although cells from a patient with acromegaly also grew in serum-free, defined, hormone-containing medium. Bromocriptine (100 ng/ml) did not alter the growth curve of replicating cells derived from a patient with acromegaly. These cells initially secreted 5.5 g human growth hormone/10 cells, and hormone production diminished after 6 wk. Prolactin secretion by cells derived from prolactinomas (0.5 to 1.3 g/10 cells/24 h) was stimulated by thyrotropin-releasing hormone (10 ng/ml) in two of the cultures. Both dopamine (10 ng/ml) and nickel chloride (1 mM) suppressed PRL secretion. These studies demonstrate that responsive human pituitary tumor cell cultures can be initiated and maintained. 
4291628|Bovine peripheral blood lymphocytes cannot adequately and reproducibly be separated from granulocytes when any of the many standard techniques for lymphocyte purification are used. However, by means of a simple column using the cotton fibers cut from ordinary cheesecloth, bovine lymphocytes have been purified in quantities sufficient for large scale in vitro analysis. The unique column design has broad application in isolating lymphocytes of other animal species.
4292116|Five mycoplasma species most frequently isolated from cell cultures were tested for the presence of endogenous hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl-transferase (HPRT) activity. All of the five, cultured in cell-free medium, contained variable but significant levels of HPRT. Two strains of M. hyorhinis exhibited a 13-fold difference in their specific HPRT activity. When infected with any of these mycoplasma species, HPRT-deficient mouse cell mutants rapidly acquired a cell-associated HPRT activity; however, the cells remained sensitive to HAT medium and resistant to 6-thioguanine. On the other hand, normal HPRT-positive cells deliberately infected with the mycoplasmas uniformly became sensitive to HAT medium. The apparent transfer of mycoplasma-specific HPRT activity to HPRT-deficient cells may be used as a sensitive measure of cell infection by these mycoplasma strains. The HPRT activities of mycoplasmas share several common properties so that they can be distinguished easily from the mammalian HPRT isozymes. Compared to the animal cell enzymes, the mycoplasmal HPRT activities are less heat stable, more strongly inhibited by 6-thioguanine, and in general migrate more slowly in electrophoresis at a neutral pH.
20170264|A fine structural study was made of cells from the epithelioid MCF-8/5-2A cell line derived from a MuMTV-free, D2 transplantable hyperplastic outgrowth. Electron microscopy shows the cells to be truly epithelial with many cell-to-cell junctions and microvilli. The cells are similar in many respects to normal mouse mammary gland and some of the conventional mammary tumor derived cell lines. This study supports previous observations of the absence of MuMTV in MCF-8 within the limits of morphological detection, and demonstrates the presence of numerous virus particles within, or budding into, cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear envelope. These intracisternal A particles have not been previously described in such abundance in mammary tumor tissue culture cells.
20170350|A technique for initiating and propagating epithelial cell cultures of human renal cell cancer and adjacent nontumor kidney is described. Seventy-five percent of the tumors and 79% of the adjacent kidney specimens cultured with this method have shown initial outgrowth and have been subcultured at least once. Two renal cell cancer cultures initiated by this method have now been in continuous culture more than 6 months, have been subcultured 27 and 18 times, and now appear to be stable lines. The ability to establish long-term in vitro cultures of human renal cell cancers will facilitate studies concerning the immunoreactivity, cholesterol metabolism, the isolation of renal-cell-cancer-specific antigens, and in vitro chemotherapy testing and will further our understanding of the basic biology of human renal cell cancer.
4292072|The lungs of 12 mice, half of which were exposed to continuous 0.5 ppm nitrogen dioxide for 3 weeks, were explanted in culture, and the instances of macrophage congregation were quantitated according to numbers of target cells involved, categories of congregation from three to 11 or more, numbers of macrophages participating in each category for the total cultures, and the influence of delaying explantation for 24 and 96 hr. A total of 9042 macrophages and 2140 epithelial and spindle target cells were counted in the outgrowths from 306 explants. The incidence of macrophage congregation (or numbers of target cells) was greater for the cultures from the
4292694|A human diploid cell line of choroid origin was isolated from the retrouveal portion of an enucleated eye and designated HC. After 10 passages, when the proliferative capacity of HC cells decreased, they were infected and transformed by Simian Virus 40 (SV40). A proliferating long-term cultured cell line designated HC/SV40 was established and it has been maintained as monolayer for more than 100 passages so far. The two cell lines, HC and HC/SV40, were compared for growth characteristics, capacity to form colonies in soft agar, presence of nuclear T-antigen, and ultrastructure. Cytogenetic analysis was also performed to determine the presence of chromosomal aberrations due to the permanent viral transformation of the cell line. The results indicate that HC/SV40 should be considered the transformed counterparts of HC cells because they are morphologically similar to the latter but can grow in soft agar, possess T-antigen, and show a pattern of karyotypic changes similar to that induced by SV40 in human fibroblasts. The choroid origin of HC and HC/SV40 cell lines was confirmed by the presence, in their cytoplasm, of typical electron dense granules. Their neural origin will make these cell lines very useful for neuropharmacological and differentiation studies.
4292609|A model in vitro rat liver parenchymal cellular toxicity system employing cells obtained by the in situ collagenase perfusion technique has been developed to detect potential liver toxicants. The initial evaluation of this test system was accomplished using cadmium chloride, chromium chloride, cobalt chloride, mercuric chloride, nickelous chloride, sodium arsenite, sodium selenite, and ammonium vanadate. Linear regression analysis of the dose response curves was used to determine the effective concentration at which the viability was reduced to 50% (EC
4292185|Exposure of H-4-IIE-C3 rat hepatoma cell cultures to the synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone, results in an inhibition of cellular proliferation which is not the result of steroid-induced cytolysis. A significant decrease in both the rate of DNA synthesis and DNA content precedes a detectable effect on cell number. Continuous culture of H-4-IIE-C3 cells in medium containing 10
4291885|The effects of different partial pressures of oxygen on the growth of hamster embryo and hamster tumor cells in culture were studied. Hamster embryo cells grown in medium with calf serum became established as continuous cell lines in 1 to 3% O
4292368|Serum factors determine the extracellular requirement for both Ca
4291836|Early chromatin condensation in interphase cells (G
4291995| The optimal composition of a medium for tissue culture of cells from the leafhopper Agallia constricta was estimated from experiments in which the rate of growth of the cells was measured at different concentrations of each component. Wound tumor virus and the constricta variety of potato yellow dwarf virus multiply in A. constricta when these viruses are transmitted from one plant to another. Differences were detected in the suitability of different batches of fetal bovine serum (after heating at 56C for 30 min) and histidine as components in the tissue culture medium. Without heat treatment even the best fetal bovine serum was not suitable. Estimated optimal concentrations of fetal bovine serum, histidine, salts, dextrose, lactalbumin hydrolysate and yeast autolysate were determined. Fungizone (amphotericin B) at 50 or 100 mg per l caused harmful effects; effective concentrations of penicillin, neomycin and streptomycin did not. Combinations of histidine-HCl and histidine (free-base) made it possible to prepare buffered medium at any pH between 6.0 and 7.0. Optimal growth of A. constricta cells occurred at pH 6.43, and of Aceratagallia sanguinolenta at pH 6.30. Osmotic pressures of the new medium between 360 and 405 mOSM were better than lower osmotic pressures. The new medium was still suitable for growth of the cells after storage for 6 months at 4C. 
4292728|When comparison was made of directions given for three salt solutions commonly used in cell culture preparations and identified as Dulbecco's, Earle's, and Hanks', variations in composition were found. Some significantly alter the suitability of the materials for the intended use. Other differences may have less effect. This brief review reveals a tendency among researchers to follow procedures obtained from colleagues for the preparation of laboratory reagents and media, to cite the original publication rather than their colleagues' work as the source of the information, and to fail to compare the two for differences. Some failures in cell culture propagation may be attributed to similar instances with other published but incorrectly cited work. Tables are provided that facilitate comparison of the correct original formulations with variants from selected published sources.
4292661|Antibody coupled erythrocytes in an agar overlay were used as a simple, nontoxic technique for the isolation of cell clones secreting proteins and hormones in vitro. The adaptation of the reverse hemolytic plaque assay was developed to provide a rapid, sensitive, and specific method for the screening of any antigen secreting cell without the need of prior isolation. This technique promises to be of use in the characterization and cloning of cells growing in mixed culture.
4292340|Methods have been developed for isolating and maintaining differentiated rat exorbital lacrimal, parotid, and pancreatic acinar cells for up to 1 month in culture. The dissociated cells retained their differentiated morphology when cultured as suspension cultures at
4292683|Adult human prostatic epithelium was cultured in a defined medium consisting of RPMI 1640 supplemented with transferrin, insulin, epidermal growth factor, dexamethasone, and vitamin A. In the presence of insulin, stabilized with zinc, maximum epithelial multiplication was obtained at an insulin concentration of 0.03 to 0.1 U /ml, corresponding to a zinc concentration of
4292346|Many conclusions concerning cell culture mycoplasmas are based on data from studies in fibroblast cultures. Some conclusions may not be valid in other types of differentiated cell cultures. M. salivarium was isolated from 35 human lymphocyte cultures (HLC), 34 from the same laboratory. The organism grew to more than 10
20170385| Primary monolayer cell cultures of adult rat hepatocytes underwent change in morphology and substantial cell loss between 1 and 3 days postinoculation. Dexamethasone-supplementation (1 M) of the culture medium maintained the polygonal epithelial morphology of the hepatocytes and increased longevity such that over 80% of the cells survived for 3 days and at least 30% for 8 or 9 days. This enhancement of survival was obtained up to 48 hr postinoculation, but the earlier the time of dexamethasone supplementation the greater the effect. Removal of dexamethasone resulted in a decrease in longevity. The positive effect of dexamethasone on longevity was observed following dexamethasone replacement of insulin in supplemented cultures, but the combination of insulin and dexamethasone resulted in poorer survival than with dexamethasone alone. The results are interpreted to indicate that dexamethasone provided a requirement of the in vitro environment for survival and suggest that elaboration of a complex medium is required to maintain hepatocytes in culture. 
4292580| To estimate worker exposures to, and environmental contamination from, test chemicals and organic solvents used in an in vitro assay to assess the carcinogenic potential of chemicals, sodium fluorescein, a noncarcinogenic fluorescent material, was dissolved in tissue culture medium used to maintain early passage hamster embryo cells. Personal and environmental samples were taken over a 14-d period. The assay was performed according to standard procedures in a ventilated glove box or laminar flow safety cabinet. Considerably more than 99% of the chemical contamination found was recovered from the interiors of the glove box and hood and from disposable equipment. Contamination outside the containment units (less than 1 g) resulted from intralaboratory transport of chemicals, treated cultures, and contaminated equipment. We conclude that the standard operating practices and procedures provided adequate safeguards for personnel and the environment. 
4292233|Studies of acid phosphates produced by cell lines MA 160 and EB 33 demonstrated immunochemically their prostatic origin. MA 160 and EB 33, rather than being HeLa contaminants, may be hybrids of prostatic epithelial and HeLa cells or true prostatic cell lines with chromosomal changes common to all long-term cultivated cell lines.
4291652|Isozyme patterns of the enzymes of ATP-hexose phosphotransferase, aldolase, and pyruvate kinase have been examined in a culture of cells derived from an adult rat liver. Normal adult liver characteristically contains glucokinase, aldolase B, and pyruvate kinase I isozymes. In contrast to this, the isozymes present in the cell line were found to be hexokinase, aldolase A, and pyruvate kinase III. Thus cells from an adult liver when taken into culture resemble fetal liver rather than adult liver. Attempts to induce in these cells the isozymes of ATP-hexose phosphotransferase and pyruvate kinase characteristic of the adult liver have been unsuccessful. The culture conditions were found to affect the nature of the kinetic properties of the pyruvate kinase isozyme in these cells. Cells maintained in the absence of glucose gave a sigmoidal-shaped substrate velocity curve for phosphoenolpyruvate, with a K
4292834|Cell lines corresponding to various cell lineages of the mouse embryo have been isolated from murine teratocarcinomas. Embryonal carcinoma cell lines are developmentally equivalent to the embryonic ectoderm or inner cell mass. Most of these cell lines have a modal chromosome number equal or close to 40, the normal mouse complement. However, cell lines corresponding to more advanced cell lineages (e.g., endoderm) are tetraploid or hypotetraploid and display multiple chromosomal rearrangements. This paper describes the isolation of a near-diploid differentiated cell line (LT-D) from an LT teratocarcinoma. The modal chromosome number of LT-D is 40, and this number is stable during at least 12 mo of continuous culture. LT-D cells are morphologically distinct from embryonal carcinoma cells and no longer express the SSEA-1 cell surface antigen or high alkaline phosphatase activity characteristic of embryonal carcinoma cells. LT-D cells can be induced to fuse into structures resembling myotubes. The formation of these structures is accompanied by expression of the muscle-specific isozyme of creatine phosphokinase and desmin, a muscle-specific component of intermediate filaments. Lastly, LT-D cells do not form tumors in syngenetic mice.
20170303| Two thin film culture systems, the controlled environment steady state system (SS) and the rocker tube configuration of that system (RT), were used to identify some of the conditions that appear to maintain morphologic and functional characteristics of cells of human bone marrow explants in vitro. The systems configuration assured continual gassing, control and easy monitoring of the cultures. Cytocentrifuge preparations of media of specimens cultured in RT disclosed, though in decreasing numbers, various hematopoietic cells for periods exceeding one month. Hematopoietic cells shed from specimens cultured in the SS system were retained in the culture tubes; cells of the myelocytic series predominated for the first 2 weeks while an increasing number of monocytes and macrophages appeared in the media of older cultures. Histologic examination of cultured explants disclosed preservation of the marrow architecture and the persistence of hematopoietic cells. Specimens cultured in RT tubes tended to be less cellular than similar cultures placed in dialysis bags or as cultured in the SS system. Immunoglobulins (Ig) were released into the culture media at a constant rate throughout the period of culture. Specimens that were cultured at a controlled pH of 7.4 released 2 to more than 4 times as much Ig as similar specimens maintained at a pH level of 7.1. There were no definitive differences in Ig levels in the cultures maintained at comparable pH levels and overlaid with various CO concentrations, i.e. 2%, 5%, 10%; similarly, no differences in Ig levels were found in specimens cultured in media containing fetal bovine sera as opposed to horse sera. 
4291585|A flat-face embedding method which facilitates both light microscopic and electron microscopic observations of monolayer cultures has been described. The method involves the use of an industrial plastic "Melinex" as the substratum for Leighton tube cultures. The growth patterns of rat embryo muscle cultures and muscle tumor cultures on Melinex coverslips have been shown to be comparable to those of corresponding cultures grown on glass coverslips. Melinex sheets, which may easily be substituted as substratum for any stationary culture, offer the added advantage of preserving the undisrupted architecture of monolayer cultures for electron microscopic studies.
4292399|Eagle's basal medium, modified to contain essential amino acids at the concentrations optimal for mouse blastocyst hatching, attachment, and outgrowth, supported in vitro development of the mouse blastocyst better than other tissue culture media tested. This medium was improved for growth and differentiation of the inner cell mass by doubling the concentration of amino acids and glucose and by adding uridine (10
4292226|We have tested the sensitivity of a cloned rat hepatocyte line, RL-PR-C, to aflatoxin B
4291589|The surface membrane of an animal cell is proposed to be the target for regulation of cell division. It undergoes regular periodic changes during the cell division cycle. Interference with these changes by cell-cell surface contacts is proposed to prevent the normal progression of events, and thereby can change the metabolic pattern so as to put the cells into a resting state. Through external influences, cells can escape from this resting state; when this occurs surface changes are the earliest ones observed. Cells that have become malignant, particularly after virus infection, show marked changes in their surface properties. Infection is proposed to prevent the surface changes that lead to the resting state. Recent evidence from in vitro experiments is summarized, and some speculations are made on the connection between the surface and processes of division such as nuclear replication.
