30002420|Small-scale magmatic layers in a minor ultramafic intrusion at Lough Fee, NW Connemara, Ireland, exhibit superb examples of primary adcumulate textures. Two of these monomineralic layers are quantitatively analysed to establish their degree of textural equilibrium. A series of apparent dihedral angles is measured from threegrain junctions, and cumulative frequency curves are plotted for each layer. The curves are compared to theoretical curves for equilibrated and unequilibrated rocks to determine the degree of textural equilibrium of each layer. The results show apparent dihedral angle values that closely approximate those of a system in local textural equilibrium. The importance of adcumulus growth in the development of magmatic layering and the implications of this process for layer formation are briefly discussed with reference to the tectonic setting of the intrusion, and it is concluded that magmatic layering may have developed in a syn-tectonic intrusion.
30002289|Four stromatoporoid species: Pachystylostroma sp., Petridiostroma cf. simplex (Nestor, 1966), Gerronostroma juveneforme sp. nov. and Eostromatopora ringerikensis (Mori, 1978), are described from the Uggool Limestone Member of the Cloonnamna Formation (upper Llandovery) in the Charlestown Inlier, Co. Mayo, Ireland. A new genus Eostromatopora is established with the type species Stromatopora impexa Nestor, 1966. The fauna described here is closely related to the Telychian stromatoporoid faunas from the Vik Formation of the Oslo area and from the Baillarge Formation of north-western Baffin Island, Canada. Irish Journal of Earth Sciences 17 (1998/9), 115-121.
42909768|This paper describes glacigenic landforms and sediments occurring within the Dungiven Basin, north-west Ireland. It relates them to the pattern and timing of deglacial events within several sectors of the late Midlandian British-Irish Ice Sheet. The distribution, association and sedimentology of relatively well-preserved relict deglacial landforms are used in combination to reconstruct the nature and pattern of dglaciation in the region. An intricate pattern of ice-marginal and topographic control on the formation of glacially fed water bodies within the basin occurred during glacial down-and back-wastage toward icesource areas. The dominant ice masses in the basin retreated west and south-west toward the south Donegal Highlands and Omagh Basin regions (Derrynaflaw Morphostratigraphic Unit). During evacuation of the Dungiven Basin by these ice fronts, the easternmost valleys of the northern Sperrin Mountains were deglaciating south-eastward, in the direction of the Lough Neagh Basin (Banagher Morphostratigraphic Unit). A proglacial lake in the mid-to lower Roe Valley during initial stages of the Derrynaflaw Unit was caused by the impoundment of proglacial drainage by a lobe of Donegal ice occupying the Foyle Basin. Subsequent glaciolacustrine environments in the valleys of the northern Sperrin Mountains were created by the interaction of retreating ice margins with local topography. Local watersheds provided control of water-body elevations as ice margins retreated south and west toward ice-dispersal centres.
30002398|A combined magnetic and VLF-EM survey of the Tullyroan sub-basin, situated between Moy and Portadown, Co. Armagh, has confirmed the position of the basin margins. In addition, splays of the Drumkee Fault are resolved. Partly by analogy with other known basins, the Tullyroan sub-basin is suggested to form a shallow, northerly-plunging syncline. Lignite may occur at shallow depth in both the south-east and north-west of the basin.
30002210|The genesis and environment of deposition of an unusual Silurian limestone from the Dingle Peninsula are suggested. A shallow-water environment, populated almost exclusively by benthic organisms, was periodically influenced by volcanic products. Synsedimentary tectonics, volcanism, and current activity were the main factors controlling sedimentation.
30002470|The Upper Palaeozoic succession for the Lyons Hill ("Wheatfield") area has been determined from a series of boreholes and extends, with minor gaps, from the Silurian and "Old Red Sandstone" into the Lower Carboniferous. A new formation, the Lyons Hill Dolomite Formation is proposed, which together with the Waulsortian Limestones above, replaces the Lower Limestone of Jukes and Du Noyer (1860). The Lyons Hill Formation is dominated by dolomitised shallow marine carbonates displaying cyclic shallowing-up sequences. The succession differs from those in County Limerick and adjacent areas ("Limerick Province") and Counties Meath and Westmeath ("North Midlands Province"). A new sub-Waulsortian depositional province is defined ("Kildare Province") covering much of Counties Dublin and Kildare. Waulsortian Limestones, also largely dolomitised, were probably deposited in deeper water and distinct mound forms can be distinguished which possess unusual internal textures. These are succeeded by the Calp which is of deep water turbiditic and mass flow origin. Basinal subsidence rate increased throughout the Lower Carboniferous culminating in faulting rather than flexural downwarping in Visan times.
30002447|The stratigraphy encountered in two closely spaced exploration wells drilled on the north-west shore of Lough Neagh, Northern Ireland, is reported. Annaghmore1 was drilled to a depth of 5100ft (1554.5m), and Ballynamullan-1, which was a deviated hole, reached a vertical depth of 4500ft (1371.6m). Both wells drilled through the Antrim Lava Group, the Ulster White Limestone Formation and a Permo-Triassic red-bed sequence comprising the Mercia Mudstone, Sherwood Sandstone, Belfast and Enler groups. The Annaghmore-1 well drilled a thick (542.5m) red-bed section beneath the base of the Belfast Group, which lacked definitive palynomorphs but which is thought to be Permian in age. The upper part of the Triassic sequence and the Lias are absent in the wells, probably as a result of erosion following Late Cimmerian tectonism. Differences of stratigraphical detail between the two wells are attributed to movement on intervening faults at different times. Spore fluorescence studies indicate that the well section is submature to mature for oil generation to 1219m and mature for dry gas beneath 1310m. Apatite fission track analysis suggests that Carboniferous source rocks produced much of their hydrocarbon potential during the Variscan episode.
30002261|Three well-preserved miospore assemblages are described from the Dinantian (Lower Carboniferous) Ballycultra Formation of Cultra, County Down, Northern Ireland. The miospore assemblages are assigned to the Schopfites claviger-Auroraspor macra (CM) Biozone, indicative of the late Courceyan (Tournaisian; Tn3). The presence of scolecondonts and acritarchs in one of the samples, together with previously published macrofossil evidence suggests a more 'normal' marine depositional environment for the Cultra sediments than for sections of comparable 'cementstone' facies of similar age in the Midland Valley of Scotland.
30002303|Arenig and Llanvirn sediments of the South Mayo Inlier occur in an east-west syncline. The north limb succession consists of deep-water turbidites, slates, and shallow-water sandstones; tuffs occur throughout. A simplified stratigraphy based on mappable units is presented. The deep-water succession includes the Owenmore Group (Letterbrock and Derrymore Formations, 950m): conglomerates, sandstones, and slates derived at least partly from metamorphics to the north; the Sheeffry Group (2200m excluding the Derrylea Formation): turbidites containing much volcanic material, mainly derived from the east; and Derrylea Formation (2000m): turbidites derived from the east and south, probably from the sedimentary cover of the Dalradian. There is little evidence for the development of submarine fans. The shallower-water Mweelrea Group (2700m) consists mainly of coarse sandstones and conglomerates, deposited on alluvial fans and fan-deltas with sources to the south and east. It includes four marine slate formations: the Glenummera Formation (600m), Glendavock, Uggool and Glenconnelly Formations (less than 250m each), deposited in slope to outer shelf settings. The slates thin southeastwards. Faulting, both within and at the margins of the basin, was a significant control on sedimentation. The South Mayo Inlier may have been a complex re-entrant on the northwestern margin of the Iapetus Ocean during the early Ordovician.
irisjeartscie.33.71|The mineral name apatite derives from a Greek word referring to deception but the exact etymology has become a source of significant confusion: authoritative mineralogy books, mineral websites and general reference works are mutually inconsistent. The original references were examined and present-day variations assessed for accuracy. German mineralogist Abraham Gottlob Werner published the original etymology in 1788 for the mineral he had privately already named. Werner's original term was the German
30002286|Abstract A new graptolite, Normalograptus pollex, possessing a distinctive expanded virgella has been identified from strata of Caradoc age at six localities in Wales and Ireland. On present knowledge, it appears to be confined to a narrow stratigraphical interval, the Ensigraptus caudatus Subzone of the Dicranograptus clingani Biozone. Normalograptus pollex has not been recognised from the well-studied Scottish Caradoc successions, suggesting that it may have been restricted to the southern margins of the Iapetus Ocean, although a broad variant occurs in the Grangegeeth terrane.
30002334|Two heterostracans have been recorded from County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland. The first one was supposed to be a psammosteid; this group is known only in the Devonian, but the fossil was collected in Vis6an rocks. However it is revised as an undetermined vertebrate, so the stratigraphical problem vanishes. The second heterostracan is a pteraspid fragment, pteraspids being known mostly from the Lower Devonian; but the fossil was also collected in Vis6an rocks. It is interpreted as a reworked specimen.
25780708|Azokh Cave is located in the southern Caucasus and contains a Pleistocene and Holocene sediment infill. The site is significant due to its geographic location at an important migratory route-way between the African subcontinent and Eurasia, and the recovery of Middle Pleistocene hominid remains in the sedimentary sequence during a previous phase of excavation. The stratigraphy of the largest of the cave's entrance passages, Azokh 1, is described in full in this paper for the first time. It is broadly divisible into nine units. Our investigations have shown that the stratigraphy splits between two spatially isolated sequences. The upper of these two sequences has proven to be fossiliferous and has yielded many types of mammal (macro and micro) fossils as well as evidence for human occupation. The base of this fossiliferous (upper) sequence is dated at around 300ka whilst the uppermost level appears to be largely confined to the Holocene (150 years BP).
30002368|Clay with the trade name of Colbond occurs as an infill deposit in a pocket within the Carboniferous Limestone of the Cloyne Syncline. Well preserved and diverse spores and pollen grains are described from two ex-situ samples of the clay. The palynological evidence indicates that the Colbond Clay is late Lower Jurassic to Middle Jurassic in age, which represents the first record of sediments of this age from onshore Ireland. The palynofacies and organic maturation are discussed and a non-marine lacustrine environment in a wai and wet climate is suggested. The evidence presented indicates that palaeo-karst features within the Carboniferous Limestone had probably been established by Jurassic times.
irisjeartscie.33.17|Wavestones are a type of pedestal rock composed of Carboniferous limestone (most commonly an erratic) described from Ireland. They have long been considered to form due to partial immersion in a lacustrine environment, their pedestals undergoing dissolution in lakes that have since shrunk or vanished (Foot and O'Kelly 1865; Kilroe 1907; Praeger 1937; Dunne and Feehan 2003; Simms 2006). Field investigations indicate lacustrine dissolution of Carboniferous limestone erratics (and Carboniferous limestone lake basins alike) is inconsequential at six wavestones sites in Ireland. Moreover, some wavestone erosion features are not compatible with lacustrine dissolution. Consequently, it is concluded that the examined wavestones were not formed in lakes. Instead, it is argued that dissolution in a sub-regolith environment is a more realistic assessment of their mode of development, the regolith being eroded subsequent to dissolution of the erratic.
30002371|Ten major glacial lake levels (at 245 m, 235 m, 217 m, 210 m, 187 m, 120 m, 92 m and 60 m I.O.D.) have been reconstructed in south-central Ulster, Northern Ireland, on the basis of accordance of heights of flat-topped ice-marginal glaciolacustrine deltas, extramarginal lacustrine deltas, shoreline notches, fluvial terraces and lake outlets. These lakes were impounded between the receding late Pleistocene ice sheet and the deglaciated Sperrin Mountains. Sedimentological evidence suggests that the ice margin was largely active throughout deglaciation. The lakes generally decreased in size with altitude, reflecting increasing topographic control on their development. Deglaciation models for central Ulster are reviewed in the light of this evidence.
30002322|Geological Survey of Ireland (GSI) collections from the Campile Formation (Duncannon Group) at Ballydonegan, near Ferns, Co. Wexford, contain specimens of the late Ordovician trilobite Mucronaspis These provide the first direct evidence that the Duncannon Group extends up into the Ashgill within the main Waterford-Wexford-Wicklow belt
30002382|The Dinantian stratigraphy of the Old Head of Kinsale and Galley Head, County Cork has been re-investigated and the two successions compared. The Lispatrick Formation at the Old Head of Kinsale is much thinner (67 m) and much older at its base (probably late Courceyan or Chadian) than previously reported. The White Strand Formation is re-defined to accommodate a unit of sandstone and mudrock at the Old Head, which is of Namurian age. At Galley Head the Courtmacsherry Formation is absent and the Lispatrick Formation, which ranges at least as high as the late Brigantian P2a Subzone, is substantially thinner than at the Old Head.
30002469|The Carboniferous blastoid fauna of Ireland comprises at least seventeen species (some of them undescribed) assigned to Astrocrinus, Codaster, Ellipticoblastus, Hadroblastus, Monoschizoblastus, Orbitremites, Orophocrinus, and Phaenoschisma and three or more undescribed genera. The blastoids occur in rocks of Courceyan to Brigantian age and lived in a wide range of habitats  from very shallow sub-tidal environments, to open marine shelf conditions and to deeper water facies associated with Waulsortian banks. The fauna is similar to, but not identical with, the blastoid faunas of England and Scotland, and also of Belgium. Western European faunas differ considerably at the generic level from coeval faunas in North America, which are usually more diverse. However, a general pattern of echinoderm community evolution appears to be common to both regions: early Carboniferous shallow water faunas dominated by monobathrid camerate crinoids with rare blastoids were replaced in late Dinantian/Mississippian time by faunas of poteriocrinine inadunate crinoids with blastoids that are commonly abundant and, in some cases, the dominant faunal element.
30002252|Rocks of presumed Jurassic age lie beneath Pleistocene deposits off the east coast of Ireland along the western side of the Kish Bank Basin against the Dalkey and Bray bounding faults. Reflection seismic profiles suggest that up to 2700 m of Jurassic strata are present against the faults. Published sea-bed sampling data demonstrate the presence of outcropping Lower Lias rocks at the northern basin margin, whilst derived fossils in drift deposits immediately onshore are of Lower, Middle and Upper Liassic age. It is argued that these fossils were derived from the Kish Bank Basin outcrops by movement of the Irish Sea ice and that the lack of any derived younger Jurassic fauna suggests that the offshore sequence belongs mainly to the Liassic. Only minor variation of thickness is evident on the seismic profiles against the marginal faults, and a review of known Liassic sequences in the Irish Sea and adjacent areas points to a parallelbedded mudrock succession with carbonate intercalations as the probable dominant lithology.
30002177|Sedimentary exposures near Mullaghcarn in the southern Sperrin Mountains, northcentral Ireland, overlie planated bedrock platforms and comprise interbedded sequences of bedrock-derived diamictic breccias, rock rafts and glaciotectonic shears. At Murrinmaguiggan, bedrock rafts are located between glacial outwash sediments that were deposited alternately from Sperrin ice to the north and Omagh Basin ice to the south-west. Flow indicators, including erratic carriage and the dip direction of rock rafts, glaciotectonic shears and outwash sediments, show that Sperrin ice advanced from north to south into terrain that had been vacated by Omagh Basin ice, which then readvanced following Sperrin ice retreat. This geomorphic and sedimentary evidence suggests that Sperrin ice was active during early deglacial stages and that oscillations of its ice margin were not synchronous with oscillations of Omagh Basin ice. Changes in climate and ice mass balance may have controlled ice mass activity.
30002330|The Galway granite in the west of Ireland contains a significant concentration of Mo-Cu at Mace Head in the centre of its westernmost Carna dome. Molybdenite and chalcopyrite are primarily hosted by late crosscutting quartz veins up to 10 cm wide, though they also occur as disseminations within the granite. Fluid inclusion studies of the granite, the quartz veins and of a K-feldspar breccia cutting the granite indicate the presence of three aqueous fluid inclusion types. Type 1, the predominant type, are mainly NaCl bearing, type 2 are CO2 bearing and type 3 contain a solid phase. T
30002503|Previous treatment of the Silurian rocks of the Cratloe Hills, County Clare is reviewed. The grey, more or less laminated siltstones and sandstones are described as the Cratloes Formation. The rocks are sparsely graptolitic but sufficiently so as to indicate a Wenlock age. One of two locally developed coarser members contains an upper Wenlock shelly fauna. The northern boundary of the narrow inlier is faulted. To the south the boundary with the Old Red Sandstone is partly faulted, partly unconformable. The Silurian rocks have undergone brittle deformation with many folds and much minor fracturing. The surrounding Old Red Sandstone is gently folded.
30002493|The Antrim-Down lineament is a 3-5 km wide northwest/southeast-trending non-Caledonian structure in northeast Ireland which terminates in the north against the Tow Valley fault sector of the Fair Head-Clew Bay lineament. It is 100 km in length but forms part of a more significant 220 km long lineament that extends south-south-eastwards to Anglesey, Wales. The Antrim-Down lineament is associated with a broad positive aeromagnetic anomaly and a steep magnetic gradient. It forms the western edge to a 500
30002373|Warm springs, having an average temperature over 12C, have been located at five places in Munster (at Mallow, Meelin, Kilmallock, Newcastle West and Gneevgullia). Physical and chemical parameters of these springs, and of neighbouring groundwater 'control' springs were monitored at regular intervals for periods between six months and three years. Mean water temperatures fall between 13.1C and 19.5C, the latter being the value for Lady's Well at Mallow. Water chemistry is typical of Irish limestone groundwaters, consistent with the location of the springs in, or near, Dinantian limestones. Isotopic and dissolved gas analyses suggest a short residence time in the warm aquifers, and a recharge temperature of 9 or 10C. Local geology and geophysical data suggest that east-west trending faults provide channelways for the rising warm waters. Perhaps significantly, the regional occurrence of the springs generally coincides with the eastern margin of the Cork-Limerick Namurian basin which is a line of major change in Variscan tectonic style.
30002501|A solitary, small body of 'greenstone' was recorded by the Geological Survey of Ireland during the course of their 19th century fieldwork near Bandon, County Cork. The current studies, involving mapping, resistivity and magnetic surveys, suggest that at least two, adjacent southerly dipping sills are present, with a total thickness of about 140 m and extending along strike in an east northeastly direction for over 3 km. Petrographic studies show a gabbroic composition with alteration; the principal minerals being albite, augite and chlorite. Major and trace element analyses of five samples indicate that a parental alkali basalt magma formed in a "within plate" environment. The magma underwent fractional crystallisation, producing cumulates and residual liquids both of which are preserved in the Bandon intrusions. Subsequent alteration, perhaps involving interaction with sea water, resulted in the breakdown of olivine and the replacement of calcic plagioclase by albite. The nature of the alteration suggests a Carboniferous age for the gabbros.
30002394|A megacryst-bearing pyroclastic pipe at Black Ball Head, Co. Cork, which is intruded into a Lower Carboniferous sedimentary sequence, is unique in Ireland. The megacryst assemblage comprises kaersutite, phlogopite and titaniferous magnetite accompanied by ultramafic nodules of amphibole pyroxenites. The groundmass of the rock is completely altered to chlorite and clay minerals. The mineral assemblage indicates that the source of the magma is in the upper mantle. Errorchron Rb-Sr data obtained from kaersutite and phlogopite megacrysts confirm that the intrusion of the igneous rocks, and the accompanying Hercynian deformation, took place before the end of the Carboniferous.
30002539|Results are presented of 1-atmosphere melting experiments on a tholeiitic lava and an associated tholeiitic andesite from the Causeway Tholeiite Member (CTM) of the Tertiary Antrim Lava Group. Phase relationships were investi- gated using a range of oxygen fugacities from quartz-fayalite-magnetite to nickel-nickel oxide. Results were in broad agreement with the observed petrography for the CTM, with olivine and plagioclase simultaneously on the liquidus, followed by clinopyroxene and iron ore. Eruption temperatures for the CTM lavas are estimated at around 1160C.
30002504|Borehole and geophysical data reveal some of the sedimentary fill and parts of the structure of the southern flank of the Rathlin Trough. Igneous activity has created problems in locating hydrocarbons but may have contributed to possible geothermal energy.
30002294|The Tow Valley Fault Zone in north-east Ireland consists of number of ENE-WSW trending major fault segments and shorter N-S ones with different dips, downthrows and geophysical characteristics. The fault zone is associated with high magnetic gradients and a marked north-westerly decrease in gravity. Modelling of gravity data suggests that near Garvagh (south-west) and Ballycastle (north-east) the major fault plane dips to the north-west at about 20-25 whereas the central section dips at 56 to the north-west. Thick sediments (c. 2.4km), mainly Permo-Triassic in age, occur beneath the Tertiary basalts north-west of the fault zone. Ground-based magnetic profiles across the fault zone yield a range of signatures. At some localities the fault is characterised by a 1km-wide zone of fracturing in the Tertiary basalts. Seismic data indicate that the fault zone continues offshore to the north-east of Rathlin Island.
25780704|The Carboniferous lithostratigraphic formations recognised in north Mayo during the late twentieth century by the Geological Survey of Ireland are shown to be widely recognizable but to have a markedly different distribution to that shown on the published map. Palaeocurrent data from fluvial horizons consistently indicate land to the north-west. The lowermost Minnaun Formation rests unconformably on a Dalradian basement and represents deposition on the fluvial coastal plain. The conformably overlying Downpatrick Formation of late Tournaisian or early Visan age displays alternations of marine and non-marine horizons, which are not obviously traceable and are attributed to localised coastal progradation and inundation due to shifting sediment supply. The overlying Moyny Limestone Formation is much more widespread than previously realised and is taken to represent a significant flooding event during the early Visan. Signs of regression in the upper part of this formation precede a major erosion surface above which lies the mixed fluvial/marine Mullaghmore Sandstone Formation. An oolitic coastal carbonate, the Killala Oolite Formation, records the subsequent flooding event. It is locally developed in north Mayo but in the northernmost coastal sections, the overlying Ballina Limestone Formation rests directly on the Mullaghmore Sandstone Formation with a basal transgressive lag.
25469704|The results of fluid inclusion petrography and microthermometry of Oughterard Granite quartz reveals the presence of a dominant and ubiquitous population of liquid rich (degree of fill  0.70-0.95) saline (<11 equivalent wt% NaCl) fluid inclusions. Temperature of homogenisation (to the liquid phase) ranges between 140C and 380C with the majority in the range 175C to 250C. These aqueous fluid inclusions invariably occur in annealed fractures that transverse the granite quartz. These represent evidence of saline hydrothermal fluid infiltration post crystallisation of granite quartz. Microthermometry also reveals that within this population rare CaCl-bearing fluid inclusions occur. Oxygen isotope
30002472|Twenty elements were determined in five soil profiles to bedrock along a traverse at right angles to strike of a lithium pegmatite dyke at 20 metre intervals. Most of the elements investigated are enriched in the B horizon of the profiles above granite, schists, and the lithium pegmatite. Rb, Ba, Sr, Cu, Zn, Pb, and Sn show maximum values above the lithium pegmatite within the B horizon.
25469715|The Shankill Fracture Zone is one of several faults that are possibly related, which transect the Devonian-aged Leinster Granite of south-east Ireland. The fault contains epithermal mineralisation, including a hydrothermal breccia that is cemented by the potassium-bearing manganese oxide, cryptomelane. Ar/Ar dating of cryptomelane from the breccia yielded a Miocene mineralisation age of 12.1  1.6Ma (2), believed to be coincident with tectonohydrothermal activity along the Shankill Fracture Zone. This fracture zone is the only confirmed onshore Neogene fault in Ireland that is not located in the north-east of the country.
30002528|Maps are presented of the Galway Granite showing the surface distribution of the radioelements (K, U and Th) and of the resulting heat production. Contours are based on measurements made using a portable calibrated gamma-ray spectrometer at 700 field stations. The maps show a direct correlation between high radioelement concentrations and outcrops of the leucocratic facies of the Galway Granite (the Murvey Gramnite). Particularly high concentrations (e.g. U > 15 ppm and Th > 40 ppm) are found within the circular outcrop of Murvey Granite at Costelloe. The maps also show significantly lower levels of heat producing elements min much of the granite on the eastern, upthrown side of the Shannawona Fault in what is behlieved to be a more deeply eroded part of the batholith.
30002186|A newly recorded occurrence of granite at Drogheda comprises a main hornblende-biotite quartz monzonite facies containing common diorite enclaves and a minor leucocratic granite facies. An unconformity between the granite and overlying late Chadian shallow-water limestones was intersected in a borehole. The quartz monzonite has a high-K, high-Sr, Ba, Th composition and is marginally metaluminous. Model
30002315|Trichograptus dilaceratus from the Ribband Group of Kiltrea, Enniscorthy (County Wexford), indicates a level well down in the Arenig Series, rather than Llanvirn as previously supposed. The material, among the best of Trichograptus yet recorded, is contrasted with T. fragilis, the type species Trichograptus
30002325|The German mineralogist Karl Ludwig (Anglicised Charles Lewis) Glesecke (1761-1833) had a most remarkable course of life: law student, actor, playwright, mineral collector, mineral dealer and finally professor of mineralogy in Dublin. His name is inseparably tied to the scientific history of Greenland, where he spent seven years (1806-13) collecting minerals and investigating the geology of the west coast. His geological diary not only gives information on the geology and mineralogy but also on the Greenlanders and their way of life. In 1805, the year before he left for Greenland, he managed to make a journey to the Faeroe Islands, but unfortunately his report on the journey is lost. However, papers in the Danish Record Office in Copenhagen give us some information on the conditions he found during his stay and also allow us to follow his travelling routes among the islands
30002348|An appraisal of published and unpublished Pleistocene biostratigraphical information allows a critical update of the framework of the Irish Quaternary to be presented in the form of a table. Details are presented of Early and Middle Pleistocene temperate stages, as well as new information on a possible last interglacial (Eemian) site in Wexford. The Irish sequence is compared with that of neighbouring continental Europe and with the global record of marine oxygen isotope stages. The Gortian Interglacial is reviewed, and the known sites are listed together with their biostratigraphical ranges. The biostratigraphy of the Midlandian Glaciation, about which we now have far more information, is also discussed along with details, including a pollen diagram, of the recently dated Early Midlandian deposits between Spa and Fenit at Kilfenora, County Kerry.
30002245|The transpression model, as applied to the Irish Variscan foreland in east-central Ireland, is studied with special emphasis on folding and cleavage. Major and minor folding and cleavage are found to be separate, only indirectly related, elements in the deformation history. Regional, steep pressure solution cleavage developed in association with conjugate sets of transcurrent vein arrays in a tectonic regime with the intermediate (Y) tectonic strain axis vertical. Minor folding developed in another set of orthogonal tectonic which had a vertical extensional (X) strain axis. Minor orientation differences between axial trends in the different regimes lead to obliquity between the dominant north-south to northeast-southwest trending features, which is not the product of non-coaxial progressive shear, but arose in a coaxial compressionrelaxation event with east southeast-west northwest compression alternating with east southeast-west northwest extension.
20788276|A contact zone between porphyritic microgranite of the early ring-complex of the Paleocene Slieve Gullion igneous centre and Lower Palaeozoic metasedimentary rocks of the LongfordDown inlier was exposed along a 300m section excavated during construction of the new M 1 motorway. The outcrop displays a thin sliver of LongfordDown metasediment in contact with porphyritic microgranite in a steep, and locally intensely crushed, contact zone that dips away from the ring-complex. This outcrop pattern is reminiscent of a 'caldera-superfault'. Given the recent discussion on sheet versus ring-dyke emplacement of the early ring-complex at Slieve Gullion, this new evidence argues in favour of the traditional ring-dyke model with magma ascending along an active ring fracture associated with caldera subsidence.
30002247|The Upper Basalt Formation of the Antrim Lava Group in northeast Ireland can be subdivided into aphyric olivine basalts succeeded by olivine-phyric, flowbanded basalts. New geochemical and mineralogical data, including electron microprobe analyses, are presented for these sub-groups. Field and geochemical evidence indicates that flowbanded lavas were probably fed by associated flowbanded plugs.
ijes.2017.35.35|Articulation in erect bryozoans is known from the Ordovician to the Recent, and is developed in a number of Palaeozoic Orders. In the Order Cryptostomata, articulation is largely confined to some members of the Suborder Ptilodictyina and the Family Arthrostylidae of the Suborder Rhabdomesina, and was previous noted in the sole genus of the Family Bactroporidae. Articulation is reported herein in the Family Rhabdomesidae for the first time. The new genus
30002345|Examination of the three-dimensional geometry of en echelon vein sets in the Lower Carboniferous Loughshinny Formation reveals a complexity not apparent from bedding plane exposures. Vein sets transfer into individual veins of different orientation. Structural analysis based on bedding plane exposures of veins in layered sequences must therefore be treated with great caution. Vein length and thickness have a power law relationship, and populations of thickness, length and spacing all have either negative exponential or log-normal distributions. This suggests that the shapes of small-scale structures may be used to infer the shapes of larger structures. However, the structures vary with scale in a non-linear manner: their shape and orientation change systematically with the scale at which they are observed. Observed veins are intimately associated with folds. The folds also have ellipsoidal geometries, with strains decreasing from a maximum to a tip-line of zero displacement. They have length to wavelength ratios of at least 4:1 and height to wavelength ratios of at least 8:1. Like the veins, they form predominantly dextral en echelon arrays. Overall, the structures are consistent with north-north-west shortening.
30002331|The Caledonian Orogen in Ireland can be divided into seven potentially suspect terranes which are, from northwest to southeast, the Grampian, Northwestern, Central, Grangegeeth, Bellewstown, Leinster, and Rosslare Terranes. The terrane boundaries are faults or complex shear zones where exposed, locally with evidence of sinistral shear and, or, transpression. They can be followed beneath the Upper Palaeozoic cover as aeromagnetic or gravity lineaments with or without evidence of later fault reactivation. The terranes are defined on the basis of lithology, deformational and metamorphic histories, and faunal provinciality. The docking histories are constrained by sedimentary linkages, overstep sequences, and stitching plutons. Some terranes may be composite and these have been subdivided into domains. Terrane and domain assembly was an extended process from early Ordovician to late Silurian times with increasing similarity of depositional environments being evident in the Silurian although later movement on some boundaries has occurred. Sr isotope systems in Caledonian granites and Pb isotope data from ore deposits support the distinction between terranes in the northwest and southeast but do not distinguish between the potential terranes recognised in the central part of the orogen. Evaluation of the magnitude of strike-dip displacement across the proposed terrane boundaries as opposed to orthogonal shortening requires consideration of a longer strike length than is contained within Ireland but no terranes need to be considered as incontrovertibly exotic.
30002175|Tourmaline is a common mineral in the aureole of the Leinster Granite, where it has usually been taken to reflect a pneumatolytic event involving the escape outwards of boron-rich gases/fluids concentrated in a residual granite fraction. This paper examines an alternative possibility that the boron was intrinsic to the aureole rocks since the time of their deposition as sediments and that their tourmalinisation was but a chemical rearrangement that took place during granite-related metamorphism and hydrothermal circulation in the wall rocks. That circulation, initiated as the granite was emplaced, continued in a diminishing yet significant manner until Lower Carboniferous times. As a consequence, tourmalinisation in the Leinster Granite aureole, mineralisation along the granite margin and dolomitisation in lowermost Carboniferous limestones may be aspects of a single drawn-out process and may share a common inheritance from the Iapetus sea floor.
30002316|Ugooloceras oblatum gen. and sp. nov. is an annulate orthocerid nautiloid from the Llanvirn (Whiterock) Series of south Mayo. The genus shows internal features indicating assignment to the family Geisonoceratidae and appears to be closely related to orthocerids from the late Ibexian of the south-western United States.
30002541|Analysis of the 359m-deep Wilson's Bridge borehole, WB3, in County Armagh reveals an almost-complete local Dinantian succession. Seven lithological units are recognised and consist of alternating marine and non-marine carbonate and siliciclastic rocks. The succession ranges in age from late Courceyan (CM Biozone) to late Asbian, and for the first time in Northern Ireland there is biostratigraphical evidence for continuous sedimentation across the Courceyan-Chadian boundary. Chadian conodonts near the base of the section show close similarities with faunas from coeval rocks in the Northumberland Trough. The Pu Biozone is now recognised as being considerably thicker than was previously suggested. The Tournaisian part of the Armagh succession is similar to that in the Clogher Valley of County Tyrone but quite different from successions in the Kingscourt and Navan areas, south of the Longford-Down Inlier. The Visan part of the succession is similar to that in counties Fermanagh and Tyrone, with open-marine limestones rich in corals and foraminifera of Arundian and late Asbian age, separated by deltaic sandstones yielding spores of TS to TC Biozone age (Holkerian to early Asbian). However, the Drumman More Sandstone Formation in Armagh is considered not to be a correlative of the Mullaghmore Sandstone Formation of north-west Ireland.
irisjeartscie.32.71|The Connemara Antiform has iconic status in the geology of western Ireland. With its east-to-west trend and eastward plunge and the disposition of Dalradian stratigraphy about its axis, it forms the dominant structure in the present-day landscape and is a focal feature of geological maps of the area. Its genesis has long been ascribed to D4, the last main major deformation phase of the Ordovician Grampian Orogeny that affected the Dalradian rocks of Connemara. But does the structure have such a straightforward and simple origin? This paper investigates the possible role of middlelate Silurian deformation in the origin of the Connemara Antiform.
30002256|A statistical analysis has been provided for 1535 drill-core assays and 8,652 blasthole assays. The pre-mining drill-core assays are positively skewed and of the log-normal type but the arithmetic mean is still considered to be an efficient estimator of the grade of the deposit. There is also a strong correlation between copper and silver. A geostatistical investigation has produced a model for the global semi-variogram. A statistical evaluation of the blasthole data confirms the efficiency of the arithmetic mean as an estimator and indicates considerable anisotropy.
30002349|Ballykeerogemore: 6km south of New Ross, interglacial muds and silts (probably of Gortian age) were disturbed by ice (probably of Munsterian age) which thrust diamicts into them. The disturbed deposits were later partly buried by outwash (glaciofluvial) sands and gravels. Still later there was extensive development of ground-ice in the area, and many arcuate banks formed when the ground-ice melted. Battlestown: 3.5km south-east of Ramsgrange, there is a small enclosed basin in which weakly calcareous diamict (probably of Munsterian age) rests on rock. In the centre of the basin a thin layer of grey, laminated, pyritic, fine-grained material with a low content of organic debris with arctic affinities rests on the diamict. A feeble interstadial is suggested. The debris thins out upwards in a grey sandy clay-mud. Near the surface the material gains a content of small stones, possibly carried in by periglacial activity.
30002480|The Paleocene analcime-olivine dolerites of West Connacht are strongly undersaturated rocks (average 5% normative nepheline) and fall deep within the alkaline field on a conventional total alkalis-silica plot. However, their potassium and rubidium contents are so low as to approach those of mid-ocean ridge basalts (MORB). They also show a MORB-like marked depletion in light rare-earth elements (LREE). The paradox of alkaline and subalkaline features combined in a single mafic rock-type derives from the conventional bracketing of sodium with potassium, mainly on the basis of their interplay during magmatic crystallisation of feldspar/feldspathoid minerals. However, the differing ionic radii and co-ordination numbers of these two Group I elements would indicate that they are extracted from separate mineral sources during mantle melting. It is considered that classification of mafic magmas on the basis of a combined sodium-potassium "alkalinity" can be misleading. Petrologists should be more willing to consider that the role of sodium in magma genesis is separate from that of the incompatible Group I elements. Analcime-olivine dolerites emphasise this separateness.
25780697|This paper concisely reviews the occurrence and type of clay minerals in Ireland. Working back through time, the occurrences include: soils; Quaternary glacial, lacustrine and alluvial sediments; residual deposits formed during Tertiary and earlier weathering; Tertiary clays; fillings within karstic depressions; the matrix of the Triassic Sherwood Sandstone; shales, fire-clays and bentonites of Devonian and Carboniferous age; and Lower Palaeozoic shales, metabentonites and altered basalts.
25780706|Retepora undata M'Coy, 1844, from the Mississippian of Ireland is shown to be a phylloporinid bryozoan of the genus Chainodictyon Foerste, 1887. It forms reticulated zoaria of anastomosing branches with characteristic droplet-shaped fenestrules. The status of the genus Phylloporella Frederiks, 1916, which was originally named with two type species is here formalised through designation of Retepora undata M'Coy, 1844, as the type species. Phylloporella Frederiks, 1916, is a junior synonym of Chainodictyon, Foerste, 1887.
30002337|A revised stratigraphy of the southwest and central Ox Mountains succession, County Mayo, is presented and a detailed correlation with the Dalradian stratigraphy of southern Donegal is established. The equivalence of the two successions is highlighted by the presence of a limestone/tillite/quartzite assemblage in each case. This classic tripartite association of typical Dalradian stratigraphy is in both areas overlain by a distinctive interlayered calcareous transition unit which is followed by an extremely thick and homogeneous turbiditic sequence comprising pelites, psammites and psephites. Correlation in these relatively indistinct lithologies is enhanced by the presence of metavolcanic units which collectively represent the lowest stratigraphic occurrence of such rocks in the Dalradian of northwest Ireland. The establishment of a cohesive stratigraphic framework in the Ox Mountains which can be directly equated with that of southern Donegal implies that the Middle (Argyll Group) Dalradian sub-basin centred on southern Donegal is of regional extent and significance. The recognition of an ordered, if somewhat disjointed, stratigraphy within the southwest and central Ox Mountains succession is inconsistent with a postulated terrane boundary within that succession.
30002185|Historically, the red-bed sedimentary rocks of the Fintona Block, Northern Ireland, were always assigned a Devonian age purely on the basis of their similarity to rocks of Lower and Upper Old Red Sandstone facies. The recent recognition of fault-bounded blocks containing rocks of early and late Carboniferous age was based on the discovery of diagnostic assemblages of miospores. Within the areally reduced Devonian outcrop, numerous localities also yielded miospore assemblages, but their poor preservation made identification, even at the generic level, difficult. However, further processing of rock samples from the same localities has yielded palynological assemblages that are confidently assigned a latest Lockhovian-early late Emsian age on the basis of the presence of Dictyotriletes emsiensis (Allen) McGregor, 1973, and on the general character of the assemblages, which is closely similar to that of the Pragian Verrucosisporites polygonalisDictyotriletes emsiensis Biozone of Richardson and McGregor (1986). This age determination is supported by the lack of spores with bifurcate or grapnel-tipped processes (which suggest a prelate Emsian age) and by the presence of specimens similar to Dictyotriletes gorgoneus Cramer, 1967.
30002450|More than 500m of Namurian strata is exposed on Whiddy Island, west Cork, in the axial portion of the Bantry Syncline. Three formations make up a conformable sequence that shows a general upward increase in the amount of sandstone. The rocks of the island are mainly litharenitic and sublitharenitic sandstones and dark mudrocks of deep-water aspect. These sediments are interpreted as representing, in upward sequence, basin-plain, fan-fringe, interchannel and channel/channelmouth turbidite facies, filling the basin longitudinally from the east. Their significance in terms of basin development is discussed. The Whiddy Island Namurian sediments were possibly derived by erosion of Dinantian strata exposed on intrabasinal highs lying both north and south of the basin.
30002321|Three species of exceptionally large rostroconchs are briefly described and figured from the Lower Carboniferous of Central and Western Europe-Hippocardia hibernica (Sowerby, 1815), Hippocardia herculea (Koninck, 1885) and Hippocardia? konincki (Baily, 1871). The nomenclatorial history of the genera Conocardium Bronn, 1835, Pleurorhynchus Phillips, 1836 and Hippocardia Brown, 1843 is discussed, and the characteristic morphology of hippocardiid taxa is explained and illustrated.
25469713|Three species of fossil polyplacophoran molluscs are known from Ireland. Two species were originally described in the nineteenth century: Helminthochiton griffithi Salter in M'Coy, 1846 and Pterochiton thomondiensis (Baily, 1859), and an articulated specimen representing a third indeterminate species, described here for the first time. Previous work on the evolutionary context of these species has relied on published illustrations and descriptions without examination of the type material. As chitons are considered rare in the fossil record, these specimens represent an interesting and important aspect of Irish palaeobiology.
30002184|'Mushroom stones', or 'wave stones', are limestone erratics or protruding bedrock that shows signs of erosion or dissolution suggestive of prolonged exposure to standing water. Fifty-three stones in the central lowlands of Ireland were recorded in a systematic fashion, with accurate lip-height measurements taken for more than half the stones using GPS (Global Positioning System) equipment. The heights of their erosional lips are discussed with reference to estimated pre-bog water tables, lake fluctuations and other possible explanations for this phenomenon. The results suggest that the erosion of the stones now found in the bogs of County Offaly cannot be attributed to erosion by a single large lake as previously speculated, whereas the notching of stones in and around wetlands and lakes in Roscommon and Clare is likely to be due largely to flooding and winter water levels.
30002320|The tail-piece of Caryocaris wrightii, hitherto unknown from the British Isles, is described from rocks of Arenig age in the English Lake District and from Kiltrea, Co. Wexford. It differs from Bohemian specimens of Llanvirn age in having three to five, instead of one, distinct lateral spinules on each stylet, the specimens with three spinules occur at a higher stratigraphical level than those with five.
25469712|A reassessment of the rare trepostome bryozoan Stenophragmidium Bassler, 1952 from the Mississippian (Lower Carboniferous) of Ireland and Britain has utilised traditional morphometric methods as well as multivariate statistical methods, and allowed for the recognition of eleven species of this genus from this region. Full systematic descriptions are given of these taxa, which include the type species of the genus S. lobatum (Munro, 1912), six new combinations, and three new species S. ashfellensis, S. hibernicum and S. bundoranensis.
30002312|The Precambrian of south-east Ireland has previously been taken to include the Rosslare Complex gneisses and amphibolites, the Ballycogly mylonites along their northern margin, and the Cullenstown Formation metasediments. The lithologies, deformation and metamorphic history of the Rosslare Complex and of the Ballycogly mylonites are briefly reviewed here, together with a short description of the Cambrian Cahore Group, which now includes the Cullenstown Formation. A Cambrian age is also suggested for the Ballycogly mylonites Precambrian rocks appear now to be confined to the Rosslare Complex gnelsses and amphibolites. Relationships between all these units, and between them and unconformable Lower Ordovician sediments, indicate that the Cahore Group and the Ballycogly mylonites were deformed in an early Caledonian, Middle Arenig orogenic event. Deformation of the related Anglesey succession has been referred to a Monian orogeny. The status of that term and the possible extent of an early Ordovician orogenic event along the south-east margin of Iapetus are discussed.
30002347|A small bay on the outcrop of the Portrane Limestone Formation is now recognised as a palaeokarstic feature rather than a fault graben. Attempts at palaeontological determination of the ages of the relevant section are reviewed, but have been unsuccessful. A new look at the stratigraphy has recognised that probable Wenlock rocks are overthrust on a thin black shale horizon near Priest's Chamber, but are unconformable on the Portrane Limestone Formation at the south-western junction. Re-examination of the stratigraphical relationships in a global context permits the reasonable suggestion that the palaeokarst, with a relief of more than 10m, was caused by sea-level fall induced by the Hirnantian glaciation.
irisjeartscie.32.79|A graptolite fauna from fine-grained interbeds in the volcaniclastic Horan Formation at Knock International airport, County Mayo, confirms a Yapeenian (= late Arenig) age for part of the Charlestown Group, on account of the presence of
30002333|Borehole results and regional geophysical surveys are considered for the 2,400 km' Lough Neagh-Larne gravity basin. Coal exploration boreholes have, in the past, provided much information concerning the Visdan, Namurian and Westphalian rocks on the west side of Lough Neagh. This area may be seen as a model for the distribution of Carboniferous strata, including potential hydrocarbon source rocks, to the northeast and deeper in the basin beneath younger cover. Correlation of the Permo-Triassic lithostratigraphic units is extended from the Belfast-Lame area to the boreholes around Lough Neagh. It is suggested that a Rhaetic section was drilled in the Ballymacilroy borehole to the north of the lough. Proved thicknesses of sedimentary and igneous rocks from the Carboniferous to the Tertiary are related to regional geophysical and local seismic information to suggest buried structural controls on deposition.
42909767|Inter-tidal environments play a central role in relative sea level (RSL) reconstruction studies and the use of composite records developed from elemental (organic carbon, total nitrogen) and isotopie (C) data have recently been applied in these environments. Sample pretreatment to remove inorganic carbon is a critical first step in this approach, but can distort the data. This paper presents the results of a comparative pilot study examining the performance of two acid preparation techniques (acid rinsing and acid fumigation) when applied to saltmarsh sediments from the Portmarnock and Shannon estuaries. In high marsh to supratidal settings, acid rinsing caused depletion of both C org and N tot, though no significant change to Corg/Ntot (C/N) was recorded. At lower altitudes, increased Ntot losses led to distortion of C/N ratios. Both pre-treatment methods produced comparable C signatures in higher elevation contexts, but acid rinsing produced a depletion of 0.6 in low marsh and tidal flat samples. Whilst differences between pretreatment methods are observed, offsets are relatively small when compared to the range of elemental and isotopie values encountered across a saltmarsh and should not affect environmental interpretations when used for RSL reconstruction.
30002399|Thermal maturation level and metamorphic grade in south-west Ireland were assessed using vitrinite reflectance and white-mica crystallinity techniques. Mean random vitrinite reflectance (%R,,) values over most of south-west Ireland are in the range 3-6%. However, around and within the Kanturk Coalfield there is a decrease in reflectance with younging, suggesting that a high palaeogeothermal gradient exists. Poor stratigraphical control, particularly within the Namurian succession, has made it impossible at present to determine this gradient accurately. A zone of high white-mica crystallinity exists in the south and west of the study area. White-mica crystallinity decreases within the Namurian succession of the Munster Basin. However, only Namurian rocks in the north of the region and at the Kanturk Coalfield have low crystallinities, implying that the relationship is not purely stratigraphical. Less intense Variscan deformation in a northerly direction within the north Kerry-Clare Namurian succession is considered to have resulted in the observed white-mica crystallinity pattern. There is no evidence of any significant post-Variscan compressional deformation in west Clare, and therefore white-mica crystallinity values have preserved a record of Variscan deformation-related metamorphic conditions. Crystallinity and vitrinite reflectance techniques clearly provide information about different aspects of the geological history. While vitrinite reflectance records peak palaeotemperature, there is evidence that crystallinity is sensitive to the effects of deformation.
25469706|Hollandite and cryptomelane occur as intergrown botryoidal masses with goethite in a quartz vein hosted by the Leinster Granite at Cloghleagh Mine, near Blessington, Co. Wicklow. Coronadite and romanchite accompany pyromorphite in an oxidised Pb-Zn-quartz vein at Old Luganure Mine, Glendasan, also in the Leinster Granite. Quantitative analyses show the Cloghleagh material to consist of bands of varying K:Ba ratio ranging from cryptomelane (K > Ba) to hollandite (Ba > K), but neither approaches end member composition. The Luganure material is mostly coronadite of near Pb-end member composition, in some cases mixed, or intergrown with, romanchite.
30002343|The small area of Silurian rocks south-east of Charlestown, County Mayo, has yielded diverse and interesting faunas. Previous collections by M'Coy and the Geological Survey in the 1870s and new collections have allowed a modem assessment of the fauna and its age. The informal succession of previous workers is formally named here. The oldest Glen School Formation is fluviatile and unfossiliferous. The overlying sandstones of the Cloonnamna Formation contain a mixed association of brachiopods, bivalves, gastropods, trilobites, and corals. Broadly this is environmentally equivalent to a mid-depth Benthic Assemblage 3-4, or the Costistricklandia Community of the Welsh Llandovery. The very local Uggool Limestone Member at the base of the formation contains a very diverse suite of tabulate and rugose corals, previously ignored. In the absence of graptolites the coral fauna indicates an early crenulata or possibly griestoniensis Biozone age for the limestone and a crenulata Biozone age for the lower part of the Cloonnamna Formation. The other elements of the fauna are compatible with this late Telychian age. No fossils are recorded from the younger Cloonierin Formation. Taxonomic notes are given for particular examples, as this is the type locality for several M'Coy species.
30002467|The camerate crinoid Trochocrinites laevis Portlock, previously incertae ordinis, is here reinterpreted as an archaeocrinid diplobathrid. Preservation of specimens is poor but it is apparent that infrabasals are small and located in the basal depression of the cup. Basals and radials are large. Radials are separated by four elongate, octagonal interradial plates, which support three polygonal interbrachials, and a similar ?anal X. Trochocrinites is possibly a senior synonym of Pararchaeocrinus Strimple and Watkins.
30002395|Variably oriented quartz veins in cleaved and folded Cambrian strata at Howth, Co. Dublin, display a near-vertical orientation when the strata are unfolded, suggesting a pre-folding origin for the veins. The veins contain two types of liquid-vapour aqueous fluid inclusions. Type I inclusions are larger and earlier than type II inclusions, and are interpreted as primary with respect to vein formation. These inclusions show a range in salinity (0-10wt% NaCl equivalent), with a modal salinity of 5-8wt%, consistent with the salinity of modified pore waters of Phanerozoic sedimentary basins. The wide range in liquid-vapour ratios and homogenisation temperatures observed (140-280C) suggests that the inclusions have undergone post-entrapment metamorphism, possibly as young as post-Lower Carboniferous in age. It is suggested that the veins formed vertically as hydraulic fractures during or shortly after sedimentation.
irisjeartscie.32.23|The Holocene in Ireland was a time of rapidly rising sea level that continued up to about 5000 years ago. This transgression lead to the flooding of mid-Holocene forested landscapes along the western seaboard of the country. Carbon 14 dating of in situ tree stumps set in peat from these forests shows a span of dates from approximately 7400 to 5200 years cal. BP from counties Mayo, Galway and Clare. Peat deposits of up to 2m thickness formed during this time. These dates firstly show that these forests were long-lived features of the Irish landscape. Secondly their presence suggests that at this time sea level was probably lower than that suggested in glacial rebound models for the area. Thirdly the general absence in these peats of evidence of marine incursion confirms that the Holocene highstand did not occur along the central part of the western Irish seaboard, unlike in areas along the north and east coasts of the country.
30002297|Some characteristics of a large arcuate ridge of granite boulders at Croloughan Lough, Derryveagh Mountains, Co. Donegal, and the adjacent terrain are outlined, and possible origins for the ridge are discussed. The ridge does not conform to generally accepted criteria for classification as a protalus rampart or protalus rock glacier. Certain characteristics suggest the ridge may be a product of rock-slope failure, but others do not support this hypothesis. Several lines of evidence point towards a glacial origin, and it is inferred that the ridge is the end moraine of a small glacier that developed at the site during the Nahanagan Stade (11-10ka
30002380|Ostracoda from the Suborder Platycopina, Suborder Podocopina, superfamilies Bairdiacea, Cypridacea and Darwinulacea are described from the Upper Jurassic and the Lower Cretaceous of the Fastnet Basin, offshore southwest Ireland. Altogether, one hundred and six productive samples were obtained from nine wells within the Fastnet Basin. In this paper, sixteen species of nine genera were recorded, five of which are new; Cytherella celticensis, Cytherella cornueli, Cytherella fastnetensis, Bairdoppilata fastnetensis and Bairdoppilata? kayei.
30002302|Lower Old Red Sandstone sediments in northeast County Antrim are conglomeratic and contain a variety of clast lithologies, with quartzite and volcanogenic debris predominating. There is however a problem of provenance, as these lithologies have no recognisable sources. Schist derived from the adjacent Dalradian is rare, the lower beds containing predominantly polycyclic quartzite and welded tuff clasts derived from the northwest. Intermediate igneous debris is abundant at the top of the succession and was probably derived from local contemporaneous lavas. Over 1 km of sediments accumulated in a small northeast-southwest trending embayment which opened towards the east. Alluvial fans on the opposing northwestern and southern margins of the basin contributed lateral fills of coarse debris, while an easterly dipping regional palaeoslope controlled a longitudinal transport of fine grained material in this direction.
30002352|Ground magnetometer traverses over drift-covered Tertiary basalt areas in northeast Ireland have revealed large-amplitude anomalies (>2000nT). Fault zones produce characteristic wide-zoned, large-variance, high-frequency anomalies, while faults that juxtapose basalts with different magnetic properties, or basalt against a non-magnetic lithology, can be identified. Plugs and relict fissures both produce large magnetic anomalies (up to 4000nT). Dykes associated with the basalts generally give anomalies of <500nT, with the largest dykes giving a maximum anomaly of  2000nT. This magnetic profiling technique can be used to identify and interpret geological structures present in the basalts in drift-covered areas with little or no exposure.
30002500|Three examples of a new type of ovicellular structure occur in an undescribed species of Rectifenestella from the Lower Carboniferous (Tournaisian) of Hook Head, County Wexford. The ovicells form relatively large hemispherical depressions located between autozooecial apertures on the obverse surface of branches. They possess thick low perimeters but it is not possible to tell whether these were continued as a calcified cover in life. Ovicell morphology is critical to taxonomic determinations in some groups of bryozoans and may also be of phylogenetic significance and value at high taxonomic rank. The description of a new ovicell morphotype in Rectifenestella increases the morphological diversity of ovicells recognised in Fenestella s.l. It may also be of phylogenetic significance in respect of the suggested polyphyletic origin of Fenestella s.l. and its recent subdivision into a number of genera.
30002209|The Kildare inlier, 45km south-west of Dublin, contains diverse lithologies of Ordovician (Llanvirn) to mid-Silurian age. Graptolite assemblages collected from the Guidenstown Formation at the base of Dunmurry Hill correlate with the sedgwickii Biozone, thus establishing a threefold Silurian stratigraphy of the Guidenstown Formation, Rahilla Formation, and the thicker Dunmurry Formation, which is possibly Wenlock in age. The Ordovician succession is revised and includes the Caradoc Grange Allen Formation, unconformable on the Llanvirn Conlanstown Formation with three members: the thin Grange Cottage Member is of shallow-water tuffaceous clastics with a Soudleyan shelly fauna, the Common Andesite Member is a thick pile of subaerial andesites, followed by the Grange Hill Member with a diverse Longvillian fauna in calcareous siltstones. A significant stratigraphical break is present between the Grange Allen Formation and the carbonate mudmound, Kildare Limestone Formation, with its Hirnantia Mudstone Member.
30002250|The Tertiary (Upper Oligocene) Lough Neagh Basin probably consisted of a number of fault-controlled sub-basins, delimited by northeast-southwest and north northwestsouth southeast fractures in an extensional regime. The deposits of the basin represent a range of sedimentary environments associated with a lacustrine system. Lignite and organic-rich mudrocks were deposited in a swampy environment at the lake margin. The lake waters appear to have been fresh with low sulphur content, and the iron mineralogy is therefore dominated by siderite rather than pyrite. In addition to plant material the biota included gastropods, bivalves, ostracods and diatoms. The clay mineralogy of the fine grained sediments is dominated by kaolinite. The upper portion of the underlying Paleocene basalts is extensively weathered to kaolinitic clay which would have been eroded and transported into the Lough Neagh Basin. The inorganic geochemistry of the sediments is consistent with weathering of a basalt terrane. Provenance studies show that with time the drainage system eroded into older rocks below the basalts.
42909764|Ireland is well known to geologists as containing some of the thickest successions of Early Ordovician (485470 Ma; Walker et al 2012) sedimentary rocks in the world. The carbon stable isotope compositions (C value) of similarly aged rocks have been reported for only very few places in the world (i.e., Argentina, southern China, and southern France), and no such analyses have been performed on the Early Ordovician, organic-rich rocks of Ireland. Here we report the C values of bulk organic material and organic isolates recovered from the Annascaul Formation of Southwestern Ireland. Members of the Annascaul Formation spanning the Early Ordovician were sampled at multiple sites within five localities on the Dingle Peninsula, County Kerry. Mean bulk organic C values for the organic matter within rocks of the Farranacarriga, Tinal, Illaunglass, Bealacoon, and Killelton Members ranged from  28.7, (Farranacarriga) to  22.1 (Illaunglass); the average C values of organics isolated from the Farranacarriga and Bealacoon Members were  29.0 and  28.4, respectively. No statistical difference was observed between the C value of isolates and the C value of bulk sediment from which organics had been isolated (P= 0.85, Farranacarriga, N = 6; p = 0.81, Bealacoon, n = 5; paired Mest). The C values we present here agree well with the previously published 5 l3 C values for Early Ordovician organic carbon (average = 28.4, 25.4, 25.5) from Argentina, southern China, and southern France (respectively). Our new data from the Annascaul Formation are ~3.3 higher than the average value reported for C values of organic matter of marine origin for the same period, raising the possibility that terrestrial bryophytes (or other terrestrial photosynthesizers) contributed to these Early Ordovician sediments. Further equivocal evidence is provided by the abundant organic macerais found within the Farranacarriga Member with possible vitrinite origin. The C values of palynomorphsized organic isolates from the Annascaul Formation reflect a marine origin for these organisms, consistent with their previous identification as acritarchs. Given the recognition of the earliest thalloid macrofossils and land-plant cryptospores in the Middle Ordovician sediments of the Appalachian basin (USA) and Argentina, respectively, our results highlight the Early-Middle Ordovician boundary as a potentially crucial time of terrestrial ecosystem expansion and development.
30002468|The rocks of the Lough Guitane Volcanic Complex are found interbedded with the Upper Devonian clastic sediments of the Munster Basin, and are subdivided into three geographically separate volcanic centres or members: the Horses Glen Volcanic Centre, the Bennaunmore Volcanic Centre and the Killeen Volcanic Centre. They comprise thick rhyolitic lava flows and volcaniclastics, the latter consisting exclusively of intimate mixtures of volcaniclastic and terrigenous sediment. In the Bennaunmore Volcanic Centre a system of contemporaneous faults strongly influenced the pattern of deposition and appear related to laterally discontinuous agglomerates termed "boulder tuffs" which contain rounded sandstone boulders. Subsequent burial by fluvial sediments was followed by Hercynian folding and faulting. The major reversed fault which marks the course of the "Hercynian Front" to the north of the area is locally displaced southwards under the influence of a shallow intrusion postulated beneath the Bennaunmore Centre. Three detailed geological maps are presented along with structural and schematic sections.
30002183|When the Japanese earthquake of 17 April 1889 ushered in the present era of seismology, the religious order of the Society of Jesus became interested in the subject and set up observatories in various parts of the world. In Ireland, two were constructed at their colleges at Mungret, Limerick (in 1907), and Rathfarnham, Dublin (in 1916). A history of these observatories is given here; it is culled from many sources, some of which have unfortunately proved to be unreliable. In these observatories seismographs of a unique design were installed. Revd W.J. O'Leary, SJ, who was in charge of the observatories from 1905 to 1929, seems to have been involved in the design of the seismographs, but it is not clear how much. Their construction has been erroneously attributed to him. The paper contends that they were the products of an English commercial company that was competing with established Continental manufacturers. One of the seismographs, at Rathfarnham, was among the largest ever made, and it operated successfully for over 30 years. Drawings made of the parts of this dissembled seismograph are given. The lack of knowledge of certain essential constructional details, now revealed, misled various authors in theories they developed to explain the reaction to seismic impulses of this type of seismograph.
30002206|Waulsortian carbonate (mud)banks, which occupied large areas of Ireland in late Tournaisian time, adopted three basic growth patterns: knoll-form, sheet-form and tabular-form. Sections in a quarry near Loughrea, County Galway, have provided a rare opportunity to study two of these types in three dimensions, particularly the poorly known tabular-form. Depositional topography is analysed using evidence from bank margin geometry and relationships with off-bank limestones. Retrograde growth, the gradual 'dying-back' of the upper part of a bank, is observed clearly for the first time. Since it was here synchronous with initiation of another bank nearby, bank demise was not due to a general change of conditions. Composite-form banks can be seen to develop by coalescence of simple forms. Such banks may contribute significantly to the Irish Waulsortian Complex. The classification of growth-forms is revised to include composite-forms and to distinguish banks with static margins from those which prograded. The difficulty of identifying growth-forms in poorly exposed ground or drillcores is highlighted. Upper boundaries of Waulsortian lithosomes are not necessarily time-surfaces and should not be interpreted directly as seafloor profiles.
30002350|Late Palaezoic rifting in Connemara was associated with subalkaline mafic diking of east-north-east trend. A local but powerful divergence from this trend was effected by the Shannawon fault, a shear zone dividing and coeval with the 400 m.y.-old Galway granite batholith. The upper crustal geometry of this fault channelled mafic magma into north-north-east-trending fissures comprising the na hUillinn dike system of eastern Connemara. Where this system traversed the 490 m.y. island-arc plutonic belt forming the northern envelope of the Galway granite, partial melting of lower crustal amphibolite was induced. The resulting granitic melts competed with mafic melts for entry into the upper crustal fissures. Magma mixing and mingling became more pronounced southward along the na hUillinn system, until reaching a volcanic feeder. At various localities along the dikes, abundant and highly mobile silicic magma was injected as subhorizontal microgranite sheets.
30002384|Descriptions and size data are presented for zircon populations from rocks of the northern unit of the Leinster pluton. while many of the zircon characteristics are common to a range of rock types, they yet reflect a long and complex cooling history. Data from the marginal granodiorites are different from those of all other rocks, and are considered to be the result of local matasomatism and digestion of pelitic xenoliths.
30002379|An inadunate crinoid represented by very poorly preserved material from the Llanvirn Tramore Limestone was previously thought to be a monocyclic heterocrinid, but is shown to be dicyclic and possibly to belong to the cladid family Dendrocrinidae. The column is circular, heteromorphic proximally and homeomorphic distally. Mode of attachment is unknown. The cup is conical with tall, polygonal basals and infrabasals. Arms branch isotomously and may be unbranched.
30002435|Organic maturation levels of the Carboniferous rocks of the Wexford Outlier and Hook Head (0.77% - 2.54% Rm; CAI 3 - 4) are considerably lower than those of Carboniferous strata in adjacent areas. Results are presented from 54 vitrinite reflectance, 15 spore colour (TAI)/fluorescence and 53 conodont colour (CAI) determinations. These date show that observed maturation levels in the Wexford Carboniferous can be attributed to normal burial processes, and that the present maturation levels may have been attained during late Carboniferous times. However, the maturation level of the youngest known Carboniferous in the area, the Westphalian D Richfield Formation, may be due to post-Variscan burial.
30002422|The age of the Ox Mountains Granodiorite has proved controversial in the past. Two published Rb-Sr whole rock isochrons suggest ages of
25780698|A taxonomic illustrated review of the Late Cretaceous fossil birds known from the Argentine locality of El Brete (Salta Province, Patagonia, Argentina) is presented here for the first time. Although some of these specimens were first reported in the early 1980s, and then a handful more were presented in literature thoughout the 1990s, this important collection of fossil birds has largely remained undescribed since it was gathered 30 years ago. This is in spite of the fact that the El Brete collection provided the basis of C.A. Walker's insight that enantiornithine birds are anatomicallyand phylogeneticallydistinct from all other living and extinct avians. A catalogue of the known specimens from this site is also presented, and many elements are illustrated for the first time. We revise the anatomy of taxa from El Brete and provide complete lists of referred specimens, based on casts of the collection held in the Natural History Museum, London, and Walker's original manuscript. Six valid euenantiornithine birds are currently known from the El Brete localityEnantiornis Walker 1981, Lectavis Chiappe 1993, Soroavisaurus Chiappe 1993, Yungavolucris Chiappe 1993, and Martinavis Walker et al. 2007alongside a new taxon described and documented in this paper (Elbretornis). This new fossil euenantiornithine is remarkable because its humerus is highly pneumatised, more extensively than any other known Mesozoic fossil bird. The physiological and evolutionary implications of this bird and the other El Brete taxa are discussed.
30002246|Five extension vein sets have been discriminated using field relationships and cathodoluminescence studies of their carbonate cements. The first set (V) formed at shallow to intermediate burial during regional north northwest-south southeast extension in Courceyan to Asbian/Brigantian times. Major syn-diagenetic and epigenetic sulphide mineralization of the Ballinalack Zn-Pb deposit is related to this deformation, and commenced in the late Chadian during late-shallow and intermediate burial diagenesis. The second set (V) formed at intermediate to deep burial depths during a west northwest-east southeast compression (Sudetic?) commencing in the late Dinantian. The onset of this compression also marks the termination of sulphide mineralization at Ballinalack. The third set (V) formed during deep burial and is related to late Carboniferous/Permian northwest-southeast main Hercynian compression. The fourth set (V) formed at intermediate to deep burial depths during undifferentiated Mesozoic north-south and east-west compressional and extensional events. The fifth set (V) is poorly represented and may represent a late Mesozoic/Tertiary veining event.
30002434|A new fauna from the upper Llandovery Tonalee Formation, marine red beds in western Ireland, contains the brachiopods Dicoelosia hibernica sp. nov. and Lissatrypa minuta sp. nov., together with species of Skenidioides and Leangella. Associated are the trilobites Leonaspis and a cheirurid, the ostracode Beyrichia (Beyrichia), rugose corals, and pelmatozoan ossicles. The assemblage, a much depleted variant of the communities in the uppermost Kilbride Formation, may be compared with Marginal Clorinda communities. Such contracted assemblages differed from the well-defined and distinctive, deep-water benthos of the late Ordovician.
30002279|Interpretation of deep-crustal seismic data across the Variscan fold belt in southern Ireland and the Celtic Sea suggests the presence of two intra-crustal ductility boundaries, characterised by subhorizontal detachments. These influenced the style of Devono-Carboniferous extension, Variscan deformation and the development of the Mesozoic-Tertiary Celtic Sea basins. The upper boundary, at 11-14km depth, separates brittle upper crust from middle crust. A number of major Variscan and pre-Variscan faults flatten into this layer, before continuing into middle crust that deformed in a more ductile fashion. Caledonian, Variscan and Mesozoic-Tertiary structure is preserved in the middle crust, and widespread structural linkage with the upper crust can be demonstrated. This suggests that only a moderate change in ductility occurs at the 11-14km dcollement. The second boundary, at c. 22km depth, coincides with the top of the reflective lower crust and is interpreted as the crustal brittle-ductile transition. A number of major Variscan thrusts terminate at this layer offshore to the south of Ireland. The lower crust is considered to be a relatively recent, probably Tertiary, feature that has behaved in a highly ductile fashion. The ability of the lower crust to preserve brittle structures is poor, with demonstrable structural linkage between the middle and lower crust associated only with major geological features such as crustal terrane boundaries or suture zones.
30002419|Use of Lower Palaeozoic carbonate fossils for palaeothermometry as derived from stable isotope geochemistry is increasing. With all these studies, there is the concern of how pristine the skeletal carbonate is in relation to diagenesis. In this study, we compared the stable isotopes of calcitic brachiopod and bryozoan allochems with secondary cements to determine if the skeletal isotopes were reset during diagenesis. The study was conducted on the Courtown and Tramore Limestone Formations of the Ordovician (Llanvirn-Caradoc) Duncannon Group, which outcrops in south-eastern Ireland. These formations consist of calcareous mudrocks and argillaceous limestones. Bryozoans and brachiopods are common allochems in both formations. The Duncannon sediments were cleaved, folded and faulted by compression associated with the Caledonian and Hercynian orogenies. Bulk rock samples were slabbed and thick-sectioned. Fifty three
30002385|A complex deformation history is described from the low grade metasediments of this area and is analysed and correlated with adjacent parts of northwest Donegal.
25469716|East-north-east trending amphibolite facies metasedimentary and metaigneous gneisses of the Rosslare Complex, south-east Ireland, have been reconstituted into north-east trending greenschist facies mylonitic shear zones composed mainly of chlorite, sericite and opaque minerals. Modal abundances of feldspar and amphibole in metadiorite decrease and the abundances of sericite and chlorite increase with increasing retrogression. Garnet was altered to chlorite and sheared parallel to the foliation. Plagioclase feldspar underwent brittle deformation whereas quartz experienced syntectonic recrystallisation to finer strain-free grains. Following brittle deformation, feldspar was chloritised during retrogression. Published whole rock chemical analyses indicate that altered metadiorite at Greenore Point gained Mg and lost alkalis (Na, K, Rb), Sr, and Si. Some trace elements (such as Ti, Zr, P) and major elements (Fe, Al and Ca) were immobile. Aqueous fluid inclusions in syntectonic quartz veins have salinities of 5-21 wt% NaCl equivalent, and their first melting temperatures indicate two distinct compositional fluid types are present: KCl and MgCl-rich compositions. Balanced retrograde reactions indicate an influx of Mg-rich fluids that exchanged with alkalis in the rock. A simple petrological model involving hydration of periclase to form brucite displays several features analogous to the natural retrograde process, namely, buffering of the fluid salinity and composition by retrograde reaction, reaction-enhanced weakening resulting in retrograde shear zone formation and episodic open and closed system behaviour involving pulsed fluid flow.
30002418|Foraminiferans, calcareous algae and rugose corals from many sections in the Glencar Limestone, Dartry Limestone, Bricklieve Limestone and Meenymore formations in north-western Ireland have been analysed. Results from the fauna and microflora suggest that these formations constitute the early to late Asbian for the Glencar Limestone Formation and lower Bricklieve Limestone Formation (Cf6-Cf6 foraminiferal subzones), and the upper part of the late Asbian for the Dartry Limestone Formation and upper Bricklieve Limestone Formation (Cf6 Subzone). The succeeding Meenymore Formation in the studied area is assigned to the Brigantian (Cf6 Subzone). Goniatite biozonal schemes established previously for equivalent strata to the east in the Cuilcagh Mountains that are not in harmony with the dating proposed here are discussed.
30002492|The primary ore containing millerite, galena, and chalcopyrite occurs in a mineralized fault at Sheeffry mine, County Mayo. Oxidation of the primary ores has resulted in a suite of supergene arsenate and sulphate minerals including annabergite and wroewolfeite which are new to Ireland. Two distinct periods of oxidation have occurred, the earlier one, which predates the mine workings, resulted in a small oxidised zone containing lead and copper sulphates. Post-mine oxidation has produced annabergite, erythrite, and gypsum. Other minerals observed are pyrite, anglesite, linarite, langite, calcite, and quartz.
23486679|Penniretepora d'Orbigny, 1849, is a widespread and distinctive Upper Palaeozoic acanthocladiid bryozoan. A syntype of the type species Retepora pluma Phillips, 1836, has been located, illustrated and designated lectotype, and the neotype designated in 1974 is set-aside.
30002305|A north-south coastal section through Hercynian deformed carbonate and clastic lithologies of Carboniferous age is exposed in the extreme northwest of County Kerry. Informal lithostratigraphic units are defined on the basis of their mechanical homogeneity, and the different, distinctive styles of deformation within them are described. Variations of folding depend on the nature, thickness and homogeneity of a lithostratigraphic unit relative to the adjacent over- and underlying units. Thrusting is associated with irregularly bedded multilayers and two distinct thrust horizons are recognised. There is a consistent pattern and chronology of minor structures related to the main folds, although their development is also lithologically controlled. Fracture analysis (faults, joints and veins) indicates a dominant, north-south trending conjugate set and a less dominant east-west set of fractures. A major east-west dextral transcurrent fault (the Doon Fault) is recognised. The structures observed in northwest Kerry indicate a period of prolonged, northsouth compression, which also had a component of dextral simple shear.
30002526|The 'Old Red Sandstone' of Kerry Head, southwest Ireland, comprses sandstone bodies (with lateral-accretion beds and channel fills) interbedded with sandstonemudstone deposits. Mean grain size of sandstone beds decreases upwards through the sequence and colours change from mainly red and grey to mainly yellow and green. The sequence is stratigraphically subdivided, on the basis of mean grain size and relative proportion of sandstone bodies, into the Glandahalin Formation (> 321m thick, mainly Famennian in age), Inshaboy Formation (174m thick, FamennianTournaisian la in age), and Kilmore Formation (208m thick, Tnlb-Tn2b in age). The sandstone bodies are interpreted as deposits of laterally-migrating, southerly-flowing river channels with sinuosities less than 1.2 and which decreased in slope as the palaeocoastline approached from the south. The sandstone-mudstone beds are interpreted as deposits of vegetated floodplains beneath which the water table was progressively rising. The 'Lower Limestone Shale' (Clashmelcon Formation; > 88m thick, Tn2 m age) comprises lateral-accretion deposits and channel fill deposits (with cross-stratified sandstone and heterolithic beds formed by tidal currents) interbedded with wave- and tidal-current formed heterolithic beds and desiccated cryptalgal laminites. Marine body and trace fossils increase in diversity upwards. This formation is interpreted as having been formed during progressive drowning of an estuary during the Tournaisian marine transgression. Geological structure of Kerry Head is dominated by a major plunging antichne trending roughly E-W. There are also many minor asymmetrical folds, associated minor thrusts and cleavage development, the styles of which are controlled by lithology. In addition there are faults (many with a stnke-slip component), joints and shear zones at lugh angles to the axial trace of the main anticlihne, and late stage extensional fractures (e.g. normal faults). The folding, cleavage, and thrusting are related to generally N-S shortening typical of the Vanscan deformation in this region, followed by stress relaxation.
23489015|This paper describes geomorphological and sedimentary evidence from Aran Island and Cruit Island (County Donegal, north-west Ireland), informed by evidence from across west Donegal, which helps to show the processes of ice advance and retreat and subglacial conditions during the last (late Midlandian) glaciation. Extensive abraded rock surfaces show clear evidence for ice overtopping of the islands. Erosional landforms include striae, flutes developed in bedrock, whalebacks, roches mountonnes and meltwater channels. Depositional landforms include erratic boulders and a single marginal moraine on Aran Island. Glacial or glacially-influenced sediment deposition that does not have a geomorphic expression took place into bedrock hollows during an ice advance stage, probably around the time of the last glacial maximum. The dominance of erosional signatures likely reflects the stripping by ice of a surficial cover of weathered pre-glacial granite debris. The general absence of subglacial and ice-marginal sediments across the region likely reflects the granite substrate and coarse granitic weathering products, which did not favour development of a thick deformable sediment pile.
30002295|Composite dolerite-rhyolite dikes traverse the Galway Granite batholith and its adjacent envelope. The dikes pertain to the Teach Dite suite and were previously considered to be of Carboniferous age. New and extended examination of field relationships supports recent radiometric dating for an intrusive period that overlapped with the final consolidation of the Galway batholith. Regional crustal extension produced a complex pattern of fissuring, controlled by various pre-existing structures, which permitted ascent of mantle-derived melts into and around the Galway batholith. Ponding of mafic magma at an intermediate level facilitated crustal partial melting and the generation of high-silica, high-alumina rhyolitic melts. The two contrasting magmas then rose into common or proximate dike fissures, rhyolitic injection immediately following that of dolerite. Magma storage in stratified chambers occasionally resulted in the development of a hybrid magma layer, but in all cases minor mingling and mixing beween dolerite and rhyolite magma continued up into the dikes. Rhyolite geochemistry precludes a genetic relationship with the Galway granitoids, despite a few instances where granitic material was entrained into rhyolitic magma.
25469707|A detailed magnetic fabric study of the annular partially layered Palaeogene Carlingford 'Later Gabbros', Co. Louth, is combined with field observations to constrain existing emplacement models for the intrusion. The Anisotropy of Magnetic Susceptibility (AMS) fabrics are generally quite inconsistently oriented. Only in three of seven traverses of the intrusion is consistency in orientation observed, suggesting that little can be drawn from the data by way of interpretation. However, the traverse in the north of the intrusion, at Ballinteskin, corresponds to an area of considerable syn-magmatic deformation of layering. Magnetic fabrics in this area exhibit consistently oriented inward dipping and inward plunging magnetic foliations and lineations respectively. Comparison of this data with a recent AMS study of the Great Eucrite of Ardnamurchan, NW Scotland, suggests that though central subsidence may have occurred in the Later Gabbros too, it was not as important as in Ardnamurchan. This is supported to some degree by the presence of a shallowly dipping (20) intrusive contact between the Later Gabbros and an extensive granophyre intrusion, which also suggests that the granophyre is the older intrusion. This conclusion is inconsistent with previous interpretations of the granophyre as the youngest intrusion in the Carlingford igneous centre.
30002259|Portlock's (1843) figured speciman of Leptechioceras macdonnelli, recently rediscovered, is refigured, and Wright's (1880) designation of this specimen as the type specimen is a valid one of lectotype. The Psiloceras (Caloceras) intermedium described as type specimen by Wright (1881) and holotype by Donovan (1952,1954) is not considered to be that figured by Portlock, but is one of his original type series and Wright's (1881) designation is a valid one of lectotype. A lectotype is designated for Psiloceras (Psiloceras) sampsoni, and this species is probably synonymous with Psiloceras (Psiloceras) planorbis (Sowerby). Paralectotypes are designated for all three taxa. Evidence is presented which suggests that the type localities of L. macdonnelli and P. (C.) intermedium have been transposed.
ijes.2017.35.1|The Raheen Formation at Newtown Head in Waterford Harbour is a small isolated section of Ordovician rocks, dominated by volcanics of the Duncannon Group, but with interbedded fossiliferous shales. Although a brachiopod and trilobite dominated fauna has been known since the mid-nineteenth century, only the trilobites and cystoids have been assessed in modern terms. This paper describes the brachiopod fauna for the first time. The assemblage from Raheen is overwhelmingly dominated by the dalmanelloid
30002249|The Silurian, Glencraff Formation of north Galway has previously been interpreted as a deep-basinal, distal-turbidite sequence, representing the culmination of a marine transgression. It is reinterpreted here as mid- to outer-shelf storm deposits, most of which accumulated below storm wave base. The formation is divided into five lithofacies, A to E. Facies A consists of thinly bedded sandstones, which exhibit occasional hummocky cross-stratification (HCS) and abundant low-angle cross lamination and horizontal lamination. Facies B consists of parallel-laminated, thin bedded sandstones; Facies C of generally massive siltstones; and Facies D of mudstone. Facies A, B and C are interpreted as having been deposited by storm activity, mainly below storm wave base. Facies D represents the quiet, slow, mid- to outer-shelf background sedimentation. Facies E occurs only at the top of the formation and consists of a series of thinly-bedded tuffs which contain abundant large-scale hummocky cross-stratification and are therefore interpreted as having been deposited in slightly shallower water than the rest of the formation. A slight, gradual decrease in water depth is recorded throughout most of the formation by an increase in the occurrence of small-scale HCS in the Facies A sandstones. The enhanced shallowing of water depth during deposition of the tuffs is interpreted as being partly caused by the rapid influx of the tuffs themselves. Palaeocurrent data and facies relationships indicate that the shoreline lay to the northwest with a roughly northeast-southwest orientation.
30002525|About 130 species of brachiopods, bryozoans, trilobites, molluscs, sponges, and corals extracted by acid digestion of Asbian limestones in County Fermanagh are identified and briefly discussed in terms of their palaeoenvironments. The brachiopod fauna is more diverse than those hitherto described, with 56 species from one locality, including 16 species which were newly described by the author. The general faunal and lithological evidence indicates that these Asbian seas were warm and of a shallow marginal nature with varying depths and current velocities, but generally shallowing towards the end of the stage.
30002484|A new fenestrate bryozoan genus, Baculopora gen. nov. and two new species, Diploporaria tenella sp. nov. and Thamniscus colei sp. nov. are described from the rich silicified Vistan fauna of the Glencar Limestone in County Fermanagh. Vincularia megastoma M'Coy 1844 has been reassigned to the genus Baculopora. Colonies of Baculopora megastoma form delicate, irregularly dichotomising, non-pinnate expansions, with four to seven rows of autozooecia on each branch. Baculopora is morphologically similar to Diploporaria Nickles and Bassler which, however, has only two rows of autozooecia. Colonies of Diploporaria tenella are small and slender while those of Thamniscus colei are robust, and bear two to five irregularly arranged rows of autozooecia.
30002174|The columnar flows of the Causeway Tholeiite Member (CTM) of the Antrim Lava Group are examined in north Antrim, with a view to establishing the origin of their characteristic multi-tiered jointing as demonstrated at the Giant's Causeway. The occurrence in the CTM of hyaloclastite breccias and pillow lavas, interbasaltic fluviatile sediments and lava-infilled river valleys suggests a water-rich environment of eruption where the cooling regime within flows was modified by flooding of the lava surfaces during cooling. This modification led to the formation of the upper zone of narrow, often curved columns of the entablature, above the wider more regular columns of the colonnade.
irisjeartscie.32.1|A new detailed (1:25,000) geological map, cross-sections and descriptions are presented of a large part of Joyces Country, consisting of Connemara Dalradian Schists unconformably overlain by both Silurian (Upper Llandovery to Wenlock) and Carboniferous (Tournaisian to Lower Visean) rocks; only the edge of the last has been mapped. The Dalradian rocks contain D2, D3 and D4 folds and are of staurolite to sillimanite grade with late andalusite and cordierite, constrained to between 470 and 463 Ma. Major D3 folds are folded by the D4 Connemara Synform and the complementary D4 Joyces Antiform, which predate the intrusion of the 462 Ma Oughterard Granite. The folding of the Silurian rocks, termed Scandian as it was intra-Silurian, is identified precisely as a short late Wenlock to early Ludlow episode, (430 to 424 Ma; Gradstein
30002491|The disposition of the late Precambrian Dalradian Supergroup of central and southern Donegal, northwest Ireland is largely controlled by the Ballybofey Nappe and associated tectonic slides. Within central Donegal, the Ballybofey Slide is an oblique ductile thrust which translates quartzites, pelites and limestones over relatively homogeneous psammites and psephites in the footwall. Following the formation of the Ballybofey Nappe, secondary, southerly verging folds produce further crustal thickening resulting in lower amphibolite facies metamorphism. Synchronous with the growth of index minerals, the overthickened Dalradian succes- sion underwent heterogeneous deformation associated with ductile extension concentrated in the strain softened mylonites and variable interlayered lithologies in the hangingwall of the Ballybofey Slide. Extensional reactivation of this structure in a oblique down-dip sense, produced a reorientation of the footwall fabrics. Fold axes iflitiated during crustal thickening rotated towards the extensional transport direction which is marked by a secondary mineral lineation with associated extensional fabrics. Ductile collapse along the Ballybofey Slide is part of a regional suite of extensional shears related to gravitational instability induced by the earlier crustal thickening episodes.
30002179|The Sherwood Sandstone Group at Scrabo, Co. Down, Northern Ireland, has been variously interpreted as aeolian or fluviatile. The sedimentological and ichnological data show that these sandstone-dominated facies were deposited within a mixed fluviatile-aeolian regime, in which fluviatile processes were responsible for the majority of the preserved sedimentary sequence. The sequence contains a moderately diverse non-marine ichnofauna comprising the invertebrate trace fossils Biformites, Cruziana/Rusophycus (Isopodichnus), Herpystezoum (Unisulcus), Planolites, 'small arthropod trackways', 'large arthropod trackways' (cf. in part Paleohelcura), and the vertebrate trace fossil Chirotherium? (as well as a number of other, presently unnamed, vertebrate footprints). The recorded ichnofauna greatly increases that previously known from the Irish Triassic, compares favourably with that from the rest of Europe, and represents the only known Irish locality for reptilian trackways.
30002438|The important and distinctive late Wenlock graptolite Monograptus testis (Barrande) has been recovered in isolated, uncompressed form from limestone nodules in the Cape Phillips Formation. Details of the sicula, thecal hoods, spines, and anterolateral processes are very well shown. The isolated morph manifests a much lesser dorsal curvature, and generally possesses thecal spines shorter than those of the typical M. testis. A morph of similar characteristics has been recognized in flattened form in the lower part of the M. testis-Cyrtograptus lundgreni Biozone in the Arctic Islands.
30002326|Sir Charles Lewis Glesecke (1761-1833), who was born in Germany, became a mineralogist after a diversity of careers He spent seven years in Greenland from 1806 and amassed large collections of minerals, including the rare species cryolite and sapphirine. These collections were dispersed during his lifetime and are now found in a number of institutions in Europe. He donated a collection and catalogue to Trinity College, Dublin, in 1824, but until recently this material remained unrecognised Rediscovery in 1994 of the catalogue, which lists 149 specimens from Greenland and Norway, has led to the recognition of nearly one-third of the material to date in the present holdings of the Geological Museum in Trinity College.
irisjeartscie.33.55|The island of Gola, offshore north-west County Donegal, Ireland, shows a range of geomorphic and sedimentary features of Pleistocene and Holocene age, but hitherto these features have not been described. This study reports on the main glacigenic (Pleistoceneage) and coastal (Holocene) geomorphic features, their associated sediments and their environmental interpretations in the context of regional Pleistocene and Holocene climate change. The contemporary geomorphology of Gola is strongly controlled by its underlying geology and Pleistocene glacial history (which includes its paraglacial inheritance), and its exposed Atlantic-facing location.
irisjeartscie.33.35|Geological mapping of the Upper Devonian succession on the northern side of Grab-all Bay in Cork Harbour has led to a new interpretation of the local lithostratigraphy. Rocks previously mapped as the Ballyknock Member of the Gyleen Formation are now reassigned to the Toe Head Sandstone Formation which is here divided into two new members, the Rams Head and Grab-all Bay Members and to the Old Head Sandstone Formation. The axis of the Grab-all Bay Syncline is re-positioned 160m further to the north in Grab-all Bay, revealing a younger and previously undescribed interval of strata here assigned to the Old Head Sandstone Formation. Miospore assemblages recorded from the Toe Head Sandstone and the lower part of the Old Head Sandstone Formation are assigned to the
23486683|In 1960 P.T. Walsh discovered a small outlier of Upper Cretaceous chalk at Ballydeenlea to the north of Killarney, Co. Kerry. The background to the discovery is explained, and evidence is presented suggesting that M.F. O'Meara of the Geological Survey of Ireland may have visited the site in July 1942, eighteen years before Walsh drew the attention of the geological world to Ballydeenlea.
30002432|The Upper Visan section south of Kilticlogher has been studied and collections of goniatites have been made, in particular from the Sheena Shale Member of the Bellavally Formation (
30002543|The acronym RIGS stands for Regionally Important Geological and Geomorphological Sites. RIGS can be defined as any geological or geomorphological sites (excluding the statutory Sites of Special Scientific Interest) considered to be worthy of protection for their educational, research, historical or aesthetic importance. RIGS are broadly analogous to non-statutory wildlife sites. This paper describes the development and achievements of the RIGS initiative in Great Britain, using a range of examples. It concludes by suggesting how the earth science community in Northern Ireland might establish a RIGS group.
23489014|There is substantial evidence to suggest that Ireland during the Tertiary Period was subject to a period of intense chemical weathering. Two exposures illustrating this environment in western Ireland are described, adding to the known examples of this type of weathering elsewhere in Ireland. The surface features of quartz sand grains may be used to distinguish the environments through which they have passed during transport and deposition. Quartz-grain surface features photographed by a scanning electron microscope are described from a sediment facies, 10,000 years old, retrieved from cores taken from beneath the floor of Galway Bay. Many of these show the action of glacial activity by characteristic fracture patterns, as might be expected in Holocene sediment in an Irish context. Some of the grains, however, show features that suggest a prior aeolian component to their transport history. These grains are compared with quartz grains previously described and with the product of Tertiary Period weathering recovered from a sand pit at Pollnahallia, Co. Galway. Similarities suggest that some of the sand grains found at depths of 25m beneath the substrate surface of Galway Bay may have originated from chemical weathering and aeolian transport during the late Tertiary Period and then been reworked in glacial and subsequent deltaic environments.
23489011|New geological mapping in the centre of the Galway Granite at Camus, Co. Galway, reveals a major northsouth thrust zone, the Furnace Thrust, typically dipping east at 35, which thrust up westward deeper-crystallised granite, including two minor late intrusions, on top of a higher-level granite footwall. Al-in-hornblende geobarometry of the footwall and the hanging wall confirms the thrusting. At 2km east of the thrust, both the footwall and the hanging wall of the thrust sheet were later substantially further uplifted by the steeper Shannawona Fault. At 6km east of this fault, the granite contains post-400395Ma, pre-370378Ma thrusts that moved south-eastward, so a major block of the deep 400395Ma Megacrystic Granite has been squeezed upward. This granite still farther east was later uplifted more by the steep Shannapheasteen Fault, which is connected with the late (?380Ma) central intrusion of the Shannapheasteen Granite, which pushed its roof upward. The uplift of the Central Block with its deeply crystallised Megacrystic Granite was therefore the result of thrusts and faults connected in a complex way with the coeval intrusive pressures of the late emplacement of the Shannapheasteen Granite and six other late granites. All seven late granites are confined to the Central Block and, having low densities, exerted protracted buoyancy uplift forces. This modifies the previous partly correct, but mechanically difficult, explanation for the origin of the Central Block of the Galway Batholith.
30002444|The south-west of Ireland is an area in the European Variscides where the surface geology can provide constraints on geophysical models of deep Variscan (and Caledonian) tectonic structures. The VARNET (VARiscan NETwork) project has acquired new wide-angle seismic reflection, magnetotelluric (MT) and gravity data collected in south-west Ireland in order to integrate these with surface geological observations and tectonic models from Ireland and other parts of the European Variscides. This paper is concerned with the interpretation of VARNET MT data collected across the major tectonic structure seen at the surface: the Killarney-Mallow Fault Zone. The MT data have identified a near-surface conductive zone associated with the east-west-trending Killarney-Mallow Fault Zone. The inversion of these data along three profiles across the Killarney-Mallow Fault Zone and the eastern end of Dingle Bay indicates the presence of steep, probably north-dipping structures, extending to depths of at least 2km. There is also prima facie MT evidence for a steep structure near the Cork-Kenmare Line and a steep, north-dipping structure associated with the Dingle Bay-Galtee Mountains Line. The locations of these structures appear to be consistent with those interpreted from the wide-angle seismic reflection data.
30002421|The Powerscourt Deerpark Cave is a small cave situated on the eastern side of the Wicklow Mountains. The cave has formed within coarse ferruginous conglomerate on the footwall of the Bray Thrust that bounds the western edge of the Calary Plateau. The conglomerate consists of poorly sorted angular-to-well-rounded clasts of phyllite, vein quartz, greywacke and granite weakly cemented by goethite. We propose that the Powerscourt Conglomerate (our new name) is composed of fluvial gravels that became trapped in the easily eroded Bray Thrust during the earlier Cenozoic. The existence of the Powerscourt Conglomerate does not support or undermine the idea of normal faulting and scarp retreat on land, related to topographic subsidence in the nearby Kish Bank Basin during the earlier Cenozoic. The cave is a rare example of pseudokarst development, typical of tropical climates.
30002473|In the north of Ireland the two largest exposures of Lower Old Red Sandstone comprise the Fintona block which contains a sequence more than 3.5 km thick and the Curlew Mountain district where about 1.7 km of rock is preserved. These terrestrial deposits have a comparable stratigraphy and comprise alluvial fan conglomerates and fine grained alluvial plain sandstones and mudstones that are locally interbedded with lavas and volcanogenic conglomerates. This debris accumulated in the Fintona and Curlew Basins which share an overall similarity in sedimentary history and tectonic setting with the Lower Old Red Sandstone deposits of northeast Ireland (the Antrim Basin) and of the northern side of the Midland Valley of Scotland (the Strathmore Basin). These Scottish and Irish rocks are probably of similar age and accumulated in basins that developed along the southern faulted margin of the uplifted Caledonian mountains.
30002451|This paper describes the results of two marine gravity surveys undertaken by the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies and the Institut ffir Geophysik, University of Hamburg. The surveys cover a large part of the continental shelf to the west of Ireland and east of the Rockall and Porcupine basins between latitudes 51.2N and 55.2N. The two data sets have been combined with the land data of the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies to produce a unified gravity anomaly map of the west of Ireland and its continental shelf. The offshore extension of various onshore anomalies, notably those due to Caledonian granites and Carboniferous basins, are delineated by the new map.
30002424|The Shannawona Fault Zone is a critical region of the Galway Batholith, juxtaposing deep-level Central Block lithologies against shallower-level granites of the Western Block. This paper presents results of the first detailed field mapping of the Shannawona Fault Zone between Casla Bay and Lackadunna Hill. Here the Shannawona Fault is not a discrete structure, but bifurcates and conjoins repeatedly to form an anastomosing fault system. Minor fault-bounded blocks defined by this fault system are lithologically associated with the Western Block New geobarometric studies undertaken in the area reveal a contrast of >1kbar in crystallisation pressures across the main Shannawona Fault, as identified from the field mapping Geobarometry indicates that the minor fault-bounded blocks originated at depths similar to the Western Block.
30002474|Two thick doleritic sills have been encountered in an exploration well drilled approximately 150 km off southwest Ireland at a depth of about 4,000 m. Petrographic, mineralogical and chemical analyses, and K-Ar age determinations were carried out on a 2 m long spot core from the uppermost contact. The dolerite is tholeiitic and consists of plagioclase (labradorite-bytownite), ophitic augite and altered olivine. The apparent minimum intrusion age is 25.8  2.6 my. (uppermost Oligocene). The country rock is a layered, partly chertified, micro-crystalline, chalky limestone of Albian age. Contact metamorphic minerals include wollastonite, vesuvianite, garnet and clinopyroxene. The presence of Tertiary intrusives near the well location had been predicted. It is suggested that they are genetically related to similar intrusives of the same age which outcrop on the Dingle Peninsula, southwest Ireland.
30002423|The Leinster Coalfield is the largest of the onshore coalfields in southern Ireland. Topographically and geologically the coalfield is an upland basin and the Westphalian sediments occupy the centre of the coalfield, while the older Namurian sediments form the rim. The Westphalian succession is approximately 320m thick and is subdivided into three lithostratigraphic formations: in ascending stratigraphic order these are the Moyadd Coal Formation, the Clay Gall Sandstone Formation and the Coolbaun Coal Formation. The latter formation is formally defined here and described, together with several new lithostratigraphic members. The first palynological study of the Westphalian strata in the coalfield has been carned out. The lower part of the Westphalian succession has been sampled palynologically from a stream section in the north of the coalfield, while the rest of the Westphalian strata have been sampled from three boreholes situated in the centre of the coalfield. Forty two miospore taxa have been identified from thirty productive samples. The miospore assemblages recorded are assigned to the Triquitrites sinani - Cirratriradites saturni (SS) and Radiizonates aligerens (RA) biozones (Clayton et al. 1977) of Westphalian A (Langsettian) age. The stratigraphically important species Radiizonates aligerens first occurs within the Double Fireclay Member in the lower part of the Coolbaun Coal Formation. The SS / RA Miospore Biozonal boundary in the Leinster Coalfield is shown to closely correlate with the Lenisulcata-Communis non-marine bivalve Chronozone boundary.
30002258|Biostratigraphical correlations utilising miospores and conodonts demonstrate major changes of thickness and facies in rocks of Courceyan age in the Cloyne Syncline, on the west side of Cork Harbour. The Courtmacsherry Formation, of late Siphonodella Biozone age, is very thin, partly because of intra-Courceyan erosion. In the east, at Ringaskiddy, Waulsortian Limestone started to form early in the Polygnathus communis carina Biozone and continued to grow into the Scaliognathus anchoralis Biozone, when it was replaced by the limestone and chert of the Loughbeg Formation. Six km to the west the Waulsortlan Limestone is replaced by a thinner succession, comprising bedded crinoidal limestone of the Ballysteen Formation and the overlying Loughbeg Formation. Approximately 1 km farther west, the P. c. carina and Sc. anchoralis Biozones are absent. The northern margin of the South Munster Basin was maintained in nearly the same position over a long period of time and was controlled by structure at depth. It was not a straight east-west line in the Cork Harbour region but in places trended northwest along what are now seen as Hercynian faults.
25780696|The Cuilcagh Dyke in Co. Fermanagh forms part of the NWSE trending DonegalKingscourt dyke swarm. Dykes in this swarm, along with others in the Irish Tertiary Igneous Province, are associated with negative magnetic anomalies. Segments of the Cuilcagh Dyke have these negative magnetic anomalies but some parts have been found to be associated with positive magnetic anomalies. Susceptibility measurements also show significant variations along the dyke. Palaeomagnetic investigations suggest that parts of the dyke formed during a period of reverse polarity, similar to the rest of the Irish Tertiary Igneous Province, and parts formed during normal polarity conditions. The Cuilcagh Dyke is unique in Ireland in that it is the only known dyke to possess both normal (positive) and reverse (negative) polarity magnetic characteristics.
30002502|Four granite varieties have been recognised in the Blackstairs Unit of the Leinster Granite: the Graiguenamanagh Granite, the Porphyritic Microcline Granite, the dominant Non-Porphyritic Granite and the Type 1 Granite. Intrusion was controlled by the pre-existing steeply dipping regional cleavage, and resulted in a sheeted pluton with elongate schist lenses, probably representing roof pendants penetrating the whole of the pluton. The Graiguenamanagh Belt is considered to be a well exposed of this sheeted pluton rather than a major structural zone separating the Blackstairs and Tullow Units of the Leinster Granite, as was previously thought. The surrounding Cambro-Ordovician Ribband Group sediments underwent regional greenschist-facies metamorphism with the development of a regional cleavage, Sla. Intrusion of the granite then produced a thermal aureole within which sillimanite, garnet, staurolite, andalusite and biotite were developed. Diapiric expansion of the granite tightened and sheared the existing cleavage to produce a new cleavage, Slb, parallel to Sla; it also produced an internal granite foliation. Three phases of crenulation cleavage and chevron folding (D2, D3 and D4) followed and finally some kink bands were formed. Two generations of faults have been recognised.
30002392|New
30002436|Five exploration holes drilled between 1959 and 1981 to depths ranging from 183 m to 2880 m in the Belfast-Lame area are described. These, along with regional geophysical information published between 1971 and 1988 have proved extensive evaporites and indicate the presence of fault-bounded reservoirs within the Permo-Trias.. A gas-show was recorded in one drill-hole although hydrocarbon source rocks have not yet been found in the subsurface of the area. Several sites are suggested for hydrocarbon exploration along with the recommendation that one be drilled at least through the complete Upper Palaeozoic sequence. In an attempt to extend the correlation of the Permian beyond the immediate Belfast area, five more-distant boreholes are briefly described and some hitherto confidential information on two additional boreholes near Belfast has been made available for publication.
30002495|The biostratigraphy and palaeonbiogeography of the coral faunas of the Lower Silurian succession in the Charlestown inlier, County Mayo, are discussed. Coral faunas are restricted in the fine sandstone lithology of the Cloonnamna Formation, but more common and highly diversified in the Uggool Limestone Member at the base of the formation. The fine sandstones contain the Palaeocyclus porpita  Favosites multipora association, widespread in similar lithologies in the circum-lapetus area where it is dated as of late Telychian (Lower Silurian) crenulata Biozone age. The Uggool Limestone Member contains 25 identifiable coral species together with 3 stromatoporoids, most known only from one to three specimens. The fauna indicates an early crenulata or possibly griestoniensis Biozone age and contains a mix of species of Laurentian and Avalonian affinities.
30002208|Two separate records of trinucleid trilobites in the Kilbride Formation of south Mayo and the Knockshigowna inlier of County Tipperary have been reinvestigated. Both are anomalous since trinucleids are generally considered not to have survived the end-Ordovician extinction event. Although no specimens were traced from Knockshigowna, the Kilbride Formation specimen definitely belongs to the trinucleid genus Tretaspis. However, sufficient doubts are demonstrated to discount an extended range for the trinucleids into the Silurian.
30002369|The Carboniferous fenestrate bryozoan Hemitrypa hibernica M'Coy is redescribed. Zoaria consist of two parallel interconnected meshworks. The main, lower, meshwork is similar to that of Fenestella Lonsdale, and consists of a reticulate meshwork of branches connected by regularly spaced dissepiments, with branches bearing two rows of autozooecia. The upper meshwork, termed the superstructure, forms a reticulate hexagonal latticework. It is supported above the obverse surface of the main meshwork by a single row of regularly spaced nodes along the midlines of branches, and is composed of outer, laminated, secondary skeleton. The superstructure grew by the fusion of bar-like lateral outgrowths from adjacent nodes, involving a complex system of bifurcation and convergence of geometrically opposed bars. Autozooecial polypides most probably functioned between the obverse branch surface and the superstructure, and the superstructure gave protection to the feeding polypides beneath by providing a surface deterrent to predators.
30002335|The evolution of REE profiles in the late-Caledonian Galway granite is studied using 26 surface and 13 borehole core samples that cover the range of granodiorites, granites and leucogranites present in the main exposure of the batholith located on the north side of Galway Bay in the west of Ireland. The behaviour of the REE with granite evolution is established with reference to Si, Ti, Zr and Sr as fractionation indices. The granodiorites and granites display light REE rich patterns and the more evolved leucogranites are relatively depleted in light REE and Eu and enriched in heavy REE. Light REE and especially Eu concentrations are markedly depleted in two of the leucogranites  they also exhibit significant heavy REE enrichment and thus display gull-winged REE profiles. It is argued that a major factor controlling the behaviour of REE in the Galway granite is the timing of accessory phase crystallisation i.e. light REE depletion due to the early crystallization (in less evolved granites) of light REE rich phases (e.g. allanite) whereas the late crystallization of xenotime, monazite, thorite and uraninite is in response to enrichment of heavy REE, Y, U and Th in the residual melts (i.e. the leucogranites). The spatial association of fluorite, topaz and tourmaline with the leuogranites that exhibit dramatic gull-winged REE profiles suggests that volatiles (F-complexes in the melt) and/or late-stage hydrothermal fluids played a role in contributing to the observed REE abundances in these two leucogranites. The distribution of REE with depth in one of these leucogranites (i.e. Costelloe Murvey granite) suggests a decreasing degree of fractionation with depth and/or more intense hydrothermal alteration near the exposed surface of this leucogranite.
30002433|Miospore assemblages are described from the Lispatrick and White Strand Formations in the South Munster Basin. South County Cork, Ireland. The assemblages are poorly to moderately preserved and generally restricted in composition. In terms of palynofacies they are considered to represent a distal source microflora. This interpretation equates well with the marine starved basin and turbidite environments of the two formations. Stratigraphically, the miospores from the Lispatrick Formation are of limited value but confirm the previously assigned Visan age for this formation. However, miospores from the White Strand Formation are more diagnostic and indicate that this formation is exclusively Namurian (
30002372|Ostracoda from the Suborder Podocopina, superfamily Cytheracea, families Cytherideidae, Cytheruridae and Limnocytheridae are described from the Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous of the Fastnet Basin, offshore southwest Ireland. Altogether, twenty-two species of thirteen genera were recorded, seven of which are new; Asciocythere celticensis, Asciocythere compressa, Asciocythere posterorotunda, Habrocythere triebeli, Schuleridea ventrospinosa, Schuleridea unispinata and Cytheropterina colini.
30002391|The late Devonian Munster Basin of southern Ireland is a large, extensional basin in which igneous rocks are important but volumetrically minor. Those exposed in the western Iveragh Peninsula comprise doleritic intrusions, volcanic breccias and acidic tuffs. The deeper doleritic sills show ophitic textures with coarser patches representing crystallisation in the magma chamber, and a finer matrix indicating hypabyssal crystallisation with hydrous metamorphism. These deeper sills intruded and baked lithified sediments, but shallower sills, with which they are physically continuous, were emplaced into non-lithified sediments and show considerable alteration and peperitic textures. Locally, a volcanic breccia was produced where one of these high-level intrusions broke surface. Some 60-80m higher stratigraphically, a thick (4-10m) rhyodacitic tuff is present which extends at least 13km across strike. This Keel Tuff Bed forms a local time-marker which allows determination of lateral facies changes. Geochemical analysis shows that the dolerites are typically tholeiitic, and trace element data suggest that the acidic magma sourcing the Keel Tuff Bed may have been produced by fractionation. These igneous rocks formed during a period of stretching which characterised the early history of the Munster Basin. The precise location of the igneous rocks may be controlled by major faults.
30002540|We present evidence of a relict protalus rampart on the south-facing flank of Macgillycuddy's Reeks, south-west Ireland. Our interpretation is based on its geomorphic similarities with actively forming landforms in Alpine environ- ments and on its compliance with the criteria widely believed to be diagnostic of protalus ramparts. The landform is considered to have formed during the Younger Dryas because it lies within the reconstructed glacial limits of the Glenavy Stadial and outside the local Younger Dryas glacial limits. Estimates of annual rockwall retreat rates durinng the Younger Dryas Stadial, based on the volume of protalus rampart debris, vary between 1 3mm and 1 95mm per year.
42909766|Polyfenestella Bancroft, 1986, is a distinctive Mississippian fenestrate bryozoan, characterised by the presence of two heteromorphs. Micro-computed tomography is a useful non-destructive technique with application to fenestrate bryozoan taxonomic studies, and it has confirmed that lateral heterozooecia in Polyfenestella are morphologically distinctive from adjacent autozooecia, which they superficially resemble. Polyfenestella is shown to be a valid and robust genus.
25469708|Microscopic teeth of the chondrichthyan genera Denaea and Protacrodus together with a number of unclassified microscopic teeth attributed to 'Chondrichthyan Pavement Dentition' are described from the Mississippian (Tournaisian) rocks of Ireland. These have not been described before from Ireland. The microscopic teeth were extracted from crinoidal limestones or calcareous mudstones whose palaeoenvironments are interpreted as ranging from relatively deep offshore, through moderately shallow high-energy carbonate shelf to nearshore shallow water. The richest fauna has been recovered from the high-energy carbonate shelf facies with the 'cladodont' type only appearing within this facies, together with more numerous crushing dentition type teeth. The symmoriid and protacrodontid teeth are described to genus level, while the remaining crushing teeth are left in open nomenclature.
ijes.2016.34.1|The boundary between the Carboniferous sedimentary rocks and the igneous and metamorphic rocks of the Connemara basement between Galway and Oughterard has been described, either all or in part, as an unconformity or a fault known as the Oughterard Fault. We present new data on the geology of this boundary. A significant faulted contact in the Moycullen area is described for the first time and integrated with other new and existing data to form a reassessment of the nature of the boundary. Arguments for the presence of a fault or unconformity are posited. It is concluded that the whole length of the boundary is faulted. Finally, an exploration of possible extensions to the boundary fault is presented. It is suggested that the fault zone could extend southwards into the Gort Lowlands, and, at the northern end, it may be linked to the Maam Valley Faults.
30002538|Serpentinite olistoliths occur in a demonstrably pre-tectonic, synsedimentary melange within Upper Argyll Group rocks of the Dalradian Supergroup in the southern part of Achill Island, Co. Mayo Interbedded volcanic rocks and stratiform sulphide horizons support correlations with other occurrences of serpentinite olistoliths at similar stratigraphic levels within the Dalradian of Ireland and Scotland. Within the ocean-continent transition of many rifted continental margins a zone of serpentinised peridotite is inferred to occur under thinned continental crust and at the West Iberian margin is actually exposed. Progressive extension during continent break-up produces a decrease in pressure and temperature within the crust until eventually all of the crust lies within the brittle regime. Active extensional faults can then facilitate the movement of the large volumes of water required for serpentinisation from the surface down into the mantle. The occurrence of serpentinite and associated ultramafic detritus at a similar stratigraphic level in the Dalradian during a phase of pronounced extension is interpreted as a result of serpentinite protrusion up these active faults and into the Dalradian basin, with the faults tapping a zone of serpentinised mantle inferred at relatively shallow depth.
30002188|A well-preserved rhabdosome of the dendroid graptolite Dictyonema cf. pentlandica is described and illustrated from the Kilbride Formation (Upper Llandovery) on the Kilbride Peninsula, western Ireland. The rhabdosome was probably attached to the shell of a Leptaena, which is found in close association. Benthic graptolites were a rare constituent of the deep-water palaeocommunities of the upper part of the Kilbride Formation during the latest Llandovery; the Silurian geographical range of D. pentlandica is extended from the eastern part of the Midland Valley of Scotland to western Ireland.
30002367|Silicified, pentameric pelmatozoan pluricolumnals from the upper Arenig Tourmakeady Limestone of County Mayo probably belong to inadunate crinoids. All are poorly preserved as axial canal infills. Five morphospecies are present. These fossils exhibit primitive features such as rotational and longitudinal offset of the meres. In contrast, the earliest known column with a pentastellate axial canal is found at Tourmakeady. This represents a more advanced stem morphology which became common in the Ashgill on both sides of the Iapetus Ocean.
23486680|William Bookey Brownrigg, who discovered the Upper Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian) vertebrate fossils at Jarrow Colliery, Co. Kilkenny in 1864, published a short paper on the material. Shortly afterwards E.P. Wright, a zoologist from Trinity College Dublin, contacted Thomas Henry Huxley with a view to publishing a full description of the material. In November 1865 Huxley wrote to Brownrigg about his involvement and in his reply Brownrigg agreed to Huxley describing the material. Ultimately, when it came to the publication of the fossil fauna, Brownrigg was side-lined. Brownrigg's letter to Huxley is transcribed here.
ijes.2017.35.19|The Mullaghmore Sandstone Formation of north-west Ireland is a distinctive clastic unit of late Arundian age in an otherwise carbonate-dominant Mississippian succession. The distinctive base is erosive in the more proximal sections but is gradational in the successions deposited further offshore from the pre-Mullaghmore shoreline. The source area lay to the north-west and is interpreted to be dominated by felsic igneous and/or high grade metamorphic rocks due to the presence of large, first cycle feldspars that are common in all of the sandstones. The formation was deposited in the coastal zone with both fluvial and marginal marine deposits present in almost all sections. The fluvial channel deposits are most common in north-western sections and commonly show evidence for tidal currents in the coastal zone. Most of the coastal sediments are dominated by wave-generated structures. The formation is interpreted as the deposits of a deltaic coastal plain that was lobate in plan view. The top of the formation is interpreted as a regional transgressive surface. While there is local autocyclic repetition of facies, no higher-order sequences are detectable on a regional scale. The driving mechanisms for this regional lowstand are most likely regional tectonics rather than glacioeustasy, as the event is not readily correlated over any significant distance.
30002489|The geology and geochemistry of tourmaline from nine localities along the margin of the Leinster Granite in southeast Ireland have been studied. Four distinct types of tourmaline occurrence are defined: (1) tourmaline in quartz-tourmaline rocks, country rock schists and host tonalite intrusions in Li pegmatite complexes; (2) tourmaline in country rock schists and quartz veins, with or without associated aplites and pegmatites, at the Leinster Granite contact; (3) tourmaline in stratiform quartz-tourmaline rocks (tourmalinites); (4) tourmaline in wallrocks and mineralized quartz veins in a W-Sn mineralized microtonalite sheet complex. In the Li pegmatite occurrences, the chemistry of tourmaline, including core-to-rim variation, is shown to reflect control by host rock (country rock schist, tonalite) and/or granitic-pegmatitic fluid. The Ca- and Ti-rich nature of the W-Sn mineralization hosted by microtonalite sheets is mirrored by the variation of these elements, on both small and large scales, in tourmaline. The close correspondence between the chemistry of tourmaline and that of the systems in which it grew confirms its potential as a petrogenetic indicator mineral in southeast Ireland. Tourmaline at the Leinster Granite contact reflects the chemistry of both its host country rock schists and a later, more Fe-rich evolved granitic-pegmatitic fluid. A third, more Mg- and Ca-rich chemical control is also apparent in these tourmalines, however, and this is interpreted as evidence for migration at the Leinster Granite contact of a fluid, possibly formation water, in the late stage of the granite crystallization history.
30002311|Precambrian rocks of Britain, Ireland and the adjacent continental shelf and Atlantic plateaux are important in tectonic reconstructions for the north Atlantic region. Until recently, knowledge of these regions has been based on poor-quality geochronology, Nd model ages or geological inferences alone. Now single-grain and small-fraction U-Pb abraded zircon geochronology has established a well-constrained chronology for the Annagh Gneiss Complex of north-west Mayo, Ireland. This chronology supports and extends recent attempts to correlate Precambrian events between Laurentia and Baltica. Much of the Annagh Gneiss Complex originated as juvenile Palaeoproterozoic crust represented by the
30002425|The zeolite group minerals brewsterite-Ba and harmotome occur as minor latestage primary phases in the low-temperature Pb-Zn veins at Glendalough and Glendasan, Co. Wicklow. Brewsterite-Ba was identified on a single specimen from the Old Luganure Mine. Harmotome occurs at the Glendalough Mine, the Foxrock Mine and the Old Luganure Mine. Quantitative analyses of crystals of brewsterite-Ba reveal the most barium-rich composition yet reported: (
30002478|Minor uranium-vanadium mineralization is recorded in Permo-Triassic red beds in Northern Ireland. The cores of reduction spots in red mudrocks at Belfast contain the uranium silicate coffinite, vanadium-rich detrital mica, the authigenic vanadian mica roscoelite, and a vanadium oxide phase. Mineralization may have been facilitated by the mixing of meteoric and saline connate fluids during early diagenesis.
30002317|Well-preserved, silicified specimens of Leptagonia analoga (Phillips), acid-etched from a single thin bed of Arundian (mid-Dinantian) limestone from Lough Carra, Co. Mayo, are described in detail, with particular emphasis on their ontogenetic development. Populations of Leptagonia contain two quite different morphs within a single ontogenetic series, adapted for two different life modes. The presence of a well-defined pedicle opening, observed in the most juvenile members of the series and persisting in some cases to subadult growth stages, implies an initial fixosessile life strategy. During later life the pedicle clearly atrophied and a recumbent strategy within limy mud at the sediment-water interface was probably pursued. Early Carboniferous Leptagonia species are part of evolving lineages recognised principally on the basis of the shapes of the dorsal muscle and ventral platform together with rib densities.
30002342|The Boulder Bed, a fundamental component of Dalradian lithostratigraphy, is a geographically widespread diamictite. In Ireland it has been identified in Connemara, north Mayo and Donegal. Widely interpreted as the product of a late Precambrian low-latitude glaciation, the unit has recently been interpreted as a glaciomarine deposit. In this study, previously documented 'clastic polygons' exposed on bedding planes near the top of the Boulder Bed have been investigated. Their tectonic strain has been quantified and they have been unstrained. The polygons are clastic dykes. Their infill and their host rock are both psammitic, with clasts of vein quartz, 'blue' quartz, quartzite, semipelite and granite. In plan, clasts within the polygons show little alignment. The clastic dykes are wedge-shaped in section and clasts in the wedges show two distinct preferred orientations: parallel to the tectonic fabric, and parallel to the dyke walls. This latter fabric is compelling evidence that the polygons originated as ice wedge casts. In their deformed state, polygon walls at a low angle to the shortening direction are folded, while wedges at a high angle to it are planar and sometimes boudinaged. It is inferred that the upper Boulder Bed in south Donegal was subaerially exposed. Glencolumbkille is in a locus of stratigraphic change and synsedimentary tectonism. Subaerial exposure may reflect a local basin margin emergence in a generally glaciomarine environment.
30002262|John Joly, physicist, geologist and engineer, was perhaps Ireland's most eminent man of science in modern times. His early vocation in the field of experimental physics resulted in such useful inventions as the Joly Photometer, Meldometer and Steam Calorimeter, and the development in 1894 of the first successful process of colour photography from a single plate. As a geologist he is well-known for his theories on the age of the earth which he proved to be far older than the Kelvinists of the day ascertained. This was to lead him to his pioneering work on radioactivity and pleochroic haloes and in later life to the topic which afforded him the greatest satisfaction, the 'Dublin Method' of radium therapy for cancer sufferers. His last 'Theory of Thermal Cycles', served as the starting point for the modern revival of theories of continental drift.
30002505|Intensely-metamorphosed conodonts have been recovered from the aureoles of three basic intrusions in Northern England: the Little Whin Sill, the Beadnell Dyke, and the Holy Island Dyke. The colours displayed by these conodonts range up to Colour Alteration Index 8 of Epstein et al. (1977) as contacts are approached. Electron-microprobe investigations of the mineral phase (francolite) show only small changes in inorganic composition, the most significant of which is reduction in sodium content with increasing metamorphism. Scanning Electron Microscopy of metamorphosed conodonts reveals a consistent but form-variable sequence of structural alteration and recrystallization, related to enclosing sediment fabric, gross conodont morphology, and original microstructure.
25780705|Fossil marine reptile material is described from the restricted outcrops of Lower Jurassic strata exposed in Ireland. The remains consist of a single isolated fragment of rostrum from an ichthyosaur and two blocks of matrix that contain disarticulated and weathered plesiosaur vertebrae, rib fragments and a putative ilium. Although fragmentary and indeterminate, this material is a rare and significant occurrence of marine reptiles in Ireland and provides additional data on the distribution of ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs in Europe during the Jurassic Period.
30002383|New major and trace element data (including REE) are presented for Tertiary basalts from the Binevenagh area, County Londonderry. These lavas are thought likely from field evidence to be contemporaneous with the Upper Basalt Formation (U.B.F) elsewhere in northeast Ireland but their trace element characteristics more closely resemble those of the Lower Basalt Formation (L.B.F.). It is tentatively proposed that the Binevenagh basalts were derived from a largely undepleted mantle source in contrast to the depleted source for the U.B.F. in Antrim.
30002282|Freshwater Ostracoda are analysed from lake chalk ('marl') deposits from Lough Boora, Co. Offaly, Ireland, a site with associated Mesolithic archaeology. Ostracod analysis provides a clear record of alternation between deep-water and shallow-boggy lacustrine phases, prior to basin closure by peat deposition. Samples from the Woodgrange Interstadial also are discussed. Lough Boora shows a clear transition between the Last Glaciation late-Glacial and post-Glacial ostracod faunas established first by Absolon and further establishes the utility of these species associations in fauna-based palaeoenvironmental analyses.
30002283|The granite of Trawenagh Bay, Co. Donegal, forms a distinctive lobe of the Main Donegal Granite. It differs from the Main Granite in several respects, including its cross-cutting character, the relative homogeneity of its monzogranite components, the lack of septa and trains of enclaves, the virtual absence of deformation, and its negligible contact effects. It is shown to have the form of a multipulse sheet, 2-3km thick and dipping gently northwards. Its formation was the latest episode in the assembly of the Main Granite. Of its three pulse units, an outer and an inner unit both carry muscovite-rich roof phases, whilst a central intrusion of microgranite probably represents the exposed tip of a third sheet-like unit. The relationship of the lobe to the Main Granite is one of multiple sheeting into an already sheeted body. A model is proposed in which the lobe resulted from the permissive infilling of a pull-apart opening in the flanks of the sinistral shear zone which controlled the emplacement of the Main Granite.
30002341|Deformation within 'internal' portions of orogenic belts may be successively partitioned, on a variety of scales, into narrow horizons of translation centred within earlier and broader zones of displacement. This process is illustrated along the Central Donegal Slide, north-west Ireland, by the gradual, transport-parallel rotation of shear bands into discrete shear planes parallel to the mylonitic foliation. Intensification and rotation of shear bands on a centimetric to decametric scale results in listric shear geometries, which ultimately coalesce to form a composite foliation indistinguishable from the preexisting mylonitic fabric. Later generations of shear bands with similar geometries subsequently transect, overprint and extend this compound foliation. Within tectonic schists marking the locus of intense deformation along the Central Donegal Slide, the axes of shear bands are orthogonal to the mineral lineation, while in neighbouring regions of lower strain the axes are oblique to the transport direction. Shear bands with axes normal to the transport direction and contiguous with the Central Donegal Slide are considered to represent the latest generation to develop as deformation becomes increasingly discrete and localised. These relationships elucidate the temporal and spatial evolution of strain partitioning processes across the ductile thrust zone.
30002204|This paper presents a detailed description of the buried bedrock profile and Quaternary valley fill deposits of the Glenmalure valley as determined from electrical resistivity surveying and borehole drilling. Spatial variations in the depth to the buried bedrock floor indicate greater measured depths of erosion within the main granite body and, in particular, immediately upvalley of the granite-schist contact. In profile this appears as a saucer-shaped 'rock basin', the downvalley lip of which is developed within a narrow belt of metamorphic rocks, thus producing a significant reverse bedrock gradient from the granites to the schists. Thick sequences of fine-grained silts and clays, which are locally exclusive to this rock basin, indicate the presence of a Pleistocene palaeolake in Glenmalure. The findings of this study are discussed within the context of earlier interpretations of the topographic features of the Wicklow Glens.
30002381|The systematic position of the acanthocladiid fenestrate genus Ptylopora M'Coy is reviewed, and on the basis of external lateral branch morphology it is proposed to reassign Ptylopora to the Fenestellidae. An emended diagnosis of Ptylopora is given and the type species Ptylopora pluma M'Coy is redescribed.
30002396|Fandasterias facetus n. gen. and sp. (Asteroidea; Echinodermata) is described from the Tournasian (Carboniferous) of Ireland. Enlarged disc ossicles of uncertain functional significance are unique. The derivation of crown-group asteroids is an important but unresolved question in echinoderm palaeontology. In Fandasterias, quadriseriate podial basins and an internal odontophore in adults are shared with the Ordovician genus Promopalaeaster and certain post-Palaeozoic members of the crowngroup. Based on phylogenetic analysis incorporating conservative ambulacral column patterns, basin arrangement and the internal odontophore are homoplastic, and Fandasterias is not assignable to the crown-group, although arguably at least one Late Palaeozoic asteroid is. Promopalaeaster and Fandasterias might have been functionally similar, but both represent extinct lineages not ancestral to extant asteroids.
30002536|A basaltic cobble found on the beach at Ballinskelligs, Co. Kerry, is described and shown to be remarkably similar in its petrography and chemistry to tephrite from Vesuvius-Somma in Italy. The cobble is believed to have been transported from Italy as ballast in a sailing vessel. The ship's passengers may have been making a pilgrimage to nearby Skellig Michael.
30002448|The Galway Granite is singular among the Irish latest Caledonian (-400Ma) batholiths for the number and variety of syn- and post-consolidation sheet intrusions. The most numerous and persistent are microphyric dacitic dikes, typically arranged in sets trending N-NNE, perpendicular to the long axis of the batholith. The sets cut the eastern and western blocks of the batholith, in contrast to their absence from the uplifted and eroded central block. Dacite geochemistry is similar to that of the megacrystic granodiorite that comprises the greater part of the batholith. However, the longer dike sets manifest mineralogical and chemical gradients along strike, from rhyodacite at the batholith axis to andesitic dacite outside the batholith. Hybridisation of granitoid magma with a more mafic magma is considered to have produced the dike magmas. Diking was induced by east-west stress relaxation of the batholith, coeval with a final plutonic episode involving high-level intrusion of alkali leucogranite sills. Regional ENE-WNW transcurrent faulting became active before the diking had concluded.
30002481|New petrological and geochemical data are presented for the Tertiary Antrim Lava Group in the Binevenagh-Benbraddagh area of County Londonderry. Using field, petrological and geochemical criteria, groups of flows have been correlated within the area and field evidence is presented to show that the lavas were probably erupted from extensive local vent systems. A petrogenetic scheme is proposed whereby volcanic activity extended westwards from Antrim in Upper Basalt times and the lavas in the Binevenagh-Benbraddagh area are the products of a first melting of a less depleted mantle than that which produced the Upper Basalts in Antrim.
30002527|The stratigraphical distribution of the Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous Ostracoda from the Fastnet Basin, offshore southwest Ireland is discussed, together with their palaeoecological significance. Comparisons with faunas from Northwest Europe are made.
23486678|A NNE-trending porphyritic felsite dyke located on Ben Levy in Co. Galway cross-cuts the EW trending Coolin Fault. The porphyritic felsite is an altered rhyolite containing ocellar feldspar with rare apatite inclusions, quartz phenocrysts as well as minor ilmenite, rutile and zircon, all within a ground-mass of feldspar and quartz. High whole-rock K/Na and Rb/Sr ratios and textural evidence from cathodoluminescence (CL) imaging indicate that the dyke underwent hydrothermal alteration; however, immobile Zr vs TiO 2 for the Ben Levy Dyke is consistent with the trend of values for Galway Batholith dykes. Magmatic crystallization temperatures were calculated as 106714C using Ti-in-zircon thermometry. Quartz phenocrysts may have been affected by diffusive loss of Ti post-emplacement, and record an average temperature of <574C based on Ti-in-quartz thermometry. An age of 373.94.0Ma was determined from laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (LA-ICPMS) UPb isotopic analysis of zircon. The Ben Levy porphyritic felsite is similar in age and orientation to other late-stage dykes which cross-cut the Galway Batholith to the south, and may represent the northernmost extension of late-stage dyke activity. Motion along the Coolin Fault occurred during the Caledonian Orogeny, between deposition of the Lough Kilbride Formation (436428.2Ma) and intrusion of the Ben Levy Dyke at 373.94.0Ma.
30002397|Fine-grained, Late Devensian glaciomarine sediments from 26 sites in the Irish Sea Basin contain an almost exclusively foraminiferal fauna dominated by Elphidium clavatum, Haynesina orbiculare, Cibicides lobatulus and Cibicides fletcheri. This biofacies is typical of shallow-water, Arctic environments where glaciers are in retreat. The relatively well-preserved, cold-water species are accompanied by poorly preserved temperate species, considered to have been reworked from earlier deposits on the sea floor. These include Ammonia batava, Ammonia falsobeccarii, Elphidium crispum and Elphidium species A. Although ice transport and ice marginal reworking occurred during rapid ice withdrawal and produced a mixed fauna basin-wide, subsidiary species show marked geographical variation in distribution. E. nitida is restricted to the south-eastern Ireland stations and E. asklundi is much less numerous on the east side of the basin. The derived temperate element is also much stronger at sites in south-eastern Ireland. Species derived from beds older than the Pleistocene are rare. The largely in situ, cold-water faunal elements provide evidence for extensive glaciomarine conditions during the decay cycle of the Late Devensian Irish Sea glacier. The dominance of Elphidium clavatum assemblages is a signature for a major meltwater event which may be linked to catastrophic release of meltwater to tidewater ice margins when rising sea-level broke the seals around meltwater reservoirs within the main glacier.
23489012|The extent of seawater intrusion in a coastal karstic aquifer system along the southern shore of Galway Bay, western Ireland, was investigated using spatial and temporal variations in major ion chemistry and nutrient levels. The background water was Ca- and bicarbonate-rich with variable concentrations of Mg. In general, higher Mg concentrations were detected in the Gort lowlands region compared with sites in the Burren, likely due to contact with dolomite layers. Nitrate concentrations ranged from 1.3mg/L to 78.5mg/L as NO3, and dissolved organic carbon concentrations ranged from 0.6mg/L to 4.9mg/L, suggesting that anthropogenic contamination due to surface activities occurs at some locations in the study area. Based on salinity values, on Na and Cl concentrations and on Cl/Br mass ratios, five of the 24 operational wells sampled were in a saltwater-influenced zone. Three of these wells contained <0.5% seawater, and the extent of saltwater influence was dependent on seasonal conditions. Water levels were monitored in six unused wells, and at four of these locations groundwater levels responded to the tidal variations in Galway Bay. During the study period, seawater intrusion and/or tidal influence on groundwater levels was found to occur within 5km of the coastline. The inland extent of seawater intrusion on the karst system is dependent on the hydrologic conditions at the time of measurement. The results provide a baseline dataset from which the influence of climatic and environmental changes on the aquifer system can be assessed in the future.
42909765|New records of Solenodendron hibernicum are described from the Chadian of Counties Clare and Donegal, the oldest records of this genus in Ireland. (The term 'Chadian' is used herein rather than the 'Lower Visan' preferred by some authors for this part of the Irish Visean succession.) Solenodendron is referred to the family Aulinidae Hill, 1981, which is elevated herein from subfamilial level. A continuous phylogeny of Solenodendron is proposed from the Courceyan to the Brigantian Substage.
30002488|The Courceyan succession at Slane, County Meath is described and three formal stratigraphic units proposed: the ABC Group of Andrew and Ashton (1985) is renamed the Cruicetown Group, the "red beds" at the base of the succession are named the Baronstown Formation, and the upper, sandstone-rich part of the Moathill Formation is named the St Erc's Member. The Slane succession is compared with the succession at Navan, approximately 15km to the west southwest, and also part of the North Midlands Province (Philcox 1984). Both successions reflect deposition in progressively deepening water. Changes of thickness and facies in the Courceyan succession between Slane and Navan indicate that there was a structural high east of the district during the Courceyan. Thus, a succession typical of the North Midlands Province is not developed between the Balbriggan and Longford-Down Lower Palaeozoic inliers. Several facies and thickness changes affecting the Meath, Slane Castle and Feltrim Formations are attributed to differential subsidence.
irisjeartscie.33.1|The study of human evolution began in earnest with the discovery of fossil human remains in a cave in the Neander Valley of Germany in 1856. William King (18091886), Professor of Geology and Mineralogy at Queen's College Galway, as NUI Galway was then known, obtained a plaster replica of the skullcap and, following careful examination, proposed the name
30002499|The Dinantian and Namurian stratigraphy around Broadstrand (on the east coast of the Seven Heads Peninsula), and Ballinglanna (on the west coast), is described. The Courtmacsherry, Lispatrick, and White Strand Formations, whose type sections are at the old Head of Kinsale, 9.5 km to the east, can be identified at Broadstrand. The Courtmacsherry Formation (208 m) north of Broadstrand consists of basal carbonate beds overlain by a mudrock succession with Courceyan spores and conodonts. The overlying Lispatrick Formation (40 m seen) consists of pyritous mudrock with chert, and yields Visan spores. The White Strand Formation (128 m seen) in the core of the Broadstrand syncline is of Namurian
irisjeartscie.32.50|The Bulls Head Formation is the oldest lithostratigraphic formation in the 2.8km thick Dingle Group (Lower Old Red Sandstone) succession of the Dingle Peninsula. The formation mainly comprises thinly bedded, fine-grained purple-grey sandstones interlaminated with thin mudstone layers (Heterolithic Member) that were deposited in a very extensive shallow lake, here named Lake Blasket. The formation also includes two lake margin sheetflood systems (the Boat Cove and Trabane Members) that are only developed on the northern lake limit. The Bulls Head Formation has been previously assigned a late Silurian (late Ludlow-Pridoli) age. Two spore assemblages obtained from the Trabane Member are assigned to Z Interval Zone of the
30002173|The Binn Chuanna sill is a late-Silurian granitic intrusion into Silurian sediments in north-western Connemara. Petrographically it is composed of inhomogenised quartz-micromonzonite carrying abundant plagioclase microphenocrysts. The mineralogy shows disequilibrium features. Geochemistry reveals an MgO range of 4.8-2.0% for an SiO range of 60-67%, and MgO > CaO in all samples. Adakitic affinities are indicated by both mineralogy and geochemistry. A coeval olivine-augite dolerite dike cuts the western end of the sill. The sill is up to 300m thick and was injected from a NE-SW feeder dike into a 1500m-thick sequence of unlithified turbidites. Its inflation overlapped in time with the tilting of the sedimentary pile. Strain indicators suggest that compressional stress was directed south-eastward, consistent with the NE-ENE trend of numerous syn-intrusive normal faults cutting the sill. It is inferred that late-Silurian silicic and mafic magmas in north-western Connemara were derived from a refractory Mg-rich source, likely subducting oceanic crust at relatively shallow depth. It is postulated that a spreading ridge was active close to the subduction zone along the Connemara sector of the Laurentian margin of the Iapetus Ocean during early Wenlock time.
30002288|An assemblage of deep-water ichnotaxa from the flysch-type deposits of the Arenig in County Wexford is documented. The material is exclusively from the collections of the Geological Survey of Ireland. Trace fossils recorded include Belorhaphe isp., Chondrites cf. acutangulus, ?Chondrites isp., Gordia marina, ?Glockerichnus isp., Megagrapton isp., Palaeophycus tubularis, Paleodictyon cf. imperfectum, Planolites ispp A and B and 'pellet-filled branching burrows'. Documentation of the wide bathymetric ranges of the earliest Palaeozoic ichnotaxa is in its early stages, and understanding the controls remains a major task for palaeontology in the future. This paper adds to the emerging dataset on the diversity of deep-marine ichnofaunas in the Ordovician. Irish Journal of Earth Sciences 17 (1998/9), 103-113.
30002318|Records of holdings of Irish Silurian aptychopsid plates in the collections of the Geological Survey of Ireland are updated.
irisjeartscie.33.77|This paper describes a buried, presumed pre-glacial, channel feature at Newcastle, 20km south-west of Dublin, which was discovered by drilling and geophysics in 1981. It is considered to be fluvial in origin with a possible karstic component. The eastern 2km of the buried channel contains a suite of varied channel sediments which may be of Cenozoic age. These sediment infills have been partly weathered under warm and humid conditions and also contain possibly reworked base metal mineralisation. It is envisaged that the channel may have discharged to the west into the Palogene Portarlington Channel which drained the Thulean Dome situated to the north-east.
30002471|The main ultrastructural elements of the graptolite periderm comprise cortical fibrils, fusellar fibrils, sheet (or membrane) fabrics, electron dense fabrics, and virgular fibrils. These are described in both an historical context and in the light of new micrographs obtained by the authors from both dendroid and graptoloid species. The most striking discoveries concern the virgular fibrils: these are interpreted herein as having a double or treble helix internal structure which closely resembles some modern collagens. Further, it is established that the virgular fibril helical structure also exists in the fusellar fabric fibrils of one species; in the sub-membrane, ordered fibril layer of the fusellar fibrils of two species; and in the cortical fibrils of other species. This establishes that the fibrillar elements of the periderm in the species have the same biochemical nature, namely are forms of collagen; and that the secretory mechanisms are probably the same. The fabrics are likely to have been deposited by the pre-oral lobe of a Rhabdopleura-like zooid. It is considered that the graptolite periderm was built of collagen in various morphological forms for specific purposes. The ectocortical fibrillar bandages were laid down criss-cross fashion to strengthen the whole colony, and were encased in sheet membrane granular fabric to prevent abrasion, chemical or physical, of the collagen fibrils. The endocortical fibrillar bandages, often only one fibril layer thick, were less at risk to external damage and were not protected by sheet or membrane fabric. Fusellar fibrils forming an anastomosing spongy meshwork were used as the basic shaping and building blocks of the colony, and were secreted as complete units with an encasing sheet membrane fabric and, often, a sub-membrane fabric of ordered, more densely packed fibrils. Some of these were certainly virgular fibrils, and exclusion of spongy fusellar fibrils resulted in a dense fibrillar matt of very strong virgular fibrils of particular value where strength was needed in thin rods (nemata; clathrial lists). The spiral substructure, of double or treble helixes, in the virgular fibrils probably reflects fundamental arrangements at the molecular level. Comparisons are made with modern collagens and with the fibrillar component of the modem hemichordate coenecium.
30002542|The Geological Survey of Ireland (GSI) Irish Geological Heritage Programme undertakes, in partnership with Dchas, The Heritage Service, a variety of actions to identify, document, protect and promote the wealth of geological heritage in the Republic of Ireland. The GSI is responsible for the identification of important sites that are capable of being conserved as Natural Heritage Areas, whereas Dchas operates the process of statutory designation and management of sites. The programme has evolved since its initial design in the early 1990s, largely to reflect experience gamed in operating the thematically based process. Examination of the inventory and protection processes operating in other European countries has also contributed to modifications of the methodology outlined here. The philosophy of the programme, its selection criteria and future plans are outlined as an aid to the involvement of the Irish geological community in the site selection process of the programme and other areas of activity.
30002440|Evidence of several types shows rapid and accelerating 'uplift' of essentially all major mountain ranges of the world, albeit each with respect to a different frame of reference. The last few million years of this 'uplift' is simultaneous with the evolution of Homo sapiens, an evolution quantified well by an exponential increase in cranial capacity. Apparently, the rise of mountains challenged adventurous hominids with the instinct to strive for increasingly higher goals, and Homo sapiens, with steadily swelling heads, survived as the fittest.
30002353|The cephalopod fauna described by Portlock from the Killey Bridge Formation is revised, and more recently discovered material described. Although poorly preserved, the fauna is diverse and represented by endocerids, orthocerids, ascocerids, oncocerids, discosoriids, and tarphycerids, all of an upper Ordovician aspect. The abundance of orthocerids representative of the Orthoceratidae in the fauna suggests a relatively offshore site. Evidence is provided for suggesting that other elements of the cephalopod fauna may have been transported (probably during sediment mass-movement) from more inshore sites. The fauna falls within the North American  North European province and, although lacking many elements, appears to show stronger affinities with the 'Arctic' faunas of the Canadian archipelago and the western United States, although factors such as the similar ages of these faunas may also contribute to their apparent affinity.
30002284|The Geological Survey of Ireland is one of the oldest national geological surveys in the world. Its founding superintendent, in 1826, Captain John W. Pringle, was a veteran Royal Engineer officer whose earlier and subsequent military activities have received scant attention from historians. A colonel's son, he made the army his career and served actively both in the Peninsular War and at Waterloo before peace-time unemployment on temporary half-pay and geological training prior to appointment to the Survey in 1826. In 1829 he returned to England, working briefly as an examiner at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, before retiring on grounds of wounds and sickness incurred during earlier military service. In 1847 he married Emily, the daughter of 'Population Malthus', and resigned his fellowship of the Geological Society of London. He died in 1861 at Bath, the city whose abbey contains the funeral memorial of his distinguished father-in-law. His work in Ireland was short-lived and largely unproductive, but it paved the way for the Survey's later, lasting success.
30002296|The Black Ball Head diatreme on the Beara Peninsula (Co. Cork, south-west Ireland) intrudes Lower Carboniferous marine siliciclastic sediments, and comprises an inner and an outer zone of pyroclastic infill. The outer zone is dominated by lithoclasts of local sediments and igneous rocks, whereas the inner zone is characterised by an assemblage of kaersutite, phlogopite and Ti-magnetite megacrysts and ultramafic pyroxenite nodules.
30002530|Results are presented from the study of 12,000 km of reflection seismic data covering the main Porcupine Basin. Important basin-wide reflectors at Top Eocene and Top Chalk levels and at the Late Cimmenrian (Base Cretaceous) unconformity surface allow clear subdivision and mapping of the Mesozoic section. In excess of 8000 m of Mesozoic strata are probably present in the centre of the basin, thinning to less than 2000 m on the basin margins. The dominant trend of the basin margin faults is northsouth. There is a clear subdivision between a Triassic to Lower Cretaceous Graben-Fill sequence, probably deposited mainly on an eroded Upper Palaeozoic surface, and an overlying smoothly-subsiding Interior Sag sequence (Cretaceous-Tertiary) showing hlittle evidence of faulting. The seismic data are of good quality, and examples of fault and rift structures and of sedimentary features such as fans, deltas, and channels are figured.
30002281|Eleven tuffs were sampled from six localities in the South Munster Basin, Ireland. Heavy mineral content and major- and trace-element analysis show evidence of bimodal volcanism, represented by mafic and evolved alkaline compositions. Bulkrock geochemical data and analysis of zircon crystals extracted from the tuffs allow the evolved alkaline tuffs to be subdivided into four distinct chemical groups within the evolved alkaline group and two within the mafic group. Stratigraphical control was based on miospore assemblages obtained, wherever possible, from above and below each tuff, using the biozone zonation for south-western Ireland. Three groups of tuffs are correlated in the South Munster Basin. Individual horizons that cannot be correlated locally may prove valuable as reference horizons for future work on the volcanic history of the south-west of Ireland.
ijes.2017.35.45|The discovery of a sapphire (blue corundum) bearing erratic on the granite island of Lettermore, south Connemara, has led to further discoveries of generally non-gem-grade sapphire in hornfelsed desilicated pelitic xenoliths within the 470Ma metagabbros of Connemara's Grampian Metagabbro-Gneiss Suite. The petrology and mineralogy of the erratic and the desilicated pelitic xenoliths are described. Well-established constraints on the timing of magmatism and on metamorphic conditions show that colourless corundum and a hercynite-magnetite spinel formed 470Ma ago at >900C and the spinel later (~468Ma) unmixed to corundum, which was sometimes sapphire, and magnetite at temperatures of ~750C and 3.56kb. Consideration of global sapphire occurrences indicates that sapphire can form over a wide range of P and T, i.e. greenschist to granulite facies. The Connemara sapphire formed during contact granulite facies metamorphism.
ijes.2016.34.45|Cotterite is a varietal name for an extremely rare form of quartz that displays a distinctive pearly metallic, but not vitreous, lustre. Originally discovered in a horizontal vein of calcite, quartz and ferruginous mud that crosscut Carboniferous limestone in a quarry at Rockforest (near Mallow, County Cork, Ireland) by Miss Cotter in 1875/76, this quartz variety has been the subject of only two scientific papers, the second of which was by Professor Robert Harkness (then of Queen's College Cork) who named the variety in 1878. Genealogical research reveals that the mineral's dedicatee was Grace Elizabeth Cotter (183079), first-born daughter of Reverend George Edward Cotter (third son of the second Baronet Cotter of Rockforest) and Grace La Touche. Both father and daughter were involved in distributing specimens to Irish and British institutions. Currently, some 34 cotterites from Rockforest are extant. There are also two quartz's labelled as cotterite from Nova Scotia (Canada) and two from Devon (England). New observations reveal that cotterite's lustre results from light reflections off partial delamination structures and microfracture crazing patterns within the many late-stage lamellar-style quartz growth layers that comprise cotterite quartz's pyramidal faces.
30002393|Late Devensian sedimentation along the coastal margins of the Irish Sea Basin occurred mainly in shallow-water, glaciomarine environments around retreating tidewater ice margins. Coastal exposures in variably stratified glaciomarine sequences at Skerries (County Dublin) and Derryoge (County Down) contain basal units consisting of coarse-grained gravel deposited by traction and high-density suspensions from subglacial jet effluxes. The gravel contains many complete and fragmented mollusc shells which have been transported from pre-existing sea-bed sediments. Radiocarbon dates on these shells provide age estimates older than 40ka B.P. and therefore do not constrain the age of the deposits or the timing of the last deglacial cycle. Amino-acid analyses on large fragments of Arctica islandica show that marine oxygen isotope (OI) Stage 3 elements are present at the base of both sequences and indicate a Late Devensian age for the efflux sequences. At present there is little dating control on the last deglacial cycle in the Irish Sea Basin and a future research priority could involve AMS dating of Arctic microfaunas present in fine-grained glaciomarine sediments.
25469714|The Galway Batholith (410-380Ma) in western Ireland hosts several dike sets in its western and eastern sectors. The more pervasive of these sets trend N-NNE, perpendicular to the long axis of the batholith, expressing stress relaxation during the cooling and consolidation of the batholith. The dikes of the Ard Mhir-Gabhla-An Gharmain set of the western block are synto post-plutonic intrusions composed predominantly of quartz-plagioclase microphyric dacite. One of these dikes is singular in exhibiting three breccia units-coarse, fine and incipient tuffisite breccias-that are intermittently developed adjacent to, or outside and parallel to, the dike margins. The breccias were emplaced immediately before entry of magma into the fissure. The thickest unit is a coarse breccia composed mainly of cobbles of a pre-existing breccia. The cobbles are cemented with dacite that preceded the main dacite intrusion. This coarse breccia was emplaced in association with splitting of the walls of the fissure and also with south-directed offshoots from the magmatic dike. A paroxysmal emplacement of the dike is inferred.
30002354|Biostratigraphical studies of the Reenydonagan Formation in Bantry and Dunmanus Bays, based on conodonts, have revealed that Member 1 is of medial Tournaisian age. Part of Member 3, and probably Member 2, equates with the late Tournaisian. The upper part of Member 3 is of Arundian age. Member 4 has not been dated. In comparison with the shelf succession at Kenmare, Member 1 is much thicker than its equivalents to the north, whereas Members 2 and 3 are condensed. There is some evidence to suggest that the turbidite carbonate beds of Member 3, together with the varied erratic limestone boulders now found within the Quaternary deposits on the south coast of Bantry Bay, were derived from a limestone shelf area to the south-west or west.
30002490|On the east coast of Beginish Island, Quaternary deposits abutting against a rock ridge to the north are partially exposed in a wave-cut cliff. Rock and a lower diamict are covered by a fossil beach of sand and gravel, which rises to about 3.5 m over modern high water mark. The beach is buried by an upper diamict, about 7 m thick. The beach is disturbed by shearing, injections of silt, and diapiric movements. Loading of the beach by older diamict moved downslope by solifluction is unlikely to have produced sufficient energy to create the tectonic features; pressure from an over-riding younger ice-sheet is more probable.
30002306|Alluvial fan polymict conglomerates and sandstones are well exposed between Cushendall and Waterfoot in County Antrim. These unfossiliferous sediments, which unconformably overlie Lower Old Red Sandstone, were derived consistently from the northwest and deposited in a major fining upwards sequence, c. 0.4 km thick. This debris reflects the denudation of an unusually complex source that included schist, grit, granodiorite, and conglomerates which contributed quartzite, welded tuff, and sandstone clasts. Two minor unconformities occur in the sequence and though these periods of tectonism resulted in the localised reworking of the fan surface, they had little effect on the provenance and dispersal of sediment. Although previously attributed to the Triassic by most authors, these fan deposits share a close similarity with the Upper Old Red Sandstone of the west of Scotland, and may be of similar age.
30002494|Tetragraptus serra (Brongniart) and Sigmagraptus s.l. have been recovered from Hartley's black shale locality on Slieve Gallion. This indicates that the volcanic sequence of the Tyrone inlier is of Arenig-Llanvirn age and not Llandeilo-Cardoc as previously determined by Hartley (1936) on fragmentary evidence.
irisjeartscie.32.29|New geological mapping, along with sedimentological and microfaunal analysis, has enabled correlation among three disparate outcrops of early Carboniferous rocks on the north side of Donegal Bay. This area represents the northernmost exposures of the Carboniferous in north-west Ireland and is inferred to have lain close to the Visan shoreline. A regionally traceable marine flooding event at the base of the Bundoran Shale approximately coincides with the base of the Arundian Stage. Below this, marginal-marine successions can all be assigned to the Lower Visan based on microfaunas. These successions display a lower, non-marine clastic sequence that passes gradationally upward into a shallow-marine carbonate-dominant sequence. This sequence is succeeded by a regressive event that is regionally correlateable despite lateral variation in facies.
30002351|The capacity of fractal statistics to describe the geometry of mineralised vein systems has been tested for a series of molybdenite- and chalcopyrite-bearing quartz veins at Mace Head, County Galway. This exceptionally exposed north-west-trending quartz vein system is hosted by the Carna dome, a part of the c. 400 m.y. Galway granite. Vein thicknesses are described best by a power-law distribution (power-law exponent -1.21) and vein spacings by a log-normal distribution (mean = 467mm, standard deviation = 0.61). Vein lengths and thicknesses are also related to each other by a power-law distribution: L = kt
30002313|We identify a major top down to the south-east (in north-west and central Donegal) and top down to the south (in the Slieve League Peninsula) extensional ductile slide/shear zone which is located along the top of the Slieve Tooey (Islay) Quartzite between the north-east coast of the Inishowen Peninsula and the central Slieve League Peninsula (c. 140km long). A shallow-water carbonate horizon, the Cranford Limestone, is intermittently present at the top of the Slieve Tooey Quartzite in northwest and central Donegal. When this is thin or absent, platy, synmetamorphic mylonites are present in the quartzite and in the hangingwall rocks. Whenever the Cranford Limestone is thickly developed, ductile deformation fabrics are very weak but syntectonic breccias, which we identify as cargneules (i.e. originally evaporites) occur in the basal dolomitic units of this formation. We deduce that the syntectonic brecciation was apparently produced by high fluid pressures at this basal horizon, and thus the shear stress was significantly reduced along these sections of the slide. The ductile mylonites associated with the Swilly slide are correlated with the ubiquitous second cleavage (S) of the Inishowen-Derry area. This fabric, on which bedding faces down to the south-east on the north-west limb of the major, upright, upwardfacing, F Loch Awe/Inishowen syncline, is contractional with respect to bedding and S, but extensional with respect to the subhorizontal datum. Thus the Swilly slide is a zone of intensified strain related to a regional extensional event which closely followed the crustal thickening associated with D, and it may therefore be related to orogenic wedge dynamics and possible collapse.
30002176|Fifteen species of nautiloid cephalopods from ten genera are described from the Carboniferous of Ireland, with localities ranging in age from the Courceyan to the Namurian. Five species and two genera are newly described (Michelinoceras nuddsii sp. nov., Mooreoceras teniuseptatum sp. nov., Mooreoceras howthense sp. nov., Strialoceras feltrimense sp. nov., Loboceras costatus sp. nov., Strialoceras gen. nov. and Loboceras gen. nov.), while other species described from the last century have been taxonomically revised.
30002324|The barium zeolite harmotome is documented for the first time from Northern Ireland. It occurs in spoil from former lead mines between Newtownards and Conlig in County Down. Lode mineralisation of probable Carboniferous age comprises baryte, galena and chalcopyrite within silica- and dolomite-matrix breccias, hosted by Silurian greywacke and shale. A dolerite dyke, most probably of Tertiary age, intrudes the mineralised breccia. Clusters of transparent, prismatic, cruciform-twinned harmotome crystals, up to 5mm by 2mm, occur rarely within cavities. Harmotome is also found as equant, 100-200 twinned crystals dusting surfaces of vugs. Calcite veins in the dolerite also contain harmotomes of both morphologies. The harmotome is postulated to have formed during a phase of hydrothermal activity associated with the dyke intrusion. Harmotome is fairly common as a late-stage phase in lead vein deposits hosted by igneous rocks or feldspathic sedimentary rocks elsewhere in Great Britain and Ireland. Electron microprobe analyses indicate that lode-hosted harmotome at Newtownards is similar in composition to harmotome from other localities, but dolerite-hosted harmotome at Newtownards has comparatively lower Si/A1 ratios and higher KO contents.
30002323|Magnetic data acquired over a range of lithologies show the following: the Deer Park Complex of Clew Bay exhibits different magnetic characteristics east and west of Croagh Patrick. Very large magnetic signatures (4000-8000nT) occur in the west but the anomalies are significantly lower in the east. In addition, the peak anomaly bounds the northern edge of the Deer Park Complex in the west but the southern edge to the east Lower Palaeozoic volcanics flanking the Leinster Granite yield anomalies of 300nT with a variance of 5-30nT, whereas those in the Kildare Inlier have a variance of 20-100nT and anomalies of 700nT. The background variation in magnetism for the Northern, Upper Liffey Valley and Lugnaquillia Units of the Leinster Granite is 2-5nT (similar to the Lower Palaeozoic sediments into which the granite is intruded) and structures are associated with anomalies of 30nT. The magnetic variance within the Dalradian in County Tyrone is about 5nT and peak anomalies of around 30nT have been obtained. Structures within Tertiary basalts and gabbros produce anomalies of a similar magnitude (1000-2000nT), but the variance for the basalts (300nT) is an order of magnitude greater than the variance of the gabbros. Structures in a range of lithologies (including Carboniferous limestone) exhibit similar magnetic patterns, though the amplitude of the peak anomaly can vary.
25469705|Despite a corpus of qualitative relative sea-level (RSL) data from Ireland, there exists a comparative paucity of precise and reliable information concerning changes since the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). Much of the existing data are disparate in nature, having been produced by a range of studies employing different methodologies and often not specifically concerned with sea-level reconstruction. Consequently, there are large spatial and temporal gaps in our understanding of RSL changes, whilst other data are ambiguous and prone to misinterpretation. This paper presents a new database of sea-level information extracted from existing publications. Data are screened and classified into one of four groups according to their utility as indicators of RSL change. This objective classification, based upon well-established sea-level methodology, permits researchers to readily identify the most reliable trends in the available information, and helps to discriminate potentially erroneous data. The database is freely available on-line and should prove a valuable resource to researchers working in coastal environments around Ireland. It will be updated as new information becomes available, ensuring maximum value is extracted from the collection of new sea-level data and highlighting areas where more work is urgently needed.
30002280|Copper, iron, lead, zinc, cobalt, silver and arsenic mineralisation occurs in Carboniferous limestone at the disused Muckross mine, Co. Kerry. The primary ores include sulphides (chalcopyrite, galena, pyrite and sphalerite), sulpharsenides (alloclasite, arsenopyrite and tennantite), native silver and skutterudite in calcite gangue. Post-mining oxidation in the mine waste has given rise to secondary carbonates (aragonite, hydrozincite and monohydrocalcite), sulphates (brochantite, devilline, gypsum, hydronium jarosite, linarite and posnjackite) and arsenates (erythrite, lavendulan, olivenite, mimetite, parasymplesite, phaunouxite, rauenthalite and smolyaninovite). Alloclasite, monohydrocalcite and the last four arsenates are new to Ireland.
30002390|Oxidation of sulphides and leaching of the Carboniferous shales on the coast to the north of Ballybunnion, Co. Kerry, have produced the sulphate minerals brochantite, gypsum, basaluminite, hydronium jarosite, metasideronatrite and sideronatrite. The last four of these are new to Ireland. Other minerals observed were malachite, pyrite and the phosphates crandallite, turquoise and wavellite.
30002529|The pattern of conodont Colour Alteration Indices (CAI's) for the Carboniferous in northern England, as defined by samples from the Three-Yard Limestone, is a product of heat-flow, burial depth, and igneous intrusion. CAI-defined palaeothermal 'highs' overlie the Askrigg and Alston Pennne 'Blocks', with lower values recorded from the surrounding trough sediments. Locally enhanced values are reported in the Northumberland Trough, proximal to Whin intrusions. Comparison of CAI with other pre-anchimetamorphic indices, notably clay mineralogy and vitrinite reflectance, has been possible over much of the area. The viability of using clay residues from conodont processing for maturity studies has been tested, with positive results.
20788279|A portrait of Sir Richard John Griffith (17841878) painted by the accomplished portrait painter Stephen Catterson Smith (180672) was acquired in 2003 by the National Gallery of Ireland. It shows Griffith seated, holding a copy of a geological map of Ireland, surrounded by other geological materials including a copy of Frederick M'Coy's monograph of Carboniferous fossils of Ireland and the Wollaston Medal awarded to Griffith by the Geological Society of London.
30002537|Morphological and sedimentological investigations of the Rooskagh Esker, Co. Roscommon, indicate that there is a link between esker morphology and depositional environment. Sharp-crested ridges are underlain by glaciofluvial sediments laid down in subglacial tunnels and unroofed channels. Flat-topped segments are deltas, while fan-shaped areas are underlain by subaqueous outwash fans. Variation in morphology indicates that the esker is formed from repeated tunnel-to-ice-margin sections and is time-transgressive, indicating that the ice-marginal zone was characterised by stagnation zone retreat northward. The ice margin terminated in a proglacial lake.
30002377|Excavations in a roadstone quarry at Greenagho (H 113393), County Fermanagh revealed a laminated series of sands, silts and clays, of possible lacustrine origin, interbedded with solifluction deposits and overlain by allochthonous micrite boulders and glacial till. Radiocarbon dating of organic detritus contained within the laminated series yielded a
30002285|Abstract Detailed mapping in the Slishwood Division of the North-eastern Ox Mountains Inlier, north-western Ireland, has revealed two previously undescribed tonalite intrusions and an interleaved slice of Dalradian rocks. One tonalite, named the Kilroosk Tonalite, is poorly exposed at a single locality in the north-eastern part of inlier. The other tonalite, named the Giant's Rock Tonalite, is a 10km-long, c. 50mthick sheet-like intrusion, exposed in the south-western part of the inlier. It cuts granulite-facies fabrics within the Slishwood Division. Both the Giant's Rock and Kilroosk intrusions were deformed during the Grampian Orogeny. The deformation affecting the Giant's Rock Tonalite intensifies westwards, where the tonalite outcrop runs parallel to a 7km-long, c. 50m-thick slice of Dalradian cover that has been interleaved within the Slishwood Division basement. Interleaving of the cover and basement was apparently caused by east-south-easterly verging, shearing and folding. Later extensional deformation, allowing exhumation, has transposed earlier compressional fabrics in many areas.
30002205|Previously recorded cephalopods from the Bardahessaigh Formation are revised, and recently collected material from the Bardahessaigh Formation and the Junction Beds is described. The fauna consists of a variety of endocerids, orthocerids, oncocerids, and tarphycerids. While poorly preserved, the composition of the fauna is consistent with a Mohawkian date and probably with the Rocklandian and Kirkfieldian stages. The palaeogeographical affinities of the fauna are clearly North American and show some similarities with those of New York State; differences suggest that they may represent a more external facies.
30002207|Tabular-form Waulsortian banks are now known to be much more important in the Waulsortian Complex of Ireland than previously envisaged, but well-documented examples are still known from only a few areas. A recent publication reporting major development of 'tabular banks' in the Dublin Basin, an area well known for its 'knoll-reefs', thus merits close analysis, particularly since considerable reliance is placed on evidence from drillcores where bank growth-forms are commonly difficult or impossible to identify. After review of the methods used by the authors of this recent study to identify and delimit banks, and to determine their morphology, depositional slopes, and seafloor relief, it is concluded that although low-profile banks may well be present in the Dublin Basin, the existence of major developments of tabular-form banks is not proven. There are other possible interpretations of the data presented.
30002257|A 2 m sediment core from the central depression of a pingo remnant near Millstreet, County Cork, has yielded radiocarbon dates of 9740, 9420 and 8290 years B.P. from near the base, middle and top respectively. Owing to relatively rapid sediment accumulation rates (between c. 0.05-0.2 cm
23489013|Code that runs in the GRASS geographic information system (GIS) environment (available at www.grass.fbk.eu) has been developed to extract bedform morphometric parameters automatically from bathymetric digital elevation models. The code, r.dunes, uses a raster scanning approach, analogous to taking a series of closely spaced cross-sections. The processing pipeline may be summarised as follows: (1) rotation of bathymetric grid; (2) extraction of summit points; (3) extraction of a pair of trough points for each summit point; (4) calculation of dune parameters. The method of steepest descent is central to the extraction of the locations of the trough points where the latter are located with sub-pixel resolution. The code was applied to a digital terrain model of a large bedform field in the upper Bay of Fundy with distinctive two-dimensional bedforms and subject to maximum depth-averaged tidal currents of 2ms -1 . Inspection of a length/height plot revealed three distinct clusters of continuous bedforms with measurements that corroborate a hierarchical dune growth model involving coalescence of two smaller dunes to form a single large dune. Inspection of the spatial distribution of observed bedform height relative to predicted height according to a globally observed height/length relationship indicates that peripherally located bedforms tend to be sediment starved while longer, or more centrally located, bedforms reach or exceed their predicted dimension, possibly because of the limited width of sediment pathways. The code is available for download at www.ria.ie/publications/journals/irish-journal-of-earth-sciences.aspx.
30002211|The Dunquin Group is part of a Siluro-Devonian succession of sedimentary and volcaniclastic rocks that document the final stages of the closure of the lapetus Ocean. Lower parts of the Dunquin Group have been dated as late Wenlock (Homerian) by their included brachiopod and coral faunas. A first graptolite find, Monograptus flemingii warreni, low in the Dunquin Group suggests a Homerian (lundgreni Biozone) age for this part of the succession.
25780707|Enigmatic Bar-like phosphatic microfossils have been isolated from early Mississippian acid insoluble residues of fully marine facies in Ireland where they are usually associated with other phosphatic elements such as conodonts and fish microfossils. Seven Bar-like element morphotypes are described together with a discussion on the possible affinities of these elements. Where coexisting in one sample, a number of the morphotypes resemble the morphology of disarticulated laminae of conulariid exoskeleton. Others differ and appear as discrete elements; it is possible that they represent different morphological parts of a single organism. Comparison of these elements is also made to morphologically similar elements occurring back as far as the Ordovician. However, without articulated material their identification remains in open nomenclature.
25780703|The emplacement of very large clasts (megaclasts) onto cliff-tops many metres above sea-level has often been ascribed to the action of tsunami. In western Ireland, megaclasts are found on cliff-top platforms at up to 50 metres above sea-level having been emplaced by extreme storm-waves without any tsunami action, making these some of the highest such modern deposits in the world. To test the role of storm-waves in this environment, an analysis of wave impact on vertical obstacles is presented partly based on previous work on artificial sea-walls and partly on examples from the cliffs of the Aran Islands. The impact of large waves onto cliffs can lead to overtopping of either green or white water. It is suggested that such overtopping results in the downward collapse of the overtopping water mass. This may result in the formation of a landward moving high-velocity bore. It is this bore which transports megaclasts, sometimes weighing tens of tonnes, across the cliff-top platforms. The impacting orbital wave is thus converted into a unidirectional bore and analysis is presented to ascertain the properties of such bores necessary to move megaclasts in the context of the Aran Islands.
ijes.2016.34.79|This paper assesses how geoconservation efforts in Ireland have proceeded since 2001 when a road map of intended actions was laid out. The plan to roll out a national network of geological Natural Heritage Areas (NHAs) has been augmented by a further initiative, largely driven by availability of financial resources and a demand for geological heritage data during booming economic times. Rather than focusing on NHAs, the primary effort of the Irish Geological Heritage Programme of Geological Survey Ireland is now aimed at achieving full national coverage of audited County Geological Sites (CGSs) in Ireland by 2022. CGSs can have much more local or national importance and still be geological NHAs in future. CGSs have no statutory protection, but receive effective protection through inclusion in the statutory County Development Plan of each local authority. The focus on CGSs also allows an expanded vision of what may be encompassed, such as mining heritage, urban sites and new road cuttings, as well as public amenity sites incorporating geology and educational sites. The important role of Geoparks in raising awareness of geoconservation is also reviewed.
30002426|Granulite-facies metamorphism affecting the Slishwood Division was extreme. Three samples yielded P-T conditions of 15.8, 14, 14.9kbar at 810, 750 and 880C, respectively. Four Sm-Nd mineral isochrons, defined by granulite-facies basic and pelitic metamorphic assemblages, yield ages of 544  52 Ma, 539  11 Ma, 596  68 Ma and 540  50 Ma. These ages confirm that granulite- and earlier eclogitefacies metamorphism took place before the c. 470Ma Grampian Orogeny. Detailed chronological interpretation is inhibited by microscopic inclusions within, and isotope disequillbnum between, the dated minerals It is possible that the ages record crystallisation of either the granulite or eclogite-facies assemblages. However, it is more likely that they record post-metamorphic cooling. Relict pre-granulite-facies igneous minerals from a metagabbro body possibly date its intrusion at 580  36 Ma. Extreme metamorphism in the late Neoproterozoic to Early Cambrian suggests that the Slishwood Division is exotic to Laurentia.
30002531|Quarry blasts have been used as sources for this seismic study of the upper crust in eastern Ireland. Detailed structure has been established to a depth of over 3 km on a line between Dublin and Duleek by analysis of both body and surface waves. Three distinct S wave velocities have been observed (2.65, 3.06, 3.45 km/s) and these are associated with the Carboniferous Limestone, Lower Palaeozoic and Precambrian(?) crystalline basement respectively. The basement shallows towards the south, coincident with a positive gradient in the gravity field. A locahsed decrease in depth to basement at the southern end of the Balbriggan inlier may be associated with a proposed deep fault. Detailed features in the Carboniferous/Lower Palaeozoic boundary show the depth of Carboniferous to be controlled by existing Lower Palaeozoic structures. Results to the west of the Dublin-Duleek line are less detailed and are derived chiefly from inversion of short period surface wave data constrained by the refraction data. The results here include seismic evidence of the buried granite at Kentstown, the extension of this to the east, and some estimates of thickness of Namurian strata north of Dunshaughlin.
30002445|The paper presents a structural interpretation of Landsat thematic-mapper imagery covering the South Munster Basin, carried out at 1:50,000 scale. The basin can be subdivided into four broadly N-S zones on the basis of the dominant lineation trends shown by rose diagrams of the fracture linears for each 10km x 10km square on the map. Comparison with field-derived fracture data reveals that, although the same fracture orientations are present in the data sets, there are marked differences in emphasis between them. These differences are thought to reflect a difference in scale of structures recorded by the two processes, together with a lack of joint-orientation measurements in the field-based data set. A number of major strike-oriented zones with closely spaced fractures are recognised, notably the ENE- or NE-oriented zones extending eastward from Bantry and Dunmanus bays and on the west side of Cork Harbour. The Glandore High, an area of reduced Dinantian stratigraphic thickness and regional structural culmination, is coincident with one of the N-S zones defined on the rose diagram map and may extend farther north than previously proposed. However, there is no clear expression of the important Cork-Kenmare facies line on the imagery.
30002449|The ambitopic brachiopod Eoplectodonta is common in many upper Llandovery assemblages from deep-water settings, but this small plectambonitoid is not a noted opportunist. At least one level within the Telychian Kilbride Formation of north Connemara, western Ireland, contains unusual shelly associations overwhelmingly dominated by Eoplectodonta penkillensis (Reed). An opportunist model is developed for this assemblage based on the availability of vacant soft substrates periodically created after intermittent storm activity on the deep shelf. In addition, rapid sediment accumulation during transgression may have been an important contributing factor in this high-stress environment.
30002439|Details of Dalradian stratigraphy and sedimentology from central and southern Donegal are described. A structural outline shows that the Dalradian succession in this region represents a tectonic stratigraphy with juxtaposed sequences occurring along, and ubiquitously younging away from a major tectonic slide, the Central Donegal Slide Within one of the tectono-stratigraphical packages, Dalradian rocks formerly assigned to the Lower (Appin Group) Dalradian are now regarded as representing part of the Middle (Argyll Group) Dalradian. Volcanogenic clasts and greenbeds are identified from the lower portion of the Middle Dalradian Succession. This is the lowest stratigraphical position in the Dalradian of northwest Ireland from which such rocks have been identified, and may represent an early stage of volcanism and crustal stretching related to the formation of a Middle Dalradian sub-basin in southern Donegal. Further evidence from development of such a sub-basin is gained from regional stratigraphical correlations, together with observations on lateral sedimentary facies variations which are demonstrated to occur through several orders of magnitude.
30002446|Wind-abraded ventifacts are developed on basalt boulders of a jetty of the River Bann near Castlerock, Northern Ireland coast. Ventifact styles include grooves, pits and unusual, elongate, teardrop-shaped features. The ventifacted boulder faces are preferentially aligned facing into the prevailing north-westerly wind, which blows sand from the adjacent beach onto the exposed boulders. That ventifacts are developed on a modem jetty (constructed from 1879 to 1888) demonstrates the effectiveness of wind abrasion on the micromorphology of present-day coasts.
20788277|Alfred Nicholson Leeds (18471917) is famous among vertebrate palaeontologists for amassing an invaluable collection of fossil vertebrates from the Middle Jurassic aged 'Oxford Clay' deposits of the Peterborough district in the UK, throughout the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Part of his collection was acquired by the National Museum of IrelandNatural History in November 1893 but has not previously been described. This fossil material includes a suite of Jurassic marine reptiles: crocodiles, plesiosaurs and ichthyosaurs. There are no examples, however, of the giant fish Leedsichthys; the remains of which are commonly found among the fauna of the Oxford Clay Formation. Despite representing only a very small fraction of the total Leeds Collection, the specimens in Ireland are significant historically, and have scientific value in their own right. For the first time, in this paper, a historical review of the Dublin Leeds Collection is presented, the fossil specimens described and a long-lost piece of important documentation is presented.
30002213|New graptolite data from the Lough Nafooey Group, south Mayo, firmly establish a correlation of at least part of this volcanogenic arc sequence with the upper Tremadoc. The arc was initiated prior to ophiolite obduction onto the Girvan-Tyrone subterrane and occupied a position marginal to Laurentia.
30002214|Altogether 25 taxa of nautiloids are recognised from the Silurian of Ireland. Of these, less than half can be assigned to genera with any certainty. The remainder are either recognisable as previously described species or are indeterminate at some taxonomic level. The fauna contains representatives of the Actinocerida, Orthocerida, and Oncocerida. These are distributed from the Llandovery to the Ludlow Series. Comparison between faunas on either side of the Iapetus suture is not possible as age-comparable faunas are not present. The faunal affinities of the Llandovery Series cephalopods from north of the suture are unclear. Wenlock and Ludlow Series faunas from south of the suture suggest connections with Scandinavia and the northern Urals, and with central Europe. A number of Ludlow Series species are identical with previously described forms from Wales and the Welsh Borderlands.
30002187|This paper discusses the nature of two suites of glacigenic sediments exposed at Bridges of Ross, southern County Clare. A lower diamicton suite is thought to have been derived from an ice sheet moving from the north-east and contains a previously unrecorded, organic, stadial deposit. The overlying limestone-rich glacigenic sediments appear to be derived from a later stage of glaciation, emanating from the east. A formal lithostratigraphic scheme is presented that includes two new formations, the Loop Head and Lehinch formations, both of which are likely to be of Midlandian age.
30002479|Ten quartz rich fault breccias have been located within the Blackstairs Unit of the Leinster Granite. Petrographic studies of the best developed of these indicate at least three separate phases of brecciation. During the brecciation process large quantities of silica bearing hydrothermal fluids passed through the fracture. Crystallisation of silica from this fluid produced a microcrystalline quartz matrix between the clasts of greisened granite. The clasts acted as nucleation centers for the recrystallisation of this matrix, with the consequent development of quartz crystals around each of the clasts. Fragments of the first-phase matrix and clasts are included in the second and thirdphase breccias. Three of the breccia bodies form dykes which are parallel to major fractures which have been postulated to cross the Leinster Granite. It is probable that the brecciation occurred soon after the emplacement of the granite and that the water was of meteoric or connate origin which was introduced into the granite through a large scale convection system.
30002212|Localised outcrops of a 400m-thick conglomeratic formation (Edergole Formation) within the Carboniferous North-west Basin of Ireland are described and interpreted. Field relationships of the Edergole Formation indicate structural discordance with basal clastic deposits that pass conformably upwards into Chadian (early Vis6an) marine sediments. Conglomerates and sandstones in the Edergole Formation represent proximal first-cycle detritus and contrast petrographically with the conglomerates of the main Carboniferous sequence, which are richer in vein quartz. Miospores recovered from a thin silty horizon indicate a late Tournaisian (CM Biozone) age. Three new miospore taxa, Dictyotriletes papiliatus, Geminospora lenta and Spelaeotriletes tuberculatus, are described. The Edergole Formation is interpreted as representing fault-controlled sedimentation during the early phases of basin extension in the Dinantian. Local open folding was produced by reactivation of Caledonian faults and the formation was then overstepped by the main Dinantian marine succession.
30002370|A simple criterion for distinguishing between possible origins of large negative gravity anomalies was applied to the anomaly over the Leinster granite and an anomaly of unknown origin located south of Killarney in the Republic of Ireland. The validity of the criterion was confirmed in the former case and suggests that the latter anomaly is caused by a sedimentary basin. A two-dimensional interpretation of the gravity profile across the flanks of the Killarney anomaly suggests that the anomaly is produced by a high density sedimentary basin reaching a maximum thickness of about 11.5 km at its deepest point. The surrounding geology suggests that the Old Red Sandstone provides the main basin fill. The gravity profile across the flanks of the Leinster anomaly indicates a hidden extension of the Leinster granite to the northwest beneath Carboniferous and Lower Palaeozoic rocks. The southeastern margin of the granite is interpreted as having a near-vertical contact with Lower Palaeozoic rocks, while its contact with the Carboniferous and Lower Palaeozoic rocks to the northwest is relatively gentle. The maximum depth to the granite floor lies between 7 and 11 km. The computed gravity profiles are in good agreement with the observed ones and with surface geology where exposed. However, the lack of independent control on subsurface geology in the form of seismic and borehole information means that these results be considered provisional.
30002178|Large high-level mafic intrusions are regarded as being typical of all mafic intrusions within the continental crust. One or more pulses of mafic magma form a single horizontal intrusion with a sheet-like geometry. Sub-horizontal layering, both modal and cryptic, forms within the intrusion in response to magmatic processes during cooling. Studies of mafic rocks emplaced at mid-crustal depths during regional deformation indicate that strikingly different intrusion geometries may be formed within smaller bodies. The Dawros-Currywongaun-Doughruagh Complex (DCDC) was emplaced into mid-crustal Dalradian metasediments during orogenesis. Compositional variation partly due to fractionation is seen not in a single body, but across the complex as a whole. Emplacement proceeded by the coalescence of sheets emplaced along the regional foliation. Complex internal geometries in some bodies suggest a switch to sheeting of a different geometry. Contamination from the surrounding country rocks is common. This reflects the smaller size of the intrusions, the entrainment of xenoliths and the extensive anatexis of country rock material. It is suggested that the DCDC is typical of intrusions emplaced into tectonically-active crust and that crustal contamination is common in these bodies.
30002251|The geochemistry of three pegmatites and their host granites from geographically separate localities in the Galway granite batholith is investigated. Major and trace element geochemistry reflects the well defined evolutionary trends within the batholith. The REE geochemistry shows that each pegmatite has a unique REE pattern which is similar to the REE pattern of its granite host. This suggests that the pegmatites represent residual melts locally derived from the surrounding granite.
30002332|The relationship between massive sulphide mineralization and the geochemistry and mineralogy of the volcanic host rocks is considered for the Avoca deposit in the light of current models for the genesis of Kuroko-type ore deposits. The formation of a quartz - sericite - chlorite alteration assemblage has been accompanied by element mobility. In the pre-ore rocks this has included Rare Earth element mobility. Post-ore lavas have been strongly enriched in Mg by growth of sheridanite, while the REE have remained immobile. Previous studies have indicated that the Avoca deposit is syngenetic, and that the volcanic host rocks formed in a subduction-related extensional setting. A model is proposed here in which the Avoca deposit formed during an abortive attempt to rift the southeast Ireland continental crust. The rifted volcanic arc setting is increasingly being recognised as favourable for massive sulphide mineralization. Magma composition can be an indication of this setting but it is not itself a determining factor in sulphide genesis.
30002260|Ostracoda from the Suborder Podocopina, superfamily Cytheracea, families Progonocytheridae, Protocytheridae and Trachyleberididae are described from the Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous of the Fastnet Basin, offshore southwest Ireland. Altogether nineteen species of ten genera were recorded, three of which are new: Neocythere (Neocythere) elegantia, Neocythere (Centrocythere) centroreticulata and Veenia biocostata.
ijes.2016.34.27|The petrochemistry of the major elements (33 new rock analyses) of the Dalradian Glencolumbkille metadolerite sills, now amphibolite, shows them to have been quartz tholeiites like those of most of Donegal. Their compositions overlap with those of Connemara (Co. Galway) and Knapdale (Scotland), except the latter two also extend into the olivine tholeiite field. The syn-D2 (~470Ma) sheared schistose margins of the Glencolumbkille bodies are garnet amphibolites, unlike the generally garnet-free centres, and have suffered fluid-derived metasomatism and garnet growth. Garnets are postulated to have been nucleated by the activation energy from the shearing, but the main garnet growth and metamorphism was under static post-D2 pre-D3 conditions in certain favourable rock compositions. Garnet growth in the Glencolumbkille and Connemara amphibolites was generally restricted to rocks with low Mg/Fe, low Fe
25780702|Four non-mineralised fossils from the Ordovician Bardahessiagh Formation, near Pomeroy, Co. Tyrone, have been examined for the first time following their recovery from a temporary trench dug in 1992, and are here described as Seputus pomeroii gen. et sp. nov. These are discoidal impressions with up to 120 radial ridges extending from a central ring to a sharply defined margin, and they are tentatively interpreted as rotadiscid eldonids. The fossils are preserved as moulds and casts in a medium-grained quartzose sandstone bed, which is densely packed with corals, trilobites, brachiopods and delicately preserved echinoderms, probably representing an event bed on an outer shelf or upper slope setting. The non-mineralised fossils are likely to represent a para-autochthonous assemblage of benthic organisms, preserved by early diagenic mineralisation in anaerobic conditions produced by the decay of organic matter entrained within the bed, a mode of preservation broadly similar to that of non-mineralised fossils from the Ediacaran System. The preserved discs are believed to represent a tough exterior more resistant to decay than the (unknown) remainder of the organism.
20788278|The Thorr pluton has until now been regarded as the oldest pluton of the (c. 400Ma) Donegal batholith, and the Ardara pluton the next oldest. However, cross-cutting relationships are not observed. The region around Lettermacaward, NW Donegal, lies within the structural aureole of the Ardara pluton and within the thermal aureole of the Thorr pluton. This study provides new petrological and microstructural evidence to support a revision of this emplacement sequence, showing that in Lettermacaward, Thorr-related fibrolite is superposed on regional Ardara-related D crenulations. The Ardara pluton therefore precedes the Thorr pluton. This revision has significant implications for models of the Donegal batholith that rely on the order of emplacement of these two early plutons.
30002346|New potassium-argon ages for dolerite intrusions in County Fermanagh are presented. These intrusions form part of the north-west to south-east-trending Donegal-Kingscourt dyke swarm which has hitherto been given a Palaeocene (Tertiary) age. The new data suggest that elements of the dyke swarm were emplaced c. 69 m.y. during the Late Cretaceous and are therefore significantly older than previously believed.
30002319|A large number of boreholes have been drilled through Namurian and Westphalian strata in the Leinster Coalfield of south-eastern Ireland. Core from the Ardra and Hollypark boreholes has yielded an exceptionally preserved fauna, dominated by arthropods. Elements of this fauna have only previously been recorded from the Ardra borehole. The occurrence of the fauna in the Hollypark borehole extends the geographical area over which it is known to occur. The fauna occurs in the Moyadd Coal Formation at or near the level of the Gastrioceras subcrenatum marine band, the lowest unit of the Westphalian Series. The most common elements of the fauna are conchostracan branchiopods, many specimens of which display features such as the antennae, mandibles, claspers, trunk appendages, telson, and caudal furca. The anatomical detail preserved in these specimens exceeds that in other conchostracan branchiopods in the fossil record. The 'Castlecomer fauna' clearly merits the term Konservat-Lagerstatte.
25469717|This paper documents the first record of carbonate-filled neptunean dykes within the Ox Mountains Granodiorite. A post-Carboniferous age for the formation of the dykes is rejected and a Visan age favoured. Differential uplift and tilting of segments of the Ox Mountains inlier could have contributed to a complex sub-Visan unconformity and Visan deposition.
30002287|Abstract The Middle Caradoc Well Field Mudstone Member of Pomeroy has yielded a deepwater, low-diversity brachiopod fauna dominated by Sericoidea but associated with a new genus of xenambonitid brachiopod. The new genus is monospecific and has some features in common with Sericoidea, although the interiors of both appear to be quite distinct.
30002544|The Environment and Heritage Service has a statutory obligation, within Northern Ireland, to select and protect Areas of Special Scientific Interest notable for their geology or geomorphology The Earth Science Conservation Review is the process by which sites are selected and documented The paper outlines the importance of earth science in the Northern Ireland government's conservation programme. It presents details on the site selection and designation processes and outhnes the progress achieved to date The critical issue of site management and momnitoring is discussed, as is the future for the programme as a whole.
30002336|The island of Inishnabro of the Blasket Islands, previously considered to be formed of the Lower Old Red Sandstone Dingle Group, also exposes marine sediments of Silurian age. The shallow marine sandstones and siltstones are included in a new formation, the Inishnabro Formation, which is part of the Wenlock-Ludlow Dunquin Group of the western Dingle Peninsula. A clearly exposed conformable contact between the Inishnabro Formation and the overlying thin-bedded sandstones of the Bull's Head Formation (Dingle Group) is gradational. This supports the interpretation of a less well-exposed Dunquin-Dingle Group contact along strike on the mainland to be also conformable. These conformable transitions in the main depocentre of the Dingle Basin are the approximate equivalent of unconformities, some of which are now modified by faults, on the basin margins and on intrabasinal highs. Thus the base of the Dingle Group is latest Ludlow in age, although the Dingle Group is considered to be mostly Early Devonian in age.
30002482|The Upper Palaeozoic succession in the Porcupine and Erris-Donegal Basins, offshore west and northwest Ireland, consists of a thick ?Tournaisian to Autunian succession, capped by thin Upper Permian and Permo-Triassic strata. Where seen, the basement comprises metasediments and granodiorites, of probable Precambrian and Caledonoid age respectively, and ?Palaeozoic low grade metamorphic rocks. The Dinantian to Westphalian succession is comparable to that known from onshore Ireland, and with the Carboniferous of the East Canadian Atlantic Shelf. Upper Permian marine-influenced evaporites rest unconformably on Westphalian, suggesting an Upper Permian marine transgression from the northeast. Vitrinite reflectance data reveal minor lateral changes in pre-Mesozoic thermal gradients over the area, with maximum burial attained at latest by the Lower-Middle Jurassic. Maturity levels, although locally modified by later igneous intrusions, contrast strongly with generally higher levels from onshore Ireland. Extensive reworking of Carboniferous material into Mesozoic rift sequences in the Porcupine Basin is a consequence of variable but extensive uplift of the Carboniferous section.
30002189|Small collections of supposed scaphopods from the Irish Lower Carboniferous are examined. It is concluded that, if identifiable at all, the specimens are probably cephalopods or, rarely, worm tubes. The view that some Palaeozoic specimens have been attributed incorrectly to the class Scaphopoda is further reinforced.
