3705229|The nominate subgenus of the North American genus Paruroctonus Werner, 1934, comprises three infragroups, differentiated primarily by cheliceral and pectinal characters, and named after P. gracilior (Hoffmann, 1931), P. boreus (Girard, 1854), and P. stahnkei (Gertsch and Soleglad, 1966). The gracilior infragroup is monotypic. The boreus infragroup comprises four microgroups (10 species), named after P. boreus, P. becki (Gertsch and Allred, 1965), P. xanthus (Gertsch and Soleglad, 1966), and P. baergi (Williams and Hadley, 1967). The stahnkei infragroup comprises four microgroups (15 species), named after P. stahnkei, P. shulovi (Williams, 1970), P. borregoensis Williams, 1972, and P. williamsi Sissom and Francke, 1981. New synonyms include: P. boreus (= Vejovis auratus Gertsch and Soleglad, 1966); P. gracilior (= Vejovis pallidus Williams, 1968). New species and subspecies include: P. bantai saratoga, n. ssp. (southern Death Valley); P. shulovi nevadae, n. ssp. (southern Nevada); P. simulatus, n. sp. (western Great Basin); P. coahuilanus, n. sp. (Cuatro Cienegas basin, Coahuila). The gracilior and boreus infragroups are primarily allopatric, but both are sympatric with the stahnkei infragroup. Species within an infragroup are primarily allopatric, exceptions involving essentially allotopic species.
3704931|The generic name Ozyptila Simon, 1864 is stabilized by the identification of the type-species O. claveata (Walckenaer) 1837 as conspecific with O. nigrita (Thorell) 1875, the latter becoming a junior synonym of claveata. The 22 species and two subspecies comprising the genus Ozyptila in North America are described or redescribed, keyed, and illustrated. The floridana group contains five species from eastern or southeastern United States and Mexico. O. peon Gertsch, 1953 and O. imitata Gertsch, 1953, known hitherto from female and male, respectively, are newly recognized as conspecific under the name imitata. The brevipes group contains 15 species and two subspecies from various regions of North America, of which O. distans and O. curvata are described as new species and O. sincera canadensis and O. sincera oraria are described as new subspecies. O. bryantae Gertsch, 1939 is synonymized under O. conspurcata Thorell, 1877, O. bison Gertsch, 1953 under O. beaufortensis Strand, 1916, O. barrowsi Gertsch, 1939 under O. americana Banks, 1895, and O. belma Gertsch, 1953 under O. trux (Black-wall) 1846. The rauda group contains two species of the north or west. O. schusteri Schick, 1965 is synonymized under O. yosemitica Schick, 1965. O. sincera Kulczynski, 1926 and O. septentrionalium L. Koch, 1879, are recognized as Holarctic for the first time, bringing the number known to be Holarctic to five. O. nevadensis Keyserling, 1880 is shown to belong in the genus Xysticus, where it becomes a senior synonym of X. knowltoni Gertsch, 1939. O. infumata (Walckenaer) 1837 is designated a nomen dubium.
25067853|Newly emerged crab spiderlings Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757) that recruit to goldenrod Solidago spp. inflorescences are subject to predation by small jumping spiders (Salticidae), principal among them being middle-instar Pelegrina insignis (Banks 1892). I censused goldenrod inflorescences to determine whether the distribution and abundance of crab spiderlings and small jumping spiders were related to one other. The censuses demonstrated a modest negative relationship in the presence of the two species to each other on the inflorescences of goldenrod clones. On inflorescences cleared of spiders and stocked with 20 dyed crab spiderlings, a strongly negative relationship occurred between numbers of recruiting jumping spiders and crab spiderlings on the first two days, but on the third and fourth days a significant positive relationship occurred. A similar pattern occurred on clones cleared of spiders and stocked with 20 spiderlings and three jumping spiders, but the shift to a positive relationship took place after a single day. This shift in behavior apparently occurred after the spiderlings found satisfactory hiding and hunting sites. Seventeen of the 39 jumping spiders captured at these sites during the two experiments had dye on their mouthparts, indicating that they had captured crab spiderlings during this time.
3705029|The nitidulus group of Vaejovis is defined on the basis of pedipalp chela morphology and dentition, trichobothrial patterns, and carinal structure of the pedipalp chela and the metasoma. Five species are treated herein: V. mexicanus decipiens Hoffmann is elevated to specific status and transferred to the nitidulus group; V. intermedius Borelli, V. nigrescens Pocock, and V. nitidulus C. L. Koch are all considered valid species and redescribed; and V. minckleyi Williams is transferred to the group and a revised diagnosis given.
4129809|A population of Myrmarachne formicaria has been discovered in northeastern Ohio. There is reason to believe that this species, which is widespread in Europe, is a recent accidental introduction to this area. This species seems to be well established, having been found with increasing frequency over the past three years. The species appears to be common in a variety of situations, including occasionally inside buildings.
3704946|Behavioral responses of the spider Araneus diadematus to chemically-treated prey support the hypothesis that hairs on the legs of spiders receive chemical stimuli. Analysis of movie films showed a definite withdrawal reaction of spiders to quinine-coated flies and repeated trials with quinine-treated flies led to significantly (P <0.01) longer periods of time for the spiders to respond to prey.
3706320|Afrarchaea grimaldii new species (Archaeidae, Archaeinae) from 88-95 Ma (Cenomanian-Turonian) Upper Cretaceous amber (Burmite) from Myanmar (Burma) is described. This is the first spider to be described from this deposit and is the oldest known Archaeidae sensu stricto extending the known range of the family by approximately 50 Ma from the previously oldest recorded specimens in Baltic and Bitterfeld ambers, and provides further evidence that spiders were not severely affected by the end-Cretaceous mass extinction event. It represents the oldest fossil record of an araneophagic spider. This species could be used to argue for both the theory of mobilistic biogeography and ousted relicts to explain the zoogeography of the genus, but until new data become available, supports neither reliably.
23048803|The primary impediment of long term, high-resolution, ecological studies of scorpions is the difficulty of marking individuals for monitoring and recapture. I tested the use of Visible Implant Elastomer (VIE) as a permanent subcuticular tagging technique in the striped bark scorpion Centruroides vittatus (Say 1821). Mortality and prey capture rates of tagged scorpions did not significantly differ from untagged controls. Tag readability was high and comparable to published studies on other arthropod groups. Animals molted (3 treated, 7 control) and gave birth (1 treated, 2 control) successfully. I recommend VIE tagging as a viable solution to what was a major impediment to the proliferation of fine-scale ecological and population-level field research in C. vittatus and similar arthropods.
23048800|Juvenile solifuges have rarely been observed hunting in natural conditions. We recorded the hunting behavior of juvenile third or fourth instar solifuges of the genus Chanbria (Eremobatidae) near lanterns set up in the Imperial Sand Dunes, Imperial County, California. At least 10 juveniles were observed between 22:50 and 01:40 h on 1819 June 2010. The behavior consisted of nearly constant movement, abrupt stops or retreats, and quick excavation of the sand. The juveniles probed the sand using their pedipalps. One juvenile was observed to dig up an immature Hemiptera from just beneath the surface amidst the sand grains. Direct contact with other solifuges or arthropods occasionally triggered an immediate flight response.
3705147|The tracheal apparatus of the Leptonetidae is examined; there are considerable differences between some genera. The taxonomic position of the family is discussed; they can not be related to any family of the "Haplogynae" by known shared derived characters.
3706074|The present paper describes Deinopis liukuensis new species, from the Gaoligong Mountains, Yunnan Province, China. This is the first mature deinopid described from China.
3705625|The Hawaiian happy-face spider Theridion grallator Simon is a small spider, endemic to Hawaii, where it is found under leaves in the wet and mesic forests. The abdomen is pale, translucent yellow, but variable amounts of red, black or white pigment may be superimposed on this to generate a host of patterned morphs. The translucence of the abdomen may enhance crypsis against predators searching the underside of leaves; the variability in the superimposed pattern may serve to counteract the development of a search image by the predator. The present study documents plasticity in base coloration, which can change rapidly and markedly following ingestion of certain types of prey. This may be merely a consequence of abdominal translucence. But it is interesting to note that it adds a whole new dimension to the color polymorphism of the species.
3705836| Spiders of 10 families, 17 genera, and at least 22 species were collected from crown foliage samples of Abies balsamea (L.) Mill. and Picea rubens Sarg. in east-central Maine. Species of web spinners were more prevalent (68.2% of total species) among branch samples (N = 613 branches) than species of hunters (31.8%). Mean species per site (N = 8 sites) was 7.6  1.2. Numbers, life stages, and sex ratios of spiders differed between tree species; sex ratios were biased (G-test, P  0.001) in favor of females. Spider densities per m
3705374|Endogenous biological rhythms are apparently found in all eukaryotic organisms. The most ubiquitous of these, the circadian rhythm, functions to synchronize physiology and behavior with diel changes in the environment. Data presented here demonstrate that, in the linyphiid spider Frontinella pyramitela (Walckenaer) and in the theridiid spider Argyrodes trigonum (Hentz), a circadian rhythm modulates locomotor activity in some individuals but not in others. The data also show (a) that higher-frequency endogenous rhythms play a part in determining the patterns of motor activity, and (b) that intervals between bouts of activity are influenced by aperiodic processes that appear to be stochastic.
3705879|Aphonopelma paloma new species, is distinguished from all other North American tarantulas by its unusually small size and presence of setae partially or completely dividing the scopula of tarsus IV in both sexes. Both sexes also are characterized by a general reduction of the scopula on metatarsus IV. Males are characterized by a swollen third femur.
3705433| The ovariuterus of Urodacus armatus had three types of diverticula, Rudimentary (RD), Embryonic (ED) and Post Partum (PPD). The data suggested that all the ova were developed and enclosed in RDs by the time a female reached maturity and that the sum of the diverticula gave a measure of the potential lifetime fecundity. Samples from two populations in two consecutive years were not significantly different and the combined mean for all diverticula was 56.7  8.22. Annual fecundity (number of EDs) did not differ between populations or years and the combined mean was 8.3 (range 4-12). Fecundity was not significantly influenced by female condition
3706359|The effect of dietary pigments on abdominal color of juvenile spiders was examined in the laboratory using the flower-dwelling crab spiders Misumenops asperatus (Hentz 1847), Misumenoides formosipes (Walckenaer 1837), and Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757) (Thomisidae). Because these species lack hypodermal chromes, ingested prey pigments may show through the epidermis and affect opisthosomal coloration. Diet-induced color changes were restricted to the opisthosoma, and all three spider species responded similarly to dietary pigments. Opisthosomas of instars 2-4 fed red-eyed fruit flies turned pink, and the pink color faded back to the normal white over a period of 4-6 days. Opisthosomas of instars 5-7 fed red-eyed fruit flies remained white, as did opisthosomas of all instars fed white-eyed fruit flies (controls). In a field population of M. asperatus, 82% of spiders in July (instar 2), 93% of spiders in August (instars 3-4), and 8% of spiders in September (instar 5) had pink, orange, or brown opisthosomas. Yellow juveniles were also seen: 5% and 57% of M. asperatus observed in August and September, respectively, were yellow. Yellow juvenile M. formosipes were observed in the field as well. The yellow color did not result from dietary pigments, but was, rather, a morphological color change and included the prosoma and limbs, as well as the opisthosoma.
25434284|This study deals with the comparison of spider diversity and composition in a complex landscape of the Terai Conservation Area (TCA) characterized by alluvial floodplains of tall grassland interspersed with woodland, swamps, and riparian patches. High water table, annual flooding, and annual grassland fire maintain its dynamic complexity. A mosaic of five vegetation types was sampled for spiders from March 2005 to August 2006 by using pitfall traps and other semi-quantitative collection methods along transects. A total of 3666 adult spiders representing 22 families, 60 genera, and 160 species were found. Using the abundance-based estimator, Chao1, the predicted richness for the total area sampled is 173  8.32 (SD) species. This indicates that the inventory was almost complete at the regional scale (92%). With similar proportions of captured species, rarefied richness value showed that species richness was highest in riparian swamp forest. Comparison of different sites revealed that species composition was much more similar within the same vegetation type than among different vegetation type. Assemblage composition differed the most between riparian swamp forest and plantation. Guild structure varied considerably in relation to the structural quality of vegetation.
3706379|The genus Apostenus is newly recorded from the Nearctic region and a new species, Apostenus californicus, is described from California. Notes are presented on several morphological features of phylogenetic interest.
4129796|Spiders have long been noted as classic examples of extreme sexual dimorphism and adaptations to the lifestyle of a sit-and-wait predator. We examined sex-based differences in the metabolic rate of two species of wolf spider that differ in their degree of sexual dimorphism and predatory strategy. Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1877) is a small active wolf spider that does not exhibit a large degree of sexual dimorphism in body size. Hogna helluo (Walckenaer 1837) is a large, strongly sexually dimorphic wolf spider with large, sedentary females and smaller, active males. We found that P. milvina had a higher mass-specific metabolic rate than H. helluo. Also, P. milvina males had a higher metabolic rate than P. milvina females but there was no difference in mass-specific metabolic rate between H. helluo males and females. Our data demonstrate that an actively foraging species, P. milvina, exhibits a higher metabolic rate than species with a sit-and-wait strategy, H. helluo. This suggests that activity levels may be correlated with metabolic rates. In addition, we hypothesize that sexual selection and selection for specific reproductive roles may have resulted in species differences in sexual dimorphism for metabolic rate.
3705809|Cybaeota Chamberlin and Ivie, 1933 (a genus of small, Nearctic, woodland spiders) is revised to include four species: Cybaeota calcarata, the type species, was described by Emerton in 1911, and C. nana, C. munda, and C. shastae were described by Chamberlin and Ivie in 1937. Cybaeota concolor Chamberlin and Ivie, 1937 is synonymized under C. nana. Cybaeota vancouverana and C. wasatchensis (both of Chamberlin and Ivie, 1937) are synonymized under C. shastae. The relationship of Cybaeota to other Cybaeinae is discussed.
3705986| Spiders living on the forest floor in six old taiga forests were studied using pitfall traps in 1994 (in Suomussalmi) and 1995 (in Puolanka), central-eastern Finland, ca. 65 N. Seventy-seven species belonging to eleven families were caught. Linyphiidae (s. lat.) dominated both in species and individual numbers. The most common species were Lepthyphantes alacris, Agyneta ramosa, Lepthyphantes antroniensis, Centromerus arcanus and Agyneta subtilis. The fauna found is, in general, typical of old Finnish boreal forests. 
3705288|From 23 September 1973 to 22 September 1974 nine specimens (five males, two females, two immatures) and five burrows of Cyclocosmia truncata were examined from the Johnson Crook area of Lookout Mountain, Dade County, Georgia. Adult males wandered from 22 August to 2 October. Male and female specimens maintained burrows with silk-leaf trapdoors but sealed the entrances during molting periods, making field detection difficult.
3704933|Field observations of sympatric Centuroides sculpturatus and Diplocentrus spitzeri scorpions in the Peloncillo Mountains in New Mexico revealed that during the warmer months nocturnal extra-rock surface activity was relatively great in the former species. In contrast, D. spitzeri tended to remain beneath rocks near the openings of its burrows. During the day C. sculpturatus also used the rocks as shelter, clinging to the underside. Actograph studies of both species showed them both to have nocturnal activity when imposed photoperiod was the only variable; however, only C. spitzeri displayed an endogenous circadian rhythm in constant darkness. Rooftop observations of D. spitzeri confined to containers, each with soil and a rock for shelter, indicated that under poor shelter conditions extra-rock nocturnal activity is common for early instars through adults. In another rooftop study D. spitzeri adults exhibited random choice of available rock shelter. It was concluded that different spatial and temporal strategies may make possible avoidance of competition between these two species.
3705421| The effect of micro-habitat change, caused by needle-loss, on spiders living in spruce (Picea abies) was examined in a field experiment. Abundance and size distribution of spiders on spruce branches were recorded at the start and at the end of the experiment. All spiders and approximately 24% of the needles were removed from the experimental branches. In the control branches, the needle density was left unaltered but the spiders were removed. There were no initial differences in the spider community on the selected branches. Spiders were collected after seven weeks of colonization on control and needle-thinned branches, respectively. The mean density of spiders was significantly lower on needle-thinned branches (78%) than on control branches. This was shown to be an effect of reduced density of large (length 2.5 mm) spiders, but not of small (2.5 mm) ones. However, the total size distributions did not differ between the branch categories. The field experimental data confirm earlier results in laboratory studies and natural populations. 
4129880|Argyroneta aquatica is the only spider that spends its entire life under water, and is one of the few spiders in which males are larger than females. In this paper we investigated size dependent mate choice to clarify whether intersexual selection may be partly responsible for the reversed sexual size dimorphism (SSD) in A. aquatica. We found that females that only copulated once could produce up to six viable egg sacs, although the number of offspring decreased with each egg sac produced. Males are the more active sex in mate acquisition and females prefer large males as mating partners. However, females fled more often from males larger than their own size (SSD > 1) than from relatively smaller males (SSD < 1), although small males approached females more often than large males did. We found that males of A. aquatica may cannibalize females, which to our knowledge is the first account of such reversed sexual cannibalism in spiders. The extent of SSD (m > f) determined the likelihood of females being cannibalized. Apparently, avoidance behavior of females towards the preferred, large mating partners is related to the higher risk of being cannibalized. In A. aquatica, intersexual selection may stabilize male size at an optimum instead of directionally selecting for large body size.
3706076|The ant hunting behavior of Zodarion rubidum (Araneae, Zodariidae) is described from specimens collected in Colorado, USA. Like other members of this genus, Z. rubidum constructs igloo-shaped stone retreats under rocks and feeds on ants. Details of the prey capture behavior are provided including initial and subsequent reactions of ants to the bites of Z. rubidum and data on the time it takes for ants to become completely paralyzed as a result of the bites.
3706294|In this study we present a redescription of Scytodes championi, S. romitii and S. guttipes. Seven species are newly described: S. panamensis from Panama; S. vaurieorum and S. chiquimula from Guatemala; S. cogu and S. armata from Costa Rica; S. tegucigalpa and S. zamorano from Honduras. Four of these were described as variations of S. championi in a recent revision of the species of Central America. New records are presented for S. championi, S. romitii, S. guttipes, S. gertschi and S. cubensis.
3706327| A new species of orb-weaving spider, Metazygia levii, is described and illustrated based on specimens from State of Esprito Santo, Brazil. 
3706106|An adult female Pardosa astrigera (Araneae, Lycosidae) died failing to finish an additional molt in the laboratory. Its maturity was morphologically ascertained by SEM examination.
23610254|Wetland complexes in Mediterranean deltas play an important ecological role, as they harbor a diverse flora and fauna with numerous specialized species. Intensification and expansion of agricultural land use, as well as increasing withdrawal of water over the past decades, has led to considerable habitat loss in many places. Although studies from temperate Europe have already demonstrated the conservation needs of wetlands, analogous data for the Mediterranean region are very scarce. The present paper analyzes spider assemblages of the Aladjagiola wetland complex and provides ecological descriptions of diversity patterns and assemblage structures. We aim to provide the first ecological descriptions of several species and effective data sets to characterize the ecological status of the wetland habitats investigated. Spiders were collected by pitfall trapping from April to July 2008 in seven habitat types: pseudo-maquis, dry grassland (short growth), dry grassland (long growth), fringes, reed belts, humid grassland and fallow land. Diversity (alpha and functional) and evenness were both found to be lowest in humid habitat types. Community structure was analyzed by non-metric multidimensional scaling. Humid habitat types harbored a distinct species assemblage comprising many hygrophilic species that could clearly be separated from all other habitat types. By means of generalized linear models, habitat preferences of numerous xerophlic, hygrophilic and photophilic species could be assessed. Our study demonstrated that especially humid habitat types are worth protecting.
3705199|A preliminary checklist (heretofore unpublished) of 25 families, 90 genera, and 147 species of spiders found in Nacogdoches, Texas or in nearby areas is presented. Of these, 66 species were found in mud-dauber nests. Smeringopus elongatus (Vinson) is reported for the first time in the U. S. Fifty-one species are additions to the 577 species having been reported from Texas (Vogel, 1970). Two of the 12 additions to the Texas Salticidae species are reported by Carpenter (1972).
24717326|Many spiders eat mosquitoes, but a spider is not automatically a mosquito specialist if it eats mosquitoes, or even if it primarily eats mosquitoes. Instead, specialization pertains to predators being adaptively fine tuned to specific types of prey. It is important to keep this basic meaning of specialization conceptually distinct from diet breadth (stenophagy versus euryphagy), adaptive trade-offs and other sister topics. Here we review the biology of Evarcha culicivora Wesolowska & Jackson 2003 and Paracyrba wanlessi abka & Kovac 1996 (Salticidae), two spider species that can be characterized, in their own individual ways, as being mosquito specialists. However, simply calling these species mosquito specialists can be misleading. Details matter, with some of the most important of these details pertaining to the different ways E. culicivora and P. wanlessi classify mosquitoes. The way these species classify, and specialize on, mosquitoes includes fine-tuned prey-choice behavior, special feature-detection mechanisms, deployment of selective attention and other behavioral and cognitive capacities that can be understood only on the basis of appropriately designed experiments.
25067811|Hogna coloradensis (Banks 1894) (Araneae, Lycosidae) is redescribed. Banks' original description from 1894 made identification difficult. Internal and external genitalia of both sexes are herein described and illustrated. The spider is found east of the Rocky Mountains from Wyoming south to Mexico. It constructs shallow, straight burrows that it sometimes closes with small rocks and debris. Lycosa evagra Chamberlin 1925 is synonymized with H. coloradensis.
3706277| Adult males of the Dancing White Lady Spider (Leucorchestris arenicola, Araneae, Sparassidae) occurring in the dunes of the Namib Desert, Namibia, frequently wander far out of their 3m radius territories on dark nights. They move across bare dune slopes in search of mating opportunities and subsequently return to their burrows. In the current study, I describe the long-distance movements and navigational ability of males and examine how their wandering behavior relates to mating and interactions with other males. In 16 observed complete excursions, male spiders walked 51 m (median, range 16-91 m) from their burrow along a path of 134 m (42-314 m). The return path was shorter than the outgoing path, had less than 1/8 as many turns, and rarely retraced the outgoing path. Typically, the return path across open terrain had a straight section (median 33 m, range 10-89 m) which was directed towards the home burrow with a maximum angle of deviation of 5. Males crossed 0-5 territories of adult males and as many female territories, mating in about half of the encounters with females. Males avoided each other and signaled with intense sand drumming. Adult males differ in size and there are indications that they compete with each other for mates by long-distance movements, drum-signaling each other, and interfering with mating. During three years of observations of a L. arenicola population, 8% of the largest males did 51% of the mating. Spiders of both sexes were promiscuous, and individuals mated with each other on several occasions. The current study prompts future investigations concerning male orientation and its neurophysiological basis, their ability to locate females, as well as the inter- and intrasexual relationships of L. arenicola. 
25067814|Morphological modifications of the first pair of legs in addition to widespread color variations of these legs among males of closely related species have been reported in a variety of spiders. Here, the evidence for sexual dimorphism in male foreleg morphology within wolf spiders (family Lycosidae) is reviewed and shown to occur in a number of species belonging to at least seven genera in five subfamilies: Alopecosa, Hogna, Schizocosa (all Lycosinae) Pirata (Piratinae), Evippa, (Evippinae), Pardosa (Pardosinae) and Artoria (Artoriinae). These modifications, often in combination with distinct dark pigmentation, can be divided into three major groups: leg elongation, segment swelling and exaggerated setation ("brushes"). The latter two occur mainly on the tibial segment of the first leg. The function of these foreleg modifications has been studied most extensively in the genus Schizocosa. Since the courtship displays of all males Schizocosa incorporate a seismic component, foreleg ornamentation (namely pigmentation and associated "brushes") composes only one part of a multimodal courtship display. The function of this foreleg ornamentation appears to vary across closely related Schizocosa species and in some instances involves an interaction with the seismic signaling component. In most instances it appears to play a role in female mate choice and/or mate choice learning. In addition to reviewing lycosid foreleg modifications, we describe a new species of wolf spider, Artoria schizocoides from southwestern Western Australia that possesses sexually dimorphic modifications of the tibia of the first leg. Unique within the Artoriinae, males of this species carry spatulate setae on the ventral side of the tibia of the first leg that differ morphologically from other leg modifications in wolf spiders.
24717281|Plantation forests are being planted at an increasing rate and account for 7% of the global forested area. The majority of planted forests are composed of exotic tree species, and Eucalyptus trees have become the most widely planted hardwood species in the world. While Eucalyptus plantations have economic importance, their role in native biodiversity conservation, especially in areas without naturally occurring forests, is little explored. In the present study, we assessed the impact on biodiversity of replacing natural semi-deserts with Eucalyptus camaldulensis plantations. The impact was evaluated by comparing epigeal spider communities of seven plantations with previously sampled communities of seven natural habitats in the northwestern Negev, Israel. In contrast to our assumptions, spider species richness was higher in Eucalyptus plantations compared to natural semi-deserts. However, substantial differences in species composition between the two habitat types were observed. Few species found in natural semi-deserts were sampled in the plantations, suggesting that Eucalyptus plantations cannot substitute for natural semi-desert habitats.
3705891|The Hawaiian archipelago is well known for some of the most spectacular species radiations from single ancestors, although the occurrence of this phenomenon in spiders remains largely undocumented. The present study introduces the radiation of the highly diverse spider genus Tetragnatha in Hawaii. Preliminary studies indicate that the Hawaiian Tetragnatha can be divided into distinct clades, and this paper describes representatives of the Spiny Leg clade. These species are characterized by the many, robust spines on their legs, and the abandonment of web-building activity. There are 12 species in this clade, ten of which are new and described in this paper: T. tantalus n. sp., T. polychromata n. sp., T. brevignatha n. sp., T. macracantha n. sp., T. waikamoi n. sp. and T. kauaiensis Simon (in the Green Spiny Legs group), T. kamakou n. sp. and T. perreirai n. sp. (in the Green and Red Spiny Legs group), and T. pilosa n. sp., T. quasimodo n. sp., T. restricta Simon and T. mohihi n. sp. (in no distinct group).
4129893| We studied the natural history and social behavior of Paratemnoides nidificator (Balzan 1888) in a tropical savanna system. Females were responsible for all nymphal care. We observed, for the first time in pseudoscorpions, the occurrence of matriphagy behavior by the offspring. During conditions of food deprivation, the mother went out of the nest and passively awaited the protonymphs' attack, not reacting to the capture nor to the nymphs feeding on her body. We suggest that this extreme form of parental care, matriphagy, can reduce cannibalism among protonymphs and facilitate the evolution of social behavior in pseudoscorpions. /// Ns estudamos a histria natural e o comportamento social de Paratemnoides nidificator (Balzan 1888) na regio dos cerrados. As fmeas foram responsveis por todo o cuidado s ninfas. Ns observamos, pela primeira vez em pseudoescorpies, a ocorrncia de matrifagia pela prole. Em condies de fome, a me deixa o ninho e passivamente espera que as protoninfas a ataquem, no reagindo nem  captura, nem  alimentao das ninfas sobre seu corpo. Ns sugerimos que esta forma extrema de cuidado parental, matrifagia, possa reduzir o canibalismo entre as protoninfas e assim facilitar a evoluo de comportamento social em pseudoescorpies. 
4129887|Members of genus Ammoxenus are known predators of harvester termites (Hodotermes mossambicus). An A. amphalodes female was observed catching and paralyzing a termite in the field. The paralyzed termite was deposited in a silk sac with other paralyzed termites. This confirms that Ammoxenus spp. use different methods of catching and utilizing prey. Termites are either killed and fed upon or paralyzed and stored for feeding at a later time.
3705600|Monthly pitfall trapping in 1990 and 1991 at Horseshoe Bend Experimental Area, Clarke County, Georgia, yielded 112 species of spiders belonging to 25 families. Examination of additional collections brings the site total to 145 species in 26 families, including southern or southeastern range extensions for Agelenopsis kastoni, Sphodros atlanticus, Bathyphantes pallidus, Eridantes erigonoides, Floricomus tallulae, Grammonota inornata, and Walckenaeria carolina, and a northeastern range extension for Paratheridula perniciosa. Ceraticelus emertoni and Neriene redacta are also reported from Georgia for the first time. The proportional distribution of pitfall-trapped species within families does not differ significantly from that reported for Berry's (1966) pitfall trapping in the North Carolina Piedmont (about 450 km away), suggesting regional similarity of the Piedmont ground-layer spider fauna. Data on phenology and relative catch of species among the four habitats sampled (conventional and no-tillage agricultural fields, grassy field borders, and the surrounding deciduous riparian forest) are given for the most abundant species. Habitat selection of 15 abundant species was statistically analyzed; most of the species' populations displayed strong preferences for particular habitats. It is clear that species "spillover" from adjacent habitats contributes to the faunal richness of each habitat, and that maintenance of a mosaic of habitats within an agroecosystem landscape maximizes spider biodiversity.
24717317|Spiders (Araneae) are dominant predators in agro-ecosystems. Terrestrial seminatural habitats, such as hedgerows and grassy field margins, can enhance the abundance and diversity of spiders in adjoining fields, whereas the potential of riparian margins has rarely been studied. We compared the effects of hedgerows and riparian margins on aerial web-building spiders in adjacent cereal fields. While species richness and overall abundance did not significantly respond to distance from or type of field margin, each of the four dominant species responded differently. The abundance of Tetragnatha cf. montana Simon 1874 increased towards both hedgerows and riparian margins. Tetragnatha extensa (Linnaeus 1758) differentiated between field margin types and abundances increased only towards riparian margins. By contrast, Phylloneta impressa (L. Koch 1881) abundances decreased from field centers towards the field margins irrespective of the type. Type of field margin and distance showed an interactive effect on Mangora acalypha (Walckenaer 1802) abundances, which decreased from field centers towards hedgerows but changed only little towards riparian margins. Increasing spider densities towards field margins can be explained by the preference of spiders for adjoining seminatural habitats (overwintering, food availability, microclimate, vegetation structure), whereas increases towards field centers might be caused by interspecific competition and enhanced predation pressure near seminatural habitats and high prey numbers in crop fields. Overall, our study demonstrates that aerial web-building spider species respond differently to hedgerows and riparian margins.
41758979|Relatively little is known about factors that contribute to microhabitat selection among Central American harvestmen. In this study, we compared walking and climbing speeds for five common species from Costa Rica representing the families Cosmetidae (3 species), Gonyleptidae (1 species) and Sclerosomatidae (1 species). Our sample included two arboreal species, two species that infrequently occupy perches in the vegetation, and one species that rarely climbs. Our analyses revealed no significant interspecific differences in climbing speed, although species with relatively long legs walked significantly faster than species with shorter legs. An arboreal habit did not correlate with increased climbing speed, and all species walked significantly faster than they climbed.
3705005|The family Hexathelidae is newly erected. Three subfamilies are recognized: Plesiothelinae, for the monotypic Tasmanian genus Plesiothele; Macrothelinae, confined to Macrothele, Porrhothele and Atrax; and the Hexathelinae include Hexathele, Scotinoecus, Bymainiella, Paraembolides, gen. nov. and Terania, gen. nov. The synapomorphic character required for group membership is numerous labial cuspules. Using the size of the anterior lateral spinnerets, the development of megaspines on the first tibia of males, the paraembolic apophysis, and shape of the labium and other characters, the evolution of subfamilies, genera and some species is discussed using Hennigian principles. A biogeographic hypothesis is proposed using the vicariance events of Plate Tectonic theory. The sister group of the Hexathelidae is the Dipluridae, and the sister group of both is the Mecicobothriidae. The subfamily Ischnothelinae is erected to receive those genera of the traditional Macrothelinae that have no labial cuspules.
3706137| The purpose of this study was to identify spiders associated with foliage of sugar maple, Acer saccharum Marsh. and white ash, Fraxinus americana L., and to investigate their distribution and relative abundance within the crowns of these two northern hardwoods. Spiders were collected during June through August 1995 from the lower and mid-crowns of ten dominant/codominant sugar maples, five white ash and understory sapling and herbaceous foliage 2 m from the ground in a northern hardwood stand in Cortland County New York. These samples were compared for differences in species composition and density (number/25 leaf-clusters; number/100 g dry leaf weight). The spider fauna obtained from this intensive sample was compared to that of an extensive, 20-year survey from the midcrown of sugar maple in 15 northern hardwood stands in northern New York (St. Lawrence and Lewis Counties). The intensive overstory collection (1995) from maple provided 694 specimens (7 families, 11 genera, 13 species). The dominant families were Philodromidae (43%) and Theridiidae (26%). The most abundant species were Philodromus rufus Walckenaer 1826 and Enoplognatha ovata (Clerck 1757). Sugar maple averaged 2.6  0.6 spiders/25 leaf-clusters and 14.2  0.6/100 g of foliage. Density of dominant taxa and total numbers did not differ significantly ( = 0.05) between crown positions. Significantly fewer hunters/100 g leaf weight occurred on the distal half of mid-crown branches compared to the basal half. Hunters were the dominant foraging guild in terms of both numbers (65%) and number/100 g leaf weight (56%). One hundred twenty four specimens were obtained from white ash (7 families, 9 genera, 9 species). Density on ash averaged 2.6  1.3/100 g leaf weight and P. rufus and Araniella displicata (Hentz 1847) were the most abundant species. Significantly fewer spiders occurred on white ash compared to sugar maple (14.2  0.6/100 g of foliage. The extensive sample provided 712 specimens consisting of 12 families, 27 genera and 40 species. The most abundant species recovered was Pelegrina proterva (Walckenaer 1837). The web spinner, E. ovata was the most common species recovered from understory foliage (96% of 763 specimens). 
3705439|The postembryonic development of spinning organs of Nuctenea cornuta (Clerck) and Neoscona theisi (Walckenaer) (Araneae, Araneidae), was studied with SEM, emphasizing first appearance of, and increase in, spigot and fusule complements. Our results suggest that these species may renew their spinning fields by two distinct methods during their ontogeny: spigots may be merely molted in situ like any other cuticular appendage; and/or spigots in one position are lost and "replaced" by an apparently new spigot in a new position. Some or all of each class of fusule (aciniform and pyriform) as well as major and minor ampullate spigots are replaced as well as merely molted. Flagelliform and aggregate spigots seem to be merely molted, never replaced. Evidence for these modes of replacement are the apparently vestigial spinning structures that persist from the previous instar, termed "nubbins" in the case of spigots, and "tartipores" in the case of fusules, as well as patterns in the increase in numbers of fusules and spigots. Spinneret ontogeny confirms Theridiidae and Tetragnathidae as phylogenetically derived taxa relative to Araneidae.
23610255|Jumping spiders (Salticidae) are known for their complex eyes and exceptional spatial vision, but less is known about the role of chemoreception in salticid behavior. Here we investigate whether olfactory pheromones (i.e., airborne chemical signals) from conspecific spiders and their draglines elicit the display behavior typically performed during vision-based courtship from the males of Cyrba algerina (Lucas 1846) and C. ocellata (Kroneberg 1875). We used conspecific and heterospecific spiders and their draglines as potential sources of chemical cues. We show that olfactory cues from conspecific females, but not conspecific males or heterospecific females, effectively elicit vision-based courtship from the males of both Cyrba species. These results demonstrate that C. algerina and C. ocellata males make display decisions on the basis of species- and sex-specific olfactory information. Moreover, even in the absence of a conspecific female spider, female draglines suffice as a source of olfactory pheromones, illustrating the difficulty of ruling out olfaction when testing for chemotactile pheromones.
41758958|Three new species of the family Anapidae are reported from caves and tropical rainforest of southern China: Gaiziapis encunensis, Minanapis menglunensis and Sinanapis longituba. The genus Minanapis is recorded for the first time from China.
3704992| A conspicuous faunal element in hot dry desert regions worldwide, scorpions rely on a combination of behavioral, morphological and physiological adaptations in adjusting to harsh conditions found in these habitats. Foremost among behavioral adaptations are the exploitation of burrowing and nocturnal habits which provide a temporary escape from extreme daytime temperatures and desiccating air at the surface. Associated with these habits may be enlarged pedipalps used in digging and the presence of negative phototactic responses and orthokinetic avoidance of high temperatures. Still, lethal temperatures (45 to 47C) of desert scorpions are higher than most other desert arthropods, and the presence of water-proofing wax layers which are perhaps supplemented by cuticular proteins provide scorpions with an impervious integument. Water loss rates approaching 0.01% of their body weight per hour (25C) are the lowest reported for desert animals and are especially significant in view of their high surface area-volume ratio. Evidence suggests that restrictive mechanisms in the cuticle may supplement the effective physical barrier of the exoskeleton in controlling cuticular transpiration. Their extremely low metabolic rate not only results in a reduced respiratory component of total water loss, but extends the time that scorpions can remain inactive during particularly stressful periods. Water loss is further minimized by the excretion of nitrogenous wastes in the form of guanine and the production of extremely dry fecal pellets. Replenishment of lost body water is provided primarily by body fluids of captured prey, although drinking by some species can serve as a supplementary source when bulk water is available. No scorpion species has demonstrated water uptake from either a near-saturated atmosphere or a moist substrate, regardless of its hydration state. Scorpions are able to withstand considerable dehydration (30% to 40% of their body weight) and apparently tolerate the increased hemolymph osmotic pressures and ionic concentrations until body fluids can be replenished. The importance of water-conserving versus water-regaining mechanisms are discussed in relation to the total adaptations of these animals to hot dry environments. 
3705269|Xysticus emertoni Keyserling (Araneae: thomisidae) hunted regularly for insects on flowers of common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca L.), but only infrequently on goldenrod (Solidago juncea Ait.) and rarely on pasture rose (Rosa carolina L.) Individuals usually remained less than two days on a milkweed stem and fed primarily on honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) and nocturnal noctuid and geometrid moths. The largest common prey, bumble bees (Bombus spp.) were very seldom captured. Misumena vatia (Clerck), a second species of thomisid that hunted on flowers in the study area, by contrast hunted frequently on milkweed, goldenrod, and pasture rose. Individuals remained over twice as long on milkweeds and captured bumble bees regularly, as well as honey bees and nocturnal moths. As a consequence, they captured over twice as much prey biomass per day as Xysticus. I hypothesize that the difference between the two species in time spent per stem and in frequency of using goldenrod and pasture rose is a consequence of the difference in success of prey capture, primarily a failure of Xysticus to include bumble bees regularly in their diet. Xysticus emertoni, a member of a largely litter-inhabiting genus, probably secures the majority of its food there, rather than at flowers.
25434332|A replicated pre- and post-burn study of survival of small and large Geolycosa xera archboldi McCrone 1963 and G. hubbelli Wallace 1942 in Florida scrub was conducted. These two syntopic species were chosen because G. x. archboldi prefers large gaps of barren sand in the scrub matrix, sites with little fuel for fires, whereas G. hubbelli strongly favors small gaps having some leaf litter, sites with modest or high fuel-loads. On the basis of these species-specific differences in microsite characteristics, I hypothesized that G. x. archboldi would be very fire tolerant but that G. hubbelli would be fire intolerant. I established two size classes for the Geolycosa: small spiders had 3-5 mm diameter  5-9 cm deep burrows; large spiders had > 6 mm diameter  10-17 cm deep burrows. Burrows of 25 spiders in each species  size class were marked before a burn in seven burn units (= fire management areas) and survival or mortality of each occupant was ascertained over the course of 5 days post-burn. Thus, the experimental design was 2 species  2 size classes  7 burn units  25 replicates/burn unit (n = 700 spiders total). Survivorship was very high in small and large G. x. archboldi and in large G. hubbelli (93-96%), but it was low in small G. hubbelli (35%). Temperature recordings suggest mortality in small G. hubbelli was caused by high temperatures at depths of 5-10 cm during intense, but brief burns that characterize fires in Florida scrub. In contrast, large G. hubbelli had burrows sufficiently deep so that most of them did not experience lethal temperatures during burns.
20798591|A new species of harvestman from the endemic North American genus Hadrobunus Banks, 1900 is described. The species, H. fusiformis, differs substantially from known USA species in both somatic and genital morphology, but the male resembles that of H. knighti from northern Mexico in having a long, narrow penis and posteriorly tapered opisthosoma.
25067843|Four species from three families of spiders were exposed to sublethal concentrations of the neurotoxic pesticide malathion: Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz 1844), Rabidosa rabida (Walckenaer 1837), Frontinella communis (Hentz 1850), and Salticus scenicus (Clerck 1757). Spider activity was recorded using a proprietary computer vision system equipped with artificial intelligence routines. Exposure to malathion changed the spiders' propensity to move, levels and patterns of activity, and distance moved. Dosed spiders increased their activity between 12 and 40%, depending on the species. Continuous recordings for  24 h revealed the peak activity for dosed R. rabida and S. scenicus was shifted  1 h earlier than controls. Spiders exposed to malathion also significantly increased the distance they moved per locomotory bout. This is consistent with the action of an organophosphate neurotoxin acting as an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Thus, exposure to sublethal doses of malathion appears to affect the neural basis for these spider's normal diel periodicities, time budgets, and patterns of locomotion, probably reducing their efficiency as agents of biological control.
3705881|Observations from previous studies have indicated that lycosid spiders often die before maturing when raised on only one prey type. Two wolf spider species (Lycosa helluo collected from Florida, and Lycosa sp. collected from Kentucky) were used to test the hypothesis that diet affects survivorship. Siblings from one egg sac of each species were divided into two groups of 50 spiderlings each, and reared under identical conditions with different diets. The polytypic diet consisted of crickets (Acheta domesticus), fly grubs (Sarcophaga bullata), cockroaches (Periplaneta americana), mealworms (Tenebrio molitor), beetles (Dermestes sp.), and an occasional supplemental orthopteran collected from the field. The monotypic diet consisted only of crickets (A. domesticus). There was significantly lower survivorship of spiders raised on monotypic prey in both species, although the pattern of mortality over time varied between species. There were also significant differences in certain body size parameters (cephalothorax width, total leg I length, patella-tibia length) measured at maturity between spiders raised on polytypic or monotypic diets in one species (L. helluo). In addition, Lycosa helluo raised on polytypic diets reached sexual maturity earlier than those reared on monotypic prey. These results suggest that there are fitness-related consequences of dietary breadth in spiders, and support the hypothesis of Greenstone (1979) that lycosids require a mixed diet.
40233818|In this paper, we investigate the reproductive behavior of the gonyleptid Chavesincola inexpectabilis Soares & Soares 1946 (Heteropachylinae) and provide basic descriptive information about courtship, copulation, oviposition, and paternal care. Like most gonyleptids, males of C. inexpectabilis have a strong armature on the fourth pair of legs and use their spines and apophyses to fight other males and to repel them from their nesting sites. The mating pair interacts briefly before copulation, but the male touches the female both during and after penetration while she oviposits. The oviposition behavior differs markedly from that of other Laniatores: females hold the eggs on the chelicerae before depositing them on the substrate. After oviposition, the eggs are left under the guard of the male to defend against attack from cannibalistic conspecifics. Mapping the available data on reproductive biology of the Gonyleptidae on the phylogeny of the family, it is possible to infer that paternal care has evolved at least three times independently: once in the clade Progonyleptoidellinae + Caelopyginae, once in the Gonyleptinae, and once in the Heteropachylinae, which occupies a basal position within the group.
23048784|Funnel-web spinning spiders of the genus Hololena are capable of fast movements in a horizontal plane across a variety of challenging surfaces. We used two species, H. curta (McCook 1894) and H. adnexa (Chamberlin & Gertsch 1929), in experiments designed to reveal how they achieve remarkable speeds, occasionally exceeding 70 body lengths (50 cm) per second. In high-speed recordings we found that spiders used their legs in alternating sets of four, distributed in staggered pairs along the body axis, resulting in an alternating-tetrapod gait. Increases in speed showed positive linear relationships with both frequency and stride length. There were also inverse, linear relationships in both species between speed and duty factor, meaning that increases in speed are associated with a decrease in the relative amount of time spent by the legs on the ground during each full leg cycle. By examining their duty factor vs. speed regressions, we found that spiders of both species were capable of aerial phases during high-speed running, with the transitional speed occurring at an average of 54 body lengths per second. We conclude that further experimentation with high-speed spiders and insects will likely show that a variety of species exhibits dynamically stable locomotion, including aerial phases.
24365299|Live whole specimens of two species of the harvestman Superfamily Travunioidea Absolon & Kratchovl 1932 from the eastern United States, eight species from the western United States, six morphospecies of the family Triaenonychidae Srensen 1886 from New Zealand, and specimens of the phylogenetically early-diverging North American triaenonychid Fumontana deprehendor Shear 1977 were extracted in methanol, and the solvent analyzed for components from their defensive secretions. The components were then mapped on a recent phylogeny of the taxa. In both eastern cladonychiid species, Erebomaster flavescens Cope 1872 and Theromaster brunneus (Banks 1902), the major component found was anabaseine, an alkaloid related to nicotine. In the western species, Paranonychus brunneus (Banks 1893), Cryptomaster leviathan Briggs 1969, Speleomaster lexi Briggs 1974, S. pecki Briggs 1974, Speleonychia sengeri Briggs 1974, Metanonychus idahoensis Briggs 1971, Briggsus flavescens (Briggs 1971) and Sclerobunus nondimorphicus Briggs 1971, the major component was N,N-dimethylphenylethylamine, implying that the travunioids from the two regions represent different phyletic lines. The secretions of the triaenonychid species, members of the genera Soerensenella Pocock 1903 and Nuncia Loman 1902, were dominated by 4-methyl-3-hexanone, and that of F. deprehendor by phenol. The completely different chemistry of the two taxa, Travunioidea and Trianonychidae, implies significant phylogenetic differences, and the presence of phenol in F. deprehendor may suggest a long period of separate evolution for this species.
20798578|A first step toward understanding why sociality has evolved in a particular taxonomic group is to establish comparison points by studying the organization of different social systems. We examined the social organization and spatial distribution of individuals in colonies of the undescribed colonial spider Leucauge sp. (Araneae: Tetragnathidae). The social organization of this species was typical of a colonial species, with spiders maintaining individual territories (orb webs) within a scaffolding of shared support lines maintained by the group. Furthermore, we observed a size-dependent vertical stratification of spiders within colonies, with large spiders occupying the highest positions, followed by medium, extra-small and small individuals, a spacing pattern that was consistent across colonies of all sizes. Spiders captured and consumed prey individually and displayed territorial behaviors involving web defense. This study provides a new example of a colonial spider species that shows a distinctive within-group spatial distribution. We discuss possible reasons underlying this species' spatial arrangement in the context of social evolution.
3706264|Three species of Tasmabrochus new genus are described. The new species are T. cranstoni (type species), T. montanus and T. turnerae. They are placed with Tasmarubrius in a new subfamily Tasmarubriinae in the Amphinectidae.
20617598|Temperature can profoundly affect many physiological processes, including muscle performance. Many ectotherms appear sensitive to this relationship, choosing times and locations of activity permitting high body temperatures and, thus, quick escape from predators. High body temperatures, however, can lead to dehydration, which in turn affects muscle performance. Striped bark scorpions Centruroides vittatus Say 1821 provide an ideal model for assessing the effects of temperature and water loss on two potentially important antipredator behaviors, sprinting and stinging. Scorpions had significantly higher sprint speeds at warmer temperatures, with males significantly faster than females. Additionally, sting latency was longer and sting rate lower when scorpions were cooler. Intriguingly, females appear capable of stinging at a higher rate than males. Desiccation allowed the scorpions to sprint significantly faster than control (hydrated) scorpions, probably due to weight loss. The influence of temperature on sprinting and stinging might thus explain bark scorpions' preference for maintaining high body temperatures during periods when they are exposed to predation. When inactive, however, scorpions may benefit from maintaining lower body temperatures to decrease resting metabolic rate and desiccation.
41317229|Records of mites parasitizing pseudoscorpions are summarized and new host-parasite associations are reported. Trombidium brevimanum (Berlese 1910) (Trombidiidae) has been found on Neobisium bernardi bernardi Vachon 1937 in France (new country record for T. brevimanum), and T. mediterraneum on N. carcinoides (Hermann 1804) in Norway (new country record for T. mediterraneum). These are the first cases in which both the mite and the pseudoscorpion have been identified. An additional record of Trombidium sp. (probably T. mediterraneum) on Neobisium fuscimanum (C. L. Koch 1843) is given from Poland. A previously unpublished record of a. Leptus larva on a pseudoscorpion, possibly belonging to the genus Neobisium, is noted from France. Parasitism of Roncus lubricus L. Koch 1873 by an unidentified larva of Parasitengona (probably Trombidiidae) is also noted from Germany. The stylostomes (feeding canals) formed in pseudoscorpions by trombidiid mites are similar to those produced in other hosts. Scars in the pleurum of the pseudoscorpions are interpreted as the result of attempts at fixation by the mite larvae. Pseudoscorpions appear to represent alternative hosts for Trombidium larvae, although the successful completion of development has yet to be demonstrated.
3706017|The morphology of the respiratory system of basal araneomorph spiders, the Haplogynae and of Entelegynae with female haplogyne genitalia, is reviewed. The homology of cuticular respiratory structures is discussed in light of evidence from abdominal muscles and ontogeny. Ten morphological characters (13 transformations) were coded, mainly from the posterior pulmonary (or tracheal) segment, and other 7 non-respiratory characters here added. The new data were combined with those of a previously published analysis, resulting in a data matrix of 82 characters scored for 44 terminals. The evolution of the tracheal system is traced through the phylogeny of basal spiders and the Haplogynae, and new synapomorphies are provided. Elongate 3rd abdominal entapophyses are a synapomorphy of Araneomorphae. True median tracheae are a synapomorphy of Entelegynae (convergently with Austrochilinae), as is the extreme posterior displacement and narrowing of the tracheal spiracle. Tetrablemmidae, Pholcidae, Diguetidae and Plectreuridae are united by the absence of tracheae; and these taxa are united with Scytodidae, Sicariidae and Drymusidae by the fusion of 3rd entapophyses.
4489054|Two new species of the genus Atypus, Atypus sternosulcus new species from Andong and A. suwonensis new species from Suwon, are newly described from Korea.
3705707| We studied the seasonal occurrence of forest-floor spiders by collecting samples with 100 pitfall traps operated throughout the growing season of 1985 in a mature coniferous stand in southern Finland. Samples were collected at five-day intervals in May-August and at longer intervals in September-November. The entire sample from the 26 trapping periods consisted of 6753 adult spiders of 100 species. The overall abundance and species richness was highest in the early season, May and June. Seasonal spider catch was not correlated with fluctuations in temperature, but was negatively correlated with rainfall. Nine of the ten abundant species (2% of the sample each) belonged to the family Linyphiidae (sensu lato) and one to the family Agelenidae. Macrargus rufus (Wider) was the most abundant species comprising approximately 1/3 of the sample followed by Lepthyphantes alacris (Blackwall) (17% of the sample). The activity peaks of the ten abundant species were usually short, only a few weeks, and occurred in the early and mid-season, May-July. Only L. alacris was collected every trapping period. Although numbers of males clearly exceeded that of females in most species, the seasonal occurrence of the sexes coincided. Our results differ somewhat from earlier observations about spider phenology in Finland. It is possible that this discrepancy depends to a great extent on different sampling methods used. 
3706236|Leg autotomy often confers immediate benefits on the animal losing its legs, such as escape from a predator, while costs are usually less obvious and accrue long after the leg is lost. I conducted a survey to determine the prevalence and characteristics of leg autotomy in two species of harvestmen, Leiobunum nigripes Weed 1892 and L. vittatum Say 1821, from May-December 1996 at Chicot State Park, Evangeline Parish, Louisiana. Nearly half of all individuals found were missing at least one leg. There was no significant difference in the median number of legs between months for L. nigripes, but differences were found among several months for L. vittatum. Either of the second legs was most likely to be lost in both species. These results indicate that leg autotomy is common in harvestmen. Furthermore, these results suggest that the second legs are not as crucial to the survival of harvestmen as previously believed. Leg autotomy may result in a reduction of potential fitness for individuals, but harvestmen may choose to incur these costs rather than risk a catastrophic loss of fitness (e.g., death); that is, leg autotomy may be a bet-hedging strategy for harvestmen.
3705391|Anelosimus eximius is a cooperative, group-living neotropical spider. Colonies consist of up to several thousand individuals, and colonies may be aggregated into local colony clusters. The colony clusters are patchily distributed, and are often separated from their neighbors by a km or more. In this study individuals were collected from colonies located in Panama and Suriname. These individuals were subjected to horizontal starch gel electrophoresis and screened for polymorphisms in 46 enzyme systems. A total of 51 scorable loci were found, of which seven were polymorphic. The results were analyzed with Wright's F statistics which were used to investigate the amount of genetic differentiation in the population attributable to subdivision of the population into colonies, colony clusters, local populations and the geographic regions of Panama and Suriname. Most of the genetic differentiation in the A. eximius sampled was due to subdivision of the population into colony clusters and into geographic regions. There was no evidence of differentiation among colonies in a colony cluster, and little differentiation among collection sites within Panama or Suriname. In contrast, within a local population, samples from adjacent colony clusters were sometimes fixed for different alleles at one or more loci, and the Panama and Suriname samples were fixed for different alleles at three loci.
3705583|Based upon an analysis of patterns of variation in morphology, pigmentation, habitat, and Mysmenopsis kleptoparasites, two new species of Ischnothele from Jamaica (I. reggae and I. xera) are described. These allopatric sister species appear to have cospeciated with their respective Mysmenopsis kleptoparasite species, also each other's closest relatives. The rate of divergent evolution of the two kleptoparasite populations appears to be greater than that of the host populations, in part, we suggest, because of the kleptoparasites' shorter generation time.
3705219|The distribution of Paruroctonus gracilior (Hoffmann) and P. utahensis (Williams) in New Mexico and Texas is confirmed and new state records of both are established. P. aquilonalis (Stahnke) is established as a junior synonym of P. boreus (Girard), and state records of both the junior and senior synonyms are considered to be based on misidentifications. Two new species of the genus are described: P. williamsi from the Big Bend region in Texas and P. pecos from sand dunes in southeastern New Mexico.
3706144| The first molecular phylogeny is presented for four species of the scorpion genus Mesobuthus, based on DNA sequences of three gene fragments (two mitochondrial and one nuclear protein coding gene, 1 kb). The inferred phylogeny based on a pooled maximum likelihood analysis revealed a clear deep splitting between the "western clade" consisting of M. gibbosus and M. cyprius (Greece/Anatolia, Cyprus) and the "eastern clade" consisting of M. eupeus and M. caucasicus (Anatolia/Central Asia). The species M. caucasicus (recently placed in the genus Olivierus Farzanpay 1987) groups monophyletically within Mesobuthus; thus, the genus Olivierus is synonymized here with Mesobuthus. Sequences of M. eupeus and M. caucasicus sampled mainly from Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan are highly structured, indicating the possible existence of multiple species. 
41804571|We evaluated spider guild abundance and vegetation complexity in riparian forests in southern Brazil in four distinct river basins over 2 yr. We compared spider guild abundance among rivers, habitats (edges vs. forest interior), and against vegetation complexity. We also compared spider assemblages between juvenile and adults in terms of guilds. Of 42,057 spiders sampled, 79% were juveniles and 21% were adults. Space-web weaving was the most abundant guild whereas cursorial hunters was the least abundant one. Weaving spiders dominated over hunters (59% vs 40.58%, respectively). Thirty-four families were recorded; ambush hunters totaled 11 families; space web sheet builders and hunting runners had eight families each and there were seven families for orbicular web builders. Space web sheet builders dominated on all levels: among rivers and habitats (edges and forest interior). Unexpectedly, spider guilds did not seem to be influenced by environmental complexity, given the variables measured, under a Canonical Correspondence Analysis. There was an interaction between guild relative abundance and ontogeny, since the proportion of the space web sheet builders guild among adult spiders was larger than the proportion among juveniles, with a decrease in proportion of adults especially for hunting runners.
3705207|A new species, Apochthonius knowltoni, is described from southwestern Wyoming. It is apparently unique among pseudoscorpions in having some individuals intermediate in sexual characters between tritonymphs and adults.
23610231|Behavioral isolation may play an important role in speciation. However, the roles of divergence time and ecological specialization on the evolution of intrinsic barriers to gene flow are poorly understood. On the Galpagos, ecotypic differentiation of Hogna Simon 1885 wolf spiders has led to the repeated evolution of morphologically distinct high-elevation and coastal species on Santa Cruz and San Cristbal. This offers a unique opportunity to investigate the importance of ecological factors and evolutionary history on courtship behavior, but also to explore the opportunity for interspecific gene flow. On San Cristbal, both high elevation and coastal Hogna species clearly showed distinct courtship behavior. This pattern corresponded primarily with variation in male genital organs rather than with ecotypic classification or phylogenetic relationship. Despite low acceptance rates, heterospecific mating was observed, suggesting that potential gene flow within as well as among islands should not be neglected when seeking to understand island radiations.
41804576|A new species of trapdoor spider, Idiops rubrolimbatus sp. nov., is described from the northern part of the Western Ghats of Maharashtra. Idiops bombayensis Siliwal et al. 2005 was originally described based on only a female specimen. Here, a description of the male is provided for the first time, along with a female description based on fresh collections from Mumbai and Matheran, Maharashtra state, India. Natural history information is provided for both species.
3705962|The distribution of four species of Carbinea new genus in the Wet Tropics region of northern Queensland documents the species' richness and local endemism. The new species are C. longiscapa, C. breviscapa, C. wunderlichi and C. robertsi. They are placed in the sub-family Kababininae which is removed from the Amphinectidae (Davies 1995) as there is evidence that it does not belong there. The placement of this clade remains problematical.
25067857|Generalist predators hunt a wide range of prey that possess various characteristics affecting the predators' hunting success (e.g., size, ability to detect the threat and defend against it, potential for escape). Therefore, it can be expected that the predator should flexibly react to different prey characteristics, hunting them in prey-specific ways. For a stalking predator a crucial prey feature is its ability to escape. In this study, the alternative prey-catching tactics of a dune-dwelling salticid Yllenus arenarius Menge 1868 were analyzed. Four naturally eaten prey taxa, two with a high ability to escape (Homoptera, Orthoptera) and two with a low ability to escape (Thysanoptera, larvae of Lepidoptera), were used. Numerous differences found between the tactics indicate that Y. arenarius can not only distinguish between different types of prey, but can also employ specific tactics to catch them. The tactics belong to a conditional strategy and are manifested in alternative: a) direction of approach, b) speed of approach, and c) other prey specific behaviors.
3705161|In a 365 day period 3400 ballooning spiders belonging to 14 families were collected in a suction trap. The four most common ballooning families were Erigonidae, Thomisidae, Oxyopidae, and Tetragnathidae. These four families make of 77% of the total. Peak periods of spider aerial dispersal occurred during early spring through early summer and late summer through fall. No information could be found on the ballooning activity of the family Mimetidae before this study. All thirteen other families had been reported previously.
3706261|The hobo spider, Tegenaria agrestis (Walckenaer 1802), was accidentally introduced into the United States probably in Seattle, Washington during the early 1900's and gradually spread through Washington, Oregon, Idaho and into southern British Columbia during the
3705677| Electromorph profiles of seven Phidippus species found in South Carolina were compiled by acrylamide gel electrophoresis. Twelve gene loci from 10 enzymes were analyzed. Mean heterozygosity of the seven species populations was 0.117 with an average proportion of polymorphic loci of 0.416. The mean genetic distance of all spider populations was 0.56  0.04. P. otiosus (Hentz) and P. regius C. L. Koch were more closely related to each other (I = 0.781) than were any other pair of jumping spiders. 
23070802|To help to address the paucity of ecological knowledge available for Brachypelma vagans Ausserer 1875, a CITES protected species, we monitored a population in Western Belize for two years to provide data for distribution and dispersal. Despite previous over-collection for the pet trade, the species is locally highly abundant in some areas of Belize. We recorded the distribution, burrow and spider characteristics of B. vagans in 2007 and 2008 at Las Cuevas Research Station, Belize. Population dynamics were compared between years, as was individual location. Over 100 burrows were located in both years; however, previous assumptions that individuals do not move burrows regularly appear negated, since only 12 burrow locations matched between years, suggesting high intra-habitat dispersal. Despite this apparent high level of movement burrows were significantly clumped, to a similar degree, in both years. This movement could be due to disturbances throughout the year, including flooding during the rainy season. Burrow size correlated with individual body size, except in a few juveniles that appear to have opportunistically claimed an empty burrow, accounting for some small animals found in large burrows.
3705437| Ten electrophoretic loci were scored for five California populations of the pholcid spider, Holocnemus pluchei. Two loci were variable, with two allelles present at each. Genetic differentiation among populations was weak (mean
25067859|Nephila clavipes (Linnaeus 1767) and N. pilipes (Fabricius 1793) juveniles exposed to a novel and potentially dangerous prey item frequently attack using thrown silk. To quantify the frequency with which N. clavipes opt to use thrown silk, nave hand-reared small N. clavipes juvenile females were observed attacking a new prey type, stingless bees. Repeated exposure to the stingless bees suggests that the spiders incorporate prior experience into prey attack strategies, as experienced spiders attacked using the more usual Nephila long-bite.
3705506| The systematics of the genus Centruroides Marx, 1889, in South America is reviewed. Three taxa are retained as valid: C. gracilis (Latreille), C. margaritatus (Gervais), and C. exsul (Meise). Of these, C. margaritatus is redescribed, based on the rediscovery of the holotype female from Isla Pun, Ecuador. Three new synonymies are proposed: Centruroides dasypus Mello-Leito, 1948 = Centruroides vittatus (Say, 1821); Centruroides argentinus Werner, 1939 = Centruroides margaritatus (Gervais, 1841); and Centruroides danieli (Prado and Rios-Patio, 1939) = Centruroides margaritatus (Gervais, 1841). /// La systmatique du genre Centruroides Marx, 1889, est rvise pour l'Amrique du Sud. Trois taxa sont retenus comme valables: C. gracilis, C. margaritatus et C. exsul. Centruroides margaritatus est redcrit en se fondant sur l'holotype femelle de l'le de la Pun, en Equateur. Trois nouvelles synonymies sont proposes: Centruroides dasypus Mello-Leito, 1948 = Centruroides vittatus (Say, 1821); Centruroides argentinus Werner, 1939 = Centruroides margaritatus (Gervais, 1841); et Centruroides danieli (Prado et Rios-Patio, 1939) = Centruroides margaritatus (Gervais, 1841). 
3705923|Typhlochactas mitchelli, new species, is described from Cerro Ocote, near Tenango, Oaxaca, Mexico. This is the second species of Typhlochactas discovered in montane forest litter. Based on its cheliceral dentition, T. mitchelli is most closely related to the other forest litter species, T. sylvestris Mitchell & Peck, also from Oaxaca.
3705377| Of 50 specimens of Linothele megatheloides (Raven) growing under laboratory conditions, only 22 reached a sexually mature state after 10 and 11 ecdyses. The average number of eggs per sac was 161.5; the average egg diameter was 22 mm. The spiders were monitored in the laboratory to determine the inter-instar rate of growth. Eggs held in paraffin and carboxymethyl-cellulose developed only to gastrula. Under laboratory conditions, spiders did not build complete egg sacs, and the eggs were eaten. Several egg sacs were destroyed by fungus and parasitoids. The time of emergence of the spiderlings after oviposition was between 23 and 27 days. The reproduction period occurred between April and October and was apparently related to rain and relative humidity. The spiders have little parental care of the eggs and spiderlings. /// De los 50 ejemplares de Linothele megatheloides (Raven), creciendo bajo condiciones de laboratorio, solamente 22 llegaron a la madurez sexual, luego de entre 10 y 11 mudas. Las araas se monitoriaron en el laboratorio para determinar el incremento entre un instar y el prximo. Los huevos includos en parafina lquida y en carboximetil celulosa, solamente llegaron a gstrula. Bajo condiciones de laboratorio, las araas no construyeron la ooteca completa y sus huevos eran normalmente comidos por ella. Varios sacos de huevos fueron parasitados y destruidos por hongos y parasitoides. El tiempo de emergencia de las araitas luego de ser puesta la ooteca estuvo entre 23 y 27 das. El perodo de reproduccin estuvo entre abril y octubre, situacin aparentemente relacionada con el incremento en humedad relativa. Las araitas no mostraron inversin parental alta con sus huevos y cras. 
3705252|The ischyropsalid genera Sabacon and Tomicomerus in America are reviewed, and three new species of Sabacon are described from the western United States. The family name Sabaconidae Dresco is evaluated and not accepted as distinct from Ischyropsalidae. Sabacon crassipalpe (Koch), described from Siberia, probably does not occur in America. The genus Tomicomerus and its single species T. bryanti are redescribed from the single known specimen.
3704981|Thirty-two species of Pirata, including nine new species, from North and Central America and the West Indies are described and illustrated with photographs on 39 plates. Keys to males and females are included. Data on distribution, life history, and ecology are summarized. Photographs of all available types are included.
3706019|Prey capture by the orb-web spider, Argiope aurantia Lucas 1833, depends on the type of the web-site selected. I analyzed A. aurantia web sites in open field and adjacent forest edge habitats to identify habitat features associated with web characteristics and prey capture. In the open field, the use of herbs or grass for web attachment was associated with smaller web diameters, and lower attachment heights and web heights. In both forest edge and open field, the distance to the nearest flower was less when web attachments were on composites. In the open field, webs attached to grass captured more orthopteran prey, and webs attached to herbs and composites captured more hymenopteran prey. The mean number of prey captured and the proportion of hymenopteran prey increased with higher web attachments in the open field habitat. Close proximity of webs to goldenrod in bloom in the open field habitat increased the mean number of prey captured and the proportion of hymenopteran prey. In the forest edge habitat, the presence of goldenrod was associated with more hymenopteran and orthopteran prey and with a higher mean prey number captured. Generally, webs in the open field habitat had more hymenopteran and orthopteran prey and higher mean prey number captured than the forest edge habitat. The web-site providing the greatest probability for encountering and capturing prey is predicted to be one with a tall composite plant for web attachment near goldenrod in bloom.
3705346|In the laboratory, P. johnsoni oviposit successive batches of eggs with a trend toward a decrease in both number of eggs and proportion of eggs that hatch in later batches. Approximately one month elapses between copulation and the first oviposition, and another month elapses between each successive oviposition. Eggs hatch three weeks after oviposition, and spiderlings disperse from the maternal nest after another three weeks. Males mature earlier, pass through fewer molts, reach smaller adult size and have lesser adult longevity than females. There is considerable intrasexual variability in adult size, maturation time, and number of instars before reaching maturity. Males mature in 5 to 7 molts; females, 6 to 8. Instar duration and variability in instar duration is greater in later than in earlier instars. Morphometric data from the laboratory were employed for estimating the number of molts that spiders undergo in the Coastal Range of California. Spiders in nature matured later in the year and probably passed through more molts before reaching maturity (6 to 8 for males; 7 to 9 for females) than was the case for laboratory-reared spiders. Phenology and density were investigated in six populations: two from the Coastal Range of California, two from Beach habitats (sea level, next to the ocean) in California, and two from Alpine habitats (Sierra Nevada, California; Rocky Mountains, Wyoming). Densities were comparable in all populations except for one Beach population in which spiders tended to occur in patches with density 5 to 10 times greater than in other populations. The mating season in the Coastal Range tends to be two months in duration, and adult females do not survive the summer. In Beach habitats the mating season tends to be eight months in duration, and adult females are present throughout the year. Phenology with more pronounced seasonal trends in the Coastal Range is correlated with greater seasonal fluctuations in climate. Beach habitats have relatively constant, mild climate. In Alpine habitats the mating season is restricted to summer months, when show does not cover the ground. In the Rocky Mountains, summer rain is frequent; and the mating season extends through the entire summer (approximately 3 months). In the Sierra Nevada, summer rain is rare; and the mating season is restricted to early summer (approximately 1 month). Evidence from the field indicates that males do not survive the winter in Alpine habitats; and in laboratory experiments, adult males were inferior to adult females and immatures in their ability to survive simulated winter conditions. Possible causes of interpopulational differences in phenology are discussed; and hypotheses are discussed concerning the adaptive significance of iteroparity, oviposition of infertile eggs, inter- and intrasexual size variation, intersexual variation in longevity, and other life history characteristics.
25434328|Vegetation as a preferred microhabitat for scorpions has rarely been considered despite many Buthidae (the bark scorpions) being non-burrowing errant scorpions that are active on both the ground and vegetation. Microhabitats can serve multiple functions for Centruroides vittatus (Say 1821), but a particular microhabitat can be preferred for a certain function such as a refuge, foraging, or feeding. Observations of microhabitat use by C. vittatus were performed in Laredo, Texas of the Tamaulipan Biotic Province. Comparisons of microhabitat use by C. vittatus at different temperatures or precipitation levels were performed. Foraging and feeding by C. vittatus among microhabitat classes were also compared. The observed use of vegetation by C. vittatus during different seasons was compared to the expected use based on relative abundance of vegetation in the habitat. Air temperature, but not precipitation, had a significant effect on microhabitat use by C. vittatus. Microhabitat had a significant effect on foraging of C. vittatus with caterpillars comprising 34.6% of the prey items and half of the scorpions feeding on caterpillars were in blackbrush (Acacia rigidula). The lowest proportion of scorpions observed feeding was on the ground (3.8%) and the highest in blackbrush (40.4%). The frequency of C. vittatus among vegetation classes was significantly different compared to the relative abundance of plant species in the plot. Scorpions were observed on prickly pear cactus (Opuntia engelmannii) and strawberry cactus (Echinocereus enneacanthus) at a higher frequency than expected, and scorpions were observed on guajillo (Acacia berlandieri) and tasajillo (Opuntia leptocaulis) at a lower frequency than expected. The frequency of scorpions on blackbrush was higher than expected during the spring. Vegetation is an important microhabitat for C. vittatus in south Texas. The results indicate the possibility that C. vittatus in south Texas used various plant species to carry prey captured on the ground into vegetation to feed, used blackbrush to forage for caterpillars, and used strawberry and prickly pear cacti as a possible refuge.
3705280|Orb-weaving spiders of the species Araneus sericatus demonstrate a reflex among the first or second pair of legs in response to vibrational pulses delivered to the substrate. This response served as the dependent variable in determining the absolute threshold sensitivity to vibration. Sensitivity was best (smallest displacement amplitudes) in the region of 125 hertz. The reaction time of the response was inversely related to vibration intensity. The response occurred within 100 milliseconds for suprathreshold stimuli. This study confirms, by a behavioral method, the frequency response range of the orb-weaver as indicated in physiological research. Evidence is given which shows that A. sericatus can respond to acoustical stimuli at frequencies greater than about 300 hertz.
3705090|Male L. rabida were used to bioassay seven experimental substrata. Latency and frequency of five behaviors were recorded: courtship, chemoexploration, sound-production, puppet-walking and jolting. Some experimental substrata were covered with conspecific male or female silk. Other substrata were those from cages of females that had their spinnerets occluded before living on a substratum. Lepidopteran silk and clean substrata were used as controls. Data indicate that males exhibit a change in behavior only in response to experimental substrata covered with female silk. These results agree with findings based on species studied by Kaston (1936) and Dondale and Hegdekar (1973), but are opposite from results obtained on other species of wolf spiders by Bristowe and Locket (1926) and Richter et al. (1971).
4129886| The history of spider ecology is discussed from its early beginnings in 1684 when the natural historian Martin Lister published his observations, to the post-war period up until 1973 when ecological spider research gathered momentum. While there have been many important observations since Lister, spider ecology appeared explicitly in the titles of papers only after the turn of the 20th century. However, much of what was published up until the 1950s is of little scientific value because these works contained natural history notes and conjecture, not manipulative experimentation. The exception was a paper written in 1939 by Pontus Palmgren who was not an ecologist but paradoxically a functional anatomist with a particular interest in ornithology. His paper was in the spirit of Ernst Haeckel's original definition of ecology that was seen as synonymous with physiology, a legacy that was detected in many of the papers decades after Palmgren. However, there was little evidence that ecological theory was being tested. Instead, theoretical inputs were largely ignored with most spider ecologists preferring to pursue the somewhat circular interest of basic observational studies. Eventually after some considerable delay, Charles Elton's theories of the niche and succession fed into spider ecology but the papers were often weak and invariably flawed due to the absence of experimental manipulations. Notably, it was not until the 1950s, when the elegant experiments of Edwin Nrgaard who manipulated the system in order to understand the interactions between spiders and their environment, that scientific spider ecology began. Edwin Nrgaard should be credited as the father of 'spider ecology', although Matthias Schaefer and Sven Almquist also made important contributions to the field and should not be overlooked. These researchers employed manipulative techniques during a period in which this experimental approach was not widely used in spider ecology. I conclude this review with a look to the future and predict that model selection will become much more prevalent, although it will never replace manipulative experimentation. One outstanding issue that has remained since 1684 has been the gift of ecological theory to the wider scientific community. Although spider ecologists have received theoretical frameworks from other disciplines such as botany and entomology, they have never reciprocated although they are now well placed to do so. 
3705591|The male of Diplocentrus lourencoi Stockwell 1988 is described and illustrated from a specimen collected west of San Pedro Sula, Honduras, and compared to the holotype female and the males of other Diplocentrus Peters 1861 in the region. The hemispermatophore is described, illustrated, and compared to other Diplocentrus in the region. Unique new characters on the male, posterolateral recesses on tergite VII, are described and illustrated. New descriptive information is given for the holotype female. Complete measurements and morphometrics are given for the male and female. A comparative diagnosis is offered based on this new information.
41758984|Nephila are known for the greatest degrees of sexual size dimorphism among orb weaving spiders (Araneoidea) and thus among terrestrial animals. However, a meaningful quantification of the dimorphism is lacking and the proximate developmental mechanisms of female gigantism are poorly understood, being attributed solely to female delayed maturation. Here we show that females in the giant wood spider Nephila pilipes (Fabricius 1793) become giants through facultative post-maturity molting, a phenomenon resulting in female carapaces on average 4.27 times longer than males' (ranging from 3 to 6.4 times), and female mass averaging 125 times the male's (ranging from 28 to 502 times). Although the small males follow a typical developmental pathway and reach maturity with their final molt, the females mature at varying sizes and instars and then continue to grow by molting the entire exoskeleton except their genitals. The newly discovered phenomenon of additional, single-sex, adult, non-genital molting may represent a critical developmental adaptation that facilitates female gigantism in Nephila as a response to fecundity selection.
23610232|Trait-mediated effects of predators can impact prey population dynamics by affecting prey behavior. The mirid bug Stenotus rubrovittatus (Matsumura) (Hemiptera: Miridae), a major insect pest in Japanese rice production, usually remains in the upper layer of paddies to feed on rice ears. However, the mirids are frequently trapped by horizontal webs of Tetragnatha spp. spiders, which are highly abundant in organic rice paddies, and fall to the bottom layers of paddies where they are preyed upon by ground-dwelling predators. It is hypothesized that Tetragnatha spp. spiders facilitate bug predation by wolf spiders through trait-mediated effects, in which their horizontal webs force the bugs onto or near the ground and thereby into the hunting zones of wolf spiders. Molecular gut-content analysis of 619 wolf spiders coupled with field measurements revealed that the number of wolf spiders that tested positive for mirid bug predation increased significantly with the density of Tetragnatha spp. spiders in the paddies. We also observed a positive relationship between Tetragnatha spp. abundance and total cover by their webs in paddies. We identified the potential for an unexpected interaction between an herbivorous insect pest and ground-dwelling spiders that usually inhabit different microhabitats in paddy fields by focusing on trait-mediated effects of webs built by Tetragnatha spp. Because spider webs occupy a certain proportion of the available space in terrestrial ecosystems, consideration of trait-mediated effects on interactions between flying insects and other predators may lead to a better understanding of local food webs.
3705468| Types, topotypes, and some other material of the pseudoscorpion Microcreagris imperialis Muchmore have been studied, and the species is transferred to the genus Fissilicreagris uri. Supplemental description and illustrations are presented, including the first information about females. This species is known only from three caves in Cave Gulch, Santa Cruz County, California. The cave habitat for F. imperialis is threatened by vandalism, development, and closure; and the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed this pseudoscorpion as a candidate for listing as an endangered or threatened species. 
3706241| The courtship behavior of male Leucauge mariana (Keyserling 1881) spiders that occurred both prior to and during copulation is described, along with the positions and movements of the male genitalia. The great variation in male behavior suggests that it does not function in species recognition. Several kinds of female response are necessary if a male is to successfully inseminate her. Males made two types of insertion, involving different movements of palpal sclerites, and copulations with virgin females differed quantitatively and qualitatively from those with non-virgins. Males deposited encapsulated sperm and other material in an outer chamber of the female's spermatheca early in copulation. Later stages of copulation involved deposition of material on the surface of the female's epigynum that sometimes resulted, with the apparent addition of material by the female, in the formation of a plug on the epigynum. Sperm were decapsulated in the female soon after insemination, perhaps as a result of the action of a female glandular product, and later were found in two other chambers of her spermathecae. Contrary to previous discussions, male and female cheliceral clasping behavior accompanying copulation does not explain why the palpal morphology of these spiders is relatively simple. Cheliceral clasping was similar, though not identical, to that of several other tetragnathine spiders. Cheliceral clasping and details of how male palps engage the female may provide synapomorphies linking Leucauge to tetragnathines. /// Se describe el comportamiento de cortejo de machos de Leucauge mariana (Keyserling 1881) que ocurri antes y durante la cpula, y las posiciones y los movimientos de la genitalia del macho. La gran variacin en el comportamiento de los machos sugiere que sto no funciona como seal de reconocimiento de la especie del macho. Varias respuestas de las hembras son necesarias par que un macho logre inseminarla exitosamente. Los machos efectuan dos tipos de insercin de los palps en los cuales realizaron diferentes movimientos con los escleritos del palpo. Las cpulas con hembras virgenes diferieron tanto cuntitativamente como culitativamente de las cpulas con hembras no virgenes. Los machos introdujeron espermatozoides encapsulados y otras sustancias en una cmera de la espermateca de la hembra durante una etapa temprana en la cpula. Despus depositaron materiales sobre la superficie del epgeno que a vces formaron, en combinacin con material proveniente de la hembra, un tapn sobre el epgeno. Los espermatozoides salieron de las cpsulas dentro de la hembra, quizs como resultado de la accin de un producto glandular de la hembra, y despus llegaron a dos otras cmeras de la espermateca. Al contrario de algunas discusiones previas, el agarre entre los quelceros del macho y la hembra no explica porqu la morfologa de los pedipalpos del macho de este grupo es relativamente sencilla. El agarre entre quelceros se asemeja al agarre de varias otras especies de Tetragnathinae, y este comportamiento, mas otros detalles de como los palpos del macho se acoplan con la genitalia de la hembra, pueden proveer sinapomorfas que ligan Leucauge a Tetragnathinae. 
25434296|Stereotyped behaviors have been routinely used as characters for phylogeny inference, but the same cannot be said of the plastic aspects of performance, which routinely are taken as a result of ecological processes. In this paper we examine the evolution of one of these plastic behavioral phenotypes, thus fostering a bridge between ecological and evolutionary processes. Foraging behavior in spiders is context dependent in many aspects, since it varies with prey type and size, spider nutritional and developmental state, previous experience and, in webweavers, is dependent on the structure of the web. Reeling is a predatory tactic typical of cobweb weavers (Theridiidae), in which the spider moves the prey toward her by pulling the capture thread (gumfoot) to which it is adhered. Predatory reeling is dependent on the gumfoot for its expression, and has not been previously reported in orbweavers. In order to investigate the evolution of this web dependent behavior, we built artificial, pseudogumfoot lines in orbwebs and registered parameters of the predatory tactics in this modified web. Aspects of the predatory tactics of 240 individuals (12 species in 4 families) were measured, and the resulting data were optimized on the phylogeny of Orbiculariae. All species perform predatory reeling with the pseudogumfoot lines. Thus, predatory reeling is homologous for the whole Orbiculariae group. In nature, holes made by insects in ecribellate orbs produce pseudogumfoot lines (similar to our experimentally modified webs), and thus reeling occurred naturally in ecribellates. Nevertheless, outside lab conditions, predatory reeling does not occur among cribellate orbweavers, so that this behavior could not have been selected for in the cribellate ancester of orbweavers. Cribellate spiders are flexible enough as to present novel and adaptive predatory responses (reeling) even when exposed for the first time to conditions outside their usual environment. Thus, the evolution of reeling suggests an alternative mechanism for the production of evolutionary novelties; that is, the exploration of unusual ecological conditions and of the regular effects these abnormal conditions have on phenotype expression.
4129830|Adaptive radiation involves the diversification of species each adapted to exploit different ecological roles. I have studied a radiation of spiders in the genus Tetragnatha (Tetragnathidae) in the Hawaiian Islands to elucidate processes involved in such diversification. The temporal framework of the Hawaiian Islands allows examination of the changing pattern of adaptive radiation over time, as lineages have generally progressed down the island chain from older to younger islands. Species of Tetragnatha in the spiny-leg clade on any one island are typically most closely related to others on the same island, and the same set of ecological forms (ecomorphs) has evolved repeatedly on different islands. These results indicate that adaptive radiation frequently involves ecological divergence between sister taxa to allow multiple close relatives to co-occur in the same habitat. The current study examines the geographical context within which these species arose. I focus on a clade of 5 species that occur on the volcano of East Maui; at any given site 3 species can co-occur, one of each of 3 different ecomorphs. Mitochondrial DNA sequences from populations of these 5 species from throughout their distribution (Maui, Lanai and Molokai) were used to infer the geographic history of the species on East Maui and to determine whether diversification likely occurred in situ, or alternatively whether diversification occurred in allopatry on different volcanoes. Although ecological differentiation between taxa is evident, allopatry is clearly implicated in the initial divergence of taxa. Further study is required to understand the nature of the interplay between allopatry and ecological divergence in species formation.
20798581|In this paper we present a detailed study of the natural history of Gluvia dorsalis (Latreille 1817), a representative of the family Daesiidae, the only solifuge species known to occur in southwestern Europe. We studied its distribution, habitat preference, circadian activity, seasonal occurrence, burrowing, predatory and post-mating behavior, prey, fecundity, ontogenesis, and sexual dimorphism. Gluvia dorsalis occurs in lowlands across the entire Iberian Peninsula, preferring grassland or similar open-ground habitats with little summer rain. According to pitfall trap data, the species was active on the surface from May until the beginning of November. It is a nocturnal epigean predator, feeding principally on ants and spiders. However, under laboratory conditions, specimens captured and consumed a variety of arthropods. G. dorsalis seems to hide in underground burrows only when molting, overwintering, or laying eggs. Reproduction occurred in early summer, and females usually produced a single egg clutch containing, on average, 84 eggs, and died soon after. Our results indicate that the G. dorsalis is a biennial species. There was sexual dimorphism in several morphological structures that might be used for sex matching in juvenile instars.
3705874|Egg sacs of 25 species of spiders in 14 families were found to contain immatures of Mantispa viridis in northwestern South Carolina, bringing the total spider taxa associated with this species to at least 29 species in 15 families. Thirty-one of the 124 M. viridis infested egg sacs had two or more mantispids in them. However, only three of these sacs produced two or more adult mantispids, with two sacs producing two adults each and the third sac producing four adults.
24365303|Both males and females of the spider Leucauge mariana (Taczanowski 1881) contribute material to the plugs that often occlude the genital openings of females in the field. Males were sometimes unable to remove or penetrate these plugs, but overcame others using three different mechanical mechanisms: snag the plug and pull it off; break and penetrate through it; and break its adhesion to the epigynum by injecting material under it. They used their genitalia to accomplish these tasks, despite the fact that the genital bulb lacks muscles and innervation, thus limiting the male's ability to guide genital movements precisely. The effects of two male genital structures, the conductor tip and the conductor hook on sperm transfer and genital plug removal were tested by direct observations of their morphology and behavior, and by experimental removal of structures from one but not the other palp of the same male. Removal of the conductor tip reduced sperm transfer, while removal of both the hook and the conductor reduced plug removal. A preliminary characterization of palp movements and their sequences did not reveal any behavior that seemed especially designed for removing plugs, as opposed to inseminating the female.
3704973|The species of spiders from a cotton field agroecosystem were identified and their presence, abundance and distribution on the plant was determined. Ninety-seven species were found, with seven species comprising half of the total number collected. Oxyopes salticus Hentz was the most abundant, 23% of all spiders collected. More species of orb weavers than of other spiders were found in the middle of the plant than elsewhere. Spiders that spin irregular webs were also found more often in the mid plant area but also were found all over the plant. Ambushing spiders were found mostly in the top of the plant and hunting spiders were found most often in pitfall traps. Web spinners were apparently more abundant than hunters during a cool, wet year while hunters appeared to be more abundant in a hot and dry year.
3705689| A quantitative analysis of somatic and genital characters on a sample of Grammostola mollicoma (Ausserer, 1875) showed higher intraspecific variation in genitalic than somatic characters, especially in females. Experimental copulation within a subsample confirmed that all were the same species. These results seems to be uncommon in spiders and may result from: i) female moulting after maturity ecdysis; ii) allometric growth of spermathecae; iii) multiple sexual selection by female choice (according to female size) and its effects on male genitalic evolution. /// Un anlisis cuantitativo de caracteres somticos y genitales realizado en una muestra de Grammostola mollicoma (Ausserer, 1875) mostr una variacin intraespecfica mayor en caracteres genitales que en los somticos, especialmente en hembras. Cpulas experimentales realizadas en una submuestra confirmaron la coespecificidad. Estos resultados parecen ser poco comunes en araas y podran deberse a: i) que las hembras continan mudando despues de adultas; ii) crecimiento alomtrico de las espermatecas; iii) seleccin sexual mltiple por eleccin de la hembra (condicionada por el tamao de la hembra) y sus efectos sobre la evolucin de la genitalia de los machos. 
25067844|A junior homonym was detected amongst the Arachnida and the replacement name Sandokan is proposed for Oncopus Thorell 1876 (Opiliones, Laniatores). Accordingly, nine new combinations are herein proposed for all nine valid species currently included in Oncopus (Opiliones). In addition, we propose the replacement name Sandokanidae new name for Oncopodidae.
41804579|Solifuges, or camel spiders (order Solifugae), keep their pedipalps extended when moving through the environment, utilizing them much the way insects use their antennae. The male also uses his pedipalps during copulation, staying in contact with the female throughout the process. The pedipalps are covered with setae that are assumed to function as chemo-, mechano-, thermo-, hygro-, and olfactory receptors. We surveyed setal forms and other possible sensory structures on the pedipalps of solifuges to determine 1) if certain setae and structures are common to all families, 2) if some may be unique to certain families, and 3) the possible function of the various setae and other structures. We found that all families had bifurcated and tapered setae, and that all families had dorsal tarsal pores. Other setal forms were evident only in one or a few families. Three of the setal types had distal pores suggesting that they function as chemoreceptors. These data suggest that the pattern and types of setae on the pedipalps of solifuges may be phylogenetically informative and confirm that the pedipalps do function as sensory appendages.
3706323|We collected 75 immature Pardosa milvina and maintained them in a laboratory until death or maturity to determine whether P. milvina in our population were harboring endoparasites. Nine mermithid nematodes emerged from P. milvina hosts, with each nematode emerging from a separate spider. One dipteran parasite, an acrocerid, emerged from P. milvina. This study provides the first published record of nematodes emerging from P. milvina and documents an additional record of acrocerid parasitism of P. milvina.
4129839|Studies into the systematics of wolf spiders have mainly employed morphological characters of adult spiders, in particular features of the male and female genitalia, and more recently mitochondrial DNA sequence data. However, there is still no established phylogenetic framework for the Lycosidae, even at the subfamily level. This study uses a novel morphological character set, the chaetotaxy of lycosid larvae (presence and arrangement of setae and slit organs), to infer systematic information on seven species of wolf spiders that are currently listed in three subfamilies: Lycosinae [Alopecosa pulverulenta (Clerck 1757), Hogna antelucana (Montgomery 1904), Rabidosa rabida (Walckenaer 1837), Trochosa ruricola (DeGeer 1778)], Piratinae [Hygrolycosa rubrofasciata (Ohlert 1865), Pirata hygrophilus (Clerck 1757)], and Sosippinae (Sosippus californicus Simon 1898). Cheliceral and tarsal (legs I and II) chaetotaxic patterns of the first postembryo showed equivalent chaetotaxic complexes amongst all species but revealed considerable differences between representatives of the three subfamilies. Sosippus californicus showed the most complex pattern and P. piraticus the most reduced arrangement. In addition, it casts doubt on the previous listings of H. rubrofasciata in either the Lycosinae or Piratinae, as its chaetotaxic setae arrangement was more similar to S. californicus than to any other species investigated here.
3706313|Juvenile Anyphaena sp. were collected from overwintering traps placed on the lowest limbs of white oak, Quercus alba, in South Carolina. Multiple regression analysis was used to determine that the number of juvenile Anyphaena sp. found can be predicted by the circumference of the limb, the distance from the trunk and the distance from the ground. This study helps demonstrate that the limbs of trees, although often neglected in overwintering studies, can provide a refuge for arthropods.
3706341|The erigonine spider genus Sisicottus is revised for the first time. Cladistic analysis of Sisicottus suggests the following hypothesis of interspecific relationships: ((S. montigenus, S. quoylei) (S. panopeus (S. montanus (S. crossoclavis (S. cynthiae (S. orites (S. nesides, S. aenigmaticus))))))). The monophyly of the genus is unambiguously supported by six putative synapomorphies: a terminal embolic hook, a suprategular membrane projecting apically from the distal suprategular apophysis, copulatory ducts that originate on the ectal side of the spermathecae, imbricated stridulatory striae, the presence of two dorsal macrosetae on tibia III, and the absence of a trichobothrium on metatarsus IV. Evidence for the monophyly of each Sisicottus species is discussed. A taxonomic key, diagnoses, descriptions, quantitative character values, illustrations, locality records, natural history information, and distribution maps are presented for the nine recognized species. Five new species are described: S. quoylei, S. panopeus, S. crossoclavis, S. cynthiae, and S. aenigmaticus. Typhochrestus uintanus (NEW COMBINATION) is formally transferred out of Sisicottus.
20617597|The ability to distinguish fossil arthropod carcasses from their molts is necessary for a more complete understanding of the arthropod fossil record and for more accurately assessing the role of fossil arthropods in paleoecosystems. Taphonomic characteristics, e.g., recurrent patterns of disarticulation of exoskeletal elements, are the primary data that have been used to differentiate fossil exuvia and fossil carcasses among arthropods. This study documents recurrent taphonomic patterns in modern scorpion carcasses and molts and extends these patterns to the fossil record to define criteria by which fossil scorpion molts might be distinguished from fossil scorpion carcasses. The three most useful and statistically significant characters in making the scorpion carcass/molt distinction are: position of the chelicerae (drawn in or extended); position of walking legs (folded or splayed); and body line (straight or curved). Two other characteristics, the position of pedipalps and presence or absence of telescoped segments, approach statistical significance and are also potentially useful. Disarticulation data are not as useful for distinguishing fossil scorpion molts and carcasses, because there are no statistically significant differences in length of time to total disarticulation or in the sequence of disarticulation between scorpion molts and carcasses. Among extant arthropods, scorpions posses the body plan most similar to that of the extinct eurypterids. Therefore, the taphonomic criteria developed for distinguishing fossil scorpion molts and carcasses may have implications for understanding molting among eurypterids.
3705670| In northern Queensland the eggs of Latrodectus hasselti have a lower developmental temperature threshold than do postembryos which in turn have a lower threshold than first instar spiderlings prior to emergence from the egg sac. Emerged spiderlings, however, develop normally at temperatures below that which would prevent emergence from the egg sac. Arrested development of free-living first instar spiderlings may require a temperature of 10C or less (Forster 1984). The subsequent stadia for both sexes are in general shorter than for the American species of Latrodectus which mature later and live longer than L. hasselti. For all species of Latrodectus for which temperature-controlled data are available males have consistently longer early stadia than do females, partly compensating for an asynchrony in time to maturity. L. hasselti males usually matured in the fourth instar, females in the sixth. 
3705037|Direct observations of the wolf spider Schizocosa ocreata (Walckenaer) in a deciduous woods during its breeding season indicated that soil moisture, deciduous leaf litter, and herbaceous vegetation influenced the patterns of their distribution and movement. Areas of high soil moisture, non-compressed litter, and a micro-canopy of herbaceous vegetation comprised the microhabitat with highest spider density. Spiders tended to travel greater distances in the drier patches, suggesting that the increased level of locomotion was related to increased searching for favorable environments. S. ocreata was found to aggregate at a litter patch size of 625 cm
3706302|In sub-social spiders, restricted dispersal of young (i.e., natal philopatry) and the potential for inbreeding could contribute to within-population subdivision, thus resulting in a population structure similar to that found in social congeners. In this context, we analyzed the origin and mode of individual distribution patterns and their contribution to within-population structure in juveniles of the sub-social spider Stegodyphus lineatus. We investigated the distribution of juveniles for four months after leaving the maternal nest using allozyme genetic markers. We found that isolated groups of juveniles consisted predominantly of siblings, whereas larger aggregations of individuals showed mixing of different juvenile sibling groups. However, even within such aggregations, sibling groups could be identified. Within the population at large, a heterozygote deficit and an uneven distribution of alleles were found. This was caused by limited movement of juveniles and males away from the natal site. Thus, the within-population (intrademic) structure could be partitioned into two components, resulting from kin-groups and population subdivision into demes. We compare this type of population structure with that found in non-social and social species, and discuss whether it provides conditions that could favor the evolution of sociality.
4129810|We examined the prey caught in L. intermedia webs in one fragment of forest and in the garage of an urban house in Curitiba, Brazil. A total of 693 prey items was recorded in 131 webs. The prey richness was greater in the forest. The results show that L. intermedia is a dietary generalist. We found remains of L. intermedia in the feces of a frog and a bat in the forest.
3705019|Two new species, Anyphaena leechi and A. bromelicola, are described from Mexico; new records for other species of the celer group of Anyphaena are presented.
3705297|This paper presents a review of the genera of extant whipscorpions (Arachnida: Uropygida, or Thelyphonida), and of the characters used in their systematics. Family group and generic taxa are keyed and diagnosed, and a synoptic list of the species and their distribution is given. The family Mastigoproctidae is relegated to synonymy, the subfamily Hypoctoninae is elevated to family status, and the subfamilies Uroproctinae and Typopeltinae are created.
4129798|Glenognatha emertoni (Simon 1887) is a small haplogyne orb-weaver collected near streams and dry streambeds in southern Arizona whose habits are unknown. Field observations revealed that G. emertoni are commonly found in vegetation overhanging streams and, more rarely, under stream-side rocks. Mating pairs were observed on or near adult female webs. Males lack mate-guarding behavior and leave the female immediately after copulation. To examine mating behavior in a controlled setting, juveniles and adults were collected from the field and maintained in the lab. Matings were arranged between wild-caught adults and also between laboratory-reared virgins in order to describe mating behavior and sperm release during copulation. Unlike most other orb-weaving spiders studied, the number of sperm released and overall duration of copulation are not influenced by female mating history in G. emertoni. Male G. emertoni release equivalent numbers of sperm to virgin and non-virgin females. Given this pattern of sperm release and the lack of mate-guarding behavior by males, sperm competition should be intense in this species. Based only on the numbers of sperm released by each male in the study, doubly-mated females would be expected to produce egg sacs of mixed paternity, if all else were equal.
3706355|The linyphiid spiders Oedothorax gibbosus (Blackwall 1841) and Oedothorax tuberosus (Blackwall 1841) were formerly described as separate species due to marked differences in prosomal structures of the males. During the last decade it was demonstrated that they are two forms of a single species. However, it remained to be shown whether the former species represent two distinct morphs or extremes of a continuum of variation. A morphometric examination of 246 alcohol-preserved specimens revealed that individual spiders can clearly be assigned to one of two forms. No intermediates were found, demonstrating that there are two distinct morphs.
4149969|We report on the structure of the small-subunit ribosomal RNA (18S rRNA) sequence from Hyptiotes gertschi (Araneae, Uloboridae), which is the largest 18S gene sequenced in any arachnid to date. We compare this remarkable sequence to those from a range of other spiders and arachnids, and develop base-pairing models of its insert regions to determine its overall secondary structure. The H. gertschi sequence of 1902 bases is 86 nucleotides longer than any comparable spider sequence and contains 5 inserts between 5 and 28 bases in length, all at regions characterized as among the most variable in eukaryotic 18S genes. Inserts were also found in one of these variable regions in published sequences of 3 species of hard ticks (Acari, Ixodidae). Other arachnid taxa were remarkably uniform in 18S primary sequence length, ranging from 1802 to 1816 nucleotides. Thermodynamic modeling of the H. gertschi inserts suggests they are largely self-complementary, extending the stem portions of the variable regions.
23610258|Spitting spiders, Scytodes spp., rapidly expectorate a zig-zag of silk from cephalothoracic glands through openings at the base of their fangs, tacking down prey before feeding. Previously, scavenging of dead prey was considered rare among the Araneae but, in laboratory bioassays, it is exhibited across a wide spectrum of spiders including Scytodes Latreille 1804. When presented with dead spiders as prey, two species of araneophagic Scytodes spiders secured their meals without deploying the probably metabolically expensive cephalothoracic silk in 25 of 30 feeding episodes. Scytodes globula Nicolet 1849 scavenged without spitting in 16 of 30 trials (53%), whereas S. atlacoya Rheims et al. 2007 did so in 9 of 36 trials (25%). Therefore, spitting spiders show behavioral plasticity in securing prey, conserving resources when necessary.
4149963|Two new species of wolf spiders in the Pardosa modica group (Araneae, Lycosidae) are described from North America: P. knappi from high-elevation lakeshores in the Sierra National Forest, California, USA, and P. pedia from prairie habitats in Saskatchewan, Canada.
3705536| The Paraguayan species Teminius agalenoides (Badcock), originally described from juveniles only, is removed from the synonymy of T. insularis (Lucas) and considered valid. The Argentine species Philisca filixnotata Mello-Leito is transferred to Teminius and placed as a junior synonym of T. agalenoides; males of that species are described for the first time. Syrisca fasciata Schenkel, from Venezuela, is newly synonymized with Teminius hirsutus (Petrunkevitch). 
4129825| Pitfall trap and sweep net samples were taken over a period of fifteen months (2002-2003) in the Kenya Long-term Exclosure Experiment (KLEE), in which the presence of domestic and wild herbivores have been independently manipulated since 1995. ANOVA and ANCOVA showed that the exclosure treatments significantly affected plant cover, with the presence of cattle significantly reducing the relative vegetation cover and spider diversity. Herbivory by indigenous mega- and meso-herbivores did not have a significant influence on the diversity of the spider fauna, but abundance of three dominant species {Cyclosa insulana Costa (Araneidae), Argiope trifasciata Forskl (Araneidae) and Runcinia flavida Simon (Thomisidae)) decreased in cattle-grazed plots. In contrast, Aelurillus sp. became more prevalent where cattle have been grazing. Multivariate analyses revealed that the spider community responded to grazing pressure by aggregating into three groups that reflected control, cattle grazing and non-cattle grazing clusters. It was probable that the direct effects on vegetation mediated an indirect influence of herbivores on spider diversity. The relative vegetation cover was a positive predictor of spider diversity. Spider communities were found to be an indicator of the activity of mammals and could be used as indicators of land use changes and for bio-monitoring. 
23610284|The sympatric occurrence of species is thought to be based mainly on the differences in their use of habitat and of limiting resources. Segregating parameters may be of spatial or temporal character and may include behavioral differences. We hypothesized that species of large hunting spider living sympatrically in a Costa Rican lowland rain forest should differ in their habitat and/or hunting microhabitat preferences, in daily activity pattern, and, as an adaptation to the preferred hunting microhabitat, in their specific ability to adhere to smooth surfaces. We found an assemblage of eight large species of the families Ctenidae and Trechaleidae, consisting of three subguilds: 1) two semi-aquatic species with low adhesion ability, 2) three forest-floor dwelling species with good adhesion ability, and 3) three vegetation dwelling species showing very good adhesion ability. The species were partially segregated by habitat type, with two of the vegetation dwelling species preferring the treeless area of a temporary swamp. We found no species-specific differences in daily activity patterns. The similarity in community structure between this Costa Rican and a central Amazonian assemblage suggests the existence of similar structuring mechanisms in wandering spider assemblages in climatically similar biomes.
23610235|The phenotype of animals is often determined by an interaction between genes and the environment. In spiders, recent work has shown that the nutritional composition of prey can have a large effect on the growth and reproduction of spiders. I tested whether the growth of juvenile spiderlings was affected by an interaction between the clutch and the diet on which they fed (i.e., high or low nutrient) in both a wandering (Tigrosa helluo (Walckenaer 1837)) and a web-building (Pholcus phalangioides Fuesslin 1775) spider. Diet was manipulated by feeding spiderlings similar quantities of food that varied in their nutritional composition. The results for both species followed the same pattern. Overall, spiderlings fed the high-nutrient prey were larger, both in terms of mass and body size. However, there was significant variation in effect size among clutches, with some clutches showing large effects of nutrients on growth and other clutches showing little or no effect of nutrients on growth. In both species, there were no differences among clutches in the final mass and size of individuals on the low nutrient treatment. The differences among clutches were due to differences in the mass and size of spiderlings on the high nutrient treatments. These results highlight the importance of incorporating a diverse range of clutches or genotypes in studies of spider nutrition to ensure that the results are generalizable and not biased by particular genotypes or clutches.
3706301|Based largely on 668 one-hour samples collected during a survey of spiders in 16 major habitats of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, habitat distributions, life history patterns, and other natural history traits are described for 14 species in the related theridiid genera Theridion, Rugathodes, and Wamba. Two to eight of these species were found in each of the 16 habitats. Among-habitat differences in the kinds and relative abundance of these species suggest that they may be good predictors of habitat. Richness, diversity, and evenness of this species assemblage are highest in middle to low elevation habitats. Rugathodes aurantius and R. sexpunctatus, two boreal sister species, are abundant in the highest elevation habitats, but differ sharply in microhabitat and habitat preference. Theridion frondeum is much more common in high elevation habitats than is its sister species, T. albidum, which is virtually limited to middle and low elevation habitats. Theridion lyricum is most common in dry, pine-dominated forests. The three most common species (R. aurantius, R. sexpunctatus, and T. frondeum) have a simple annual life cycle of five or six instars and similar phenologies: they mate during late spring (R. aurantius and R. sexpunctatus) and early summer (T. frondeum) and over-winter in antepenultimate and/or penultimate instars. Female-biased sex ratios were observed in juvenile cohorts of these species. Rugathodes aurantius, its natural history previously unknown, places its webs on the undersides of broad-leafed herbs close to the ground and captures small flying insects. Adult females engineer partly folded leaf retreats, carry the egg sac when disturbed, help their instar II spiderlings exit the egg sac, and then share the retreat with these spiderlings for at least a few days. Rapid early development (about two weeks from oviposition to emergence from the egg sac), the presence of females with egg sacs throughout the summer, and smaller clutch sizes in late summer suggest that a typical R. aurantius female produces more than one clutch.
3705038|The silk produced by the spider contributes not only to the security of the individual (dragline, retreat, eggsac) and to capture prey (snare) but also plays a role in the exchange of information between individuals. The structured silk constitutes a network favorable to the transmission of vibratory phenomena but a single silk thread can also inform a spider of the presence of a conspecific and of its sexual identity through tactochemical cues. A number of authors have shown, namely in Lycosidae, that the substratum of the female's silk with which a pheromone is associated, triggers off the courtship of the male. Moreover, an individual coming across a dragline can orientate its locomotion according to the identity of the spider which emitted the thread. Results obtained with Tegenaria domestica and T. pagana, in a T-maze, show that specific female sexual factors associated with the silk enable the male to orient its movements. The nature of these factors has not yet been determined. It is probably a pheromone. In our experimental conditions the specification of these factors appears to be only partial. A male coming across another species' dragline will follow it. But given a choice between a conspecific dragline and a different species' dragline, it will move towards the former. Finally, a male sexual factor able to orientate the female's direction has been demonstrated in Tegenaria domestica. The silk-provided tactochemical information allows the spiders to orient themselves towards conspecifics and to adjust their behavior (courtship behavior) according to the conspecifics they may meet. Similar results have been obtained with another species of Agelenidae (Coelotes terrestris) and with two species of Araneidae (Araneus sclopetarius and A. cornutus). In social spiders there exists the problem of group cohesion which has been studied by using the same techniques.
3705106|In South Australia Clubiona are predominantly found under the bark of Eucalyptus trees, especially E. viminalis and E. leucoxylon. C. robusta, the largest of four coexisting species at this location matures in 10 instars (females), males in seven to nine instars. Males reared in the laboratory are smaller than those collected in the field. C. cycladata matures in five or six instars. C. robusta constructs two types of silk retreats; nests and moulting chambers. Nests have thicker silk walls and provide sites for females to overwinter, mate, lay and guard their eggs. Measurements of temperature and humidity in nests during summer indicate that they provide more favourable conditions and probably reduce the likelihood of desiccation to the resident spider, eggs and juveniles. Moulting chambers are constructed by juvenile instars as sites for moulting. C. cycladata constructs thin-walled nests that resemble the moulting chambers of C. robusta. Females of all species lay one or two egg masses per season. Eggs are present in the field for up to eight months of the year (August-April). C. robusta produces a mean of 131 eggs per egg mass and C. cycladata 26 eggs. C. robusta displays a significant positive correlation between body size and number of eggs produced. Juveniles hatch in the nest, go through two moults and disperse during the third instar. Adults are present at all times of the year but display a summer peak in numbers. There are two generations per year, a summer and a winter generation, but these are not discrete. C. robusta overwinters both as adults and juveniles. Mortality is assumed to occur in two phases; due to egg-parasitoids (Ceratobaeus spp.), and during the dispersal phase of third instar juveniles. Data from this study is discussed and compared with that published for other clubionids and other spiders.
20617588|We used experimental manipulations to test adaptive explanations for the courtship display of the male widow spider, Latrodectus pallidus O. Pickard-Cambridge 1872. Two hypotheses have been suggested to explain a long and complex male display: a) Cooperation of males and females in the effort to physically stimulate the female. As the time of male arrival is not predictable, females may delay sexual readiness until the appearance of a courting male. b) Conflict between males and females regarding the display cost. Females impose on the males an energetically costly display that may last several hours as a test of their quality. To test both hypotheses, we manipulated the previous experience of either the male or the female. We presented naive or experienced males (males that had courted and were accepted by females but were prevented from copulating) to females that were either naive or experienced (had been courted by a male but prevented from copulating). We also presented naive males to mated females. Following the stimulation hypothesis, courted females were presumed to have been stimulated to mate and thus were expected to accept non-courting males as mates. Both naive and mated females, however, were expected to await male stimulation before allowing copulation. In contrast, the conflict of interest hypothesis predicts that the female tests each male for quality indicators and therefore a non-courting male should not be accepted as a mate. Mated females, however, should apply a less stringent test to courting males. Our results show that 1) naive females prevented males that did not perform a full courtship display from entering the nest and mounting; 2) naive males courted virgin females with the full display, independent of the female previous courting history; and 3) naive males shortened their courtship when presented with mated females. The results are consistent with the conflict of interest hypothesis.
20788613|The Neotropical spider genus Paradossenus is revised and currently comprises a total of 14 species. P. andinus (Simon 1898), P. protentus (Karsch 1879) and P. venezuelanus (Simon 1898) are new junior synonyms of P. longipes (Taczanowski 1874), the type species of the genus. Five known species, P. longipes, P. caricoi Sierwald 1993, P. pulcher Sierwald 1993, P. corumba Brescovit & Raizer 2000, and P. minimus (Mello-Leito 1940), are redescribed and illustrated. New species: P. isthmus, P. benicito, P. amazonensis, P. acanthocymbium, P. tocantins and P. pozo are described from both male and female. The new species P. sabana is described only from the male while P. junin is described only from the female. The subfamily Trechaleinae is erected, diagnosed, and an illustrated key to all the included genera is presented.
3706126|Eriophora fuliginea (Araneae, Araneidae), a tropical orb-weaving spider from Panama, undergoes a dramatic color change in the course of its ontogenesis. The first free instar has an amber opisthosoma, which soon becomes bright yellow, later green. Subadults change to olive, adults are dark brown with a white median stripe. Parallel to this color modification the spider's behavior changes as well. The main activity phase shifts from day to night and web architecture changes from symmetrical horizontal orb-webs on the upper side of leaves with the spider on the hub, to asymmetrical horizontal orb-webs between shrubs with spiders in a rolled leaf nearby.
41758962|We investigated abundance and web characteristics (web elevation and spiral area) of the spiny orb weavers Micrathena gracilis (Walckenaer 1805) and Micrathena mitrata (Hentz 1850) using transect surveys in oak-hickory forest stands in west-central Illinois. Surveys resulted in 153 collected individuals or observations of adult females (70 M. gracilis and 83 M. mitrata). Peak abundance of both species occurred in late July, with a density of 0.03 females per m 2 for each species. Web spiral area and web elevation were both greater for M. gracilis than M. mitrata. Micrathena mitrata web spiral area was larger in plots in which spiders had been previously removed than in plots without removal. These results suggest that the two species have different vegetation structure or microclimate preferences, and may respond to availability of unoccupied habitat differently.
3705777| Description of the male of Achaeranea jequirituba (Araneae, Theridiidae). The male of Achaearanea jequirituba from Misiones province (Argentina) is described and new distributional records and biological considerations are given. /// Se describe el macho de Achaearanea jequirituba de la provincia de Misiones, se amplia su distribucin geografica y se aportan consideraciones biolgicas. 
3705101|The courtship of bowl-and doily spiders (Frontinella pyramitela) is both prolonged and elaborate. Our analyses of videotaped courtships reveal patterns that are species typical with respect to overall temporal sequence and event dominance (in frequency and duration of individual behaviors). Transition matrices, also derived from videotape analyses, indicate that the pre-mount phase of courtship involves stochastic cycling among six distinct behaviors. Though the timing of the transition to the mount phase of courtship is crudely predictable, no single courtship behavior precedes the mount phase more frequently than is expected by chance. Many of the behaviors visible during courtship produce web-borne vibrations that affect the motion (and the behavior) of the recipient spider. Descriptions of the motions of the vibration effectors and of the web-borne vibrations that mediate Frontinella courtship are presented. Based on our analyses of the vibratory signals and of the patterns evident in courtship, we conclude that F. pyramitela courtship functions in species recognition or suppression of female aggression early in courtship, and that later events in courtship facilitate the stimulation and/or synchronization of the prospective mates.
24717338|Morphological and SEM analyses were carried out on the chorion of freshly laid eggs, eggs at different time intervals after oviposition and after hatching of a Namibian segestriid spider Ariadna sp. The eggs laid in the laboratory are held together by a milky-white mucous secretion that gradually decreases until it almost entirely disappears. The eggs are spherical/ellipsoid in shape and, only after the reduction of the secretion, are granular structures of the exochorion evident. Granules are arranged in a single layer and lie on a compact endochorion covering the thin vitelline membrane. No significant difference was found in the chorion of hatched eggs compared to eggs a few hours after oviposition.
25067874|Trochosa sepulchralis (Montgomery 1902) is recognized as the senior synonym of Trochosa acompa (Chamberlin 1924) based upon careful examination of critical morphological characteristics. In addition, Trochosa abdita (Gertsch 1934), once considered a junior synonym of T. acompa, is now recognized as a valid species. Trochosa sepulchralais and T. abdita are fully illustrated and described, and essential information regarding species identification, morphological dimensions, and geographic distribution is included.
4489041|This paper describes the first South American species of Hesperopilio Shear 1996, a genus previously known from a single species, H. mainae Shear 1996, from Western Australia. The new species is known from a single adult female and is one of the largest and most colorful species of the superfamily Caddoidea. The generic diagnosis of Hesperopilio is emended to accommodate information from the new species.
3706375|We compared day sampling (between 0700 and 1100) and night sampling (between 1900 and 2300) of spiders on grapevines in a California vineyard in 1993 and 1994, shaking spiders from the vines onto a drop cloth and vacuuming them up. Pooled density of the seven most abundant spider species did not differ significantly between day and night sampling, nor did density of Cheiracanthium inclusum (Miturgidae), Trachelas pacificus (Corrinidae), Oxyopes spp. (Oxyopidae) or Neoscona oaxacensis (Araneidae). Under day sampling Metaphidippus vitis (Salticidae) was 60% more abundant and Hololena nedra (Agelenidae) more than 2.5 fold more abundant than under night sampling. Daytime sampling generally resulted in a higher percentage of capture for each spider taxa analyzed, but neither of the diversity indices (Shannon-Wiener, Simpson or Bray-Curtis) showed any difference between day and night sampling. Parameters generated by Taylor's power law indicate a uniform distribution for most spider taxa, which was not affected by sampling time with the exception of H. nedra. We suggest that at vineyard sites in California with a similar spider community, sampling can be limited to daylight hours if a sampling method is used which is sufficiently vigorous to dislodge spiders from their resting places.
3706253|A new genus Anysrius is proposed for two new species from Tasmania, Australia: A. chamberlini (type species) and A. brochus. Anysrius represents the sister-genus to the northern hemisphere genus Syarinus Chamberlin, but males differ in differences in the morphology of sternite II and IV. The biogeographic aspects of the new discovery are examined, and the Syarinus-Anysrius clade is considered to represent an ancient relict which evolved prior to the breakup of Pangea during the Mesozoic. This distribution pattern is considered to be 'bipolar' and is compared with that of the pseudoscorpion family Pseudogarypidae, which is also known from Tasmania and the Holarctic.
3705237|Nematode parasites of spiders and harvestmen are restricted to members of the family Mermithidae. A literature review shows that nematode parasitism of arachnids is worldwide and at least 51 species of spiders and harvestmen have been recorded as hosts of mermithid nematodes. Infected spiders have varied habits and it is postulated that two types of parasite life cycles probably exist and that the indirect life cycle (involving a paratenic host which falls prey to the arachnid) is probably the common type.
3706141|Guasinia persephone, a new species of the family Guasiniidae, is described from the soil of an inundation forest in Brazilian Amazonia. This family was hitherto only known from two species from Venezuela. Male genitalia of the new species are described in detail. A close relationship of Guasiniidae with Zalmoxidae and Fissiphalliidae is proposed on basis of genital morphology. This is the third species of blind Laniatores from Brazil and the first from leaf mold, one is from termite nests and the other is from a cave.
25434334|A new species of the crab-spider genus Xysticus (Thomisidae), X. albertensis, is described from northern Alberta, Canada. Specimens are compared with those of three species that closely resemble them and live in the same geographical region, namely, X. chippewa Gertsch 1953, X. canadensis Gertsch 1934, and X. britcheri Gertsch 1934.
41758964|We examined differences in predatory behavior between two age groups (newly hatched spiders vs. spiders over 12 weeks old) of Yllenus arenarius Menge 1868 (Araneae: Salticidae). The spiders hunted three prey taxa (leafhoppers, caterpillars and thrips) for which they possess pre-programmed predatory behavior. The aim of the study was to check the influence of age and experience on pre-programmed predatory behavior and predatory success. Age-dependent changes occurred in four aspects of prdation: direction of approach, mode of approach, distance of attack and predatory success.
3706326| Austrochilus forsteri new species, (Araneae, Austrochilidae, Austrochilinae) is described and illustrated based on specimens collected in Malleco Province, Chile. /// Austrochilus forsteri, nueva especie, (Araneae, Austrochilidae, Austrochilinae) es descripta e ilustrada sobre la base de especmenes colectados en la provincia de Malleco, Chile. 
4489057|The pholcid spiders from Tibet, China, are reviewed. Seven species belonging to three genera are recorded. A new genus, Tibetia, is established, and four new species, Pholcus medog, P. zham, Belisana gyirong and B. mainling are described. And two new combinations are formed: Tibetia everesti (Hu & Li 1987) is transferred from Pholcus, and Belisana yadongensis (Hu 1985) is transferred from Spermophora.
3705693| The type specimens of six North American species, originally described in the genus Microcreagris Balzan have been re-examined. Of these, five species belong to four Microcreagris-related genera. These are: T. lata (Hoff) in Tuberocreagris uri, C. laudabilis (Hoff) in Cryptocreagris uri, A. mortis (Muchmore) in Alabamocreagris uri, and A. reddelli (Muchmore) and A. texana (Muchmore) in Australinocreagris uri. A new genus, Minicreagris, has been proposed, with Microcreagris pumila (Muchmore) as its type species. Genital areas and trichobothrial patterns are figured, and brief diagnoses and some taxonomic and distributional data for the genera and species examined are given. A key to the Microcreagris-related genera of North America north of Mexico is presented. 
41804578|Diversification of morphological characteristics among geographically separated populations is particularly important in understanding evolutionary processes and is considered the early stage of allopatric speciation. In the present study, we investigated geographic variation in scorpion populations of Bothriurus bonariensis (Koch 1842). Our principal goal was to compare different populations of this species with regard to its distribution, analyzing somatic and genitalic characters. In Argentina, specimens of B. bonariensis from Entre Rios and Corrientes Provinces are dark brown, while specimens from La Pampa have reddish coloration. Scorpions of this species from Brazil and south of Uruguay are totally black. Also, we observed variability in body size, some morphological characteristics of adult specimens (e.g., prosoma length, hand height, hand width, and telson height), and genitalic traits (e.g., hemispermatophore lamina length, basal and distal lamina width, dorsal fold length). Results indicate the presence of evident geographic variation: populations from Argentina show similar morphological patterns that differ from populations from Uruguay. We discuss these data in the context of the current phylogeographical and evolutionary knowledge of this species.
3705335|Although the theridiid spider Argyrodes trigonum has been described as a commensal, it has been found eating its host. In central Maryland A. trigonum often inhabits the web of the labyrinth spider, Metepeira labyrinthea. I performed a field experiment to assess the possible impact of A. trigonum upon labyrinth spider populations. Replicated groups of M. labyrinthea were established on four open experimental units in the species' natural habitat. Each unit was a wood frame supporting wire fencing on which the spiders built their webs. Mature A. trigonum females were added to two of the units and numbers of the labyrinth spider were monitored for 18 days. Numbers of M. labyrinthea declined more rapidly on the units to which A. trigonum had been introduced. More dead labyrinth spiders were found in these populations, and indirect evidence suggests that losses from emigration may have been higher in the presence of A. trigonum. Labelling A. trigonum as a commensal is probably misleading.
3705548|Cursorial spiders were studied in northeast Missouri from April-November 1980 in annually manipulated old-fields, in fields undergoing succession from manipulations, and a control field. Manipulations included burning, mowing, and plowing. Eleven cursorial families were collected in the study. Pitfall traps were used as the collecting device. Spider communities were compared using Bray-Curtis similarity indices. Seasonal and monthly spider and plant diversities were calculated using the Shannon Index. Spider diversity was correlated with plant diversity during May. The relative abundance of five spider species was correlated with the importance value of several plant species.
25434338|Excreta potentially provide parasites or predators with information about the presence of hosts or prey; hence, vulnerable individuals experience strong selection to minimize danger from this source. Alternatively or additionally, excreta could alert potential prey to a spider's presence. Adult female crab spiders Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757) exhibited a strong reluctance to excrete when retained under tightly confined conditions. Only 5% of regularly fed individuals (1% of total observations) excreted over observation periods of as many as 50 days while confined in 7-dram vials (5 cm high, 3 cm diameter). Individuals retained large amounts of excreta during this time. However, when released upon vegetation over two-thirds of them excreted within 5 min, after moving to the distal end of a leaf or petal such that the excreta fell below them onto lower vegetation or the substrate. In the field they showed little tendency to excrete close to their hunting sites. The ability to retain excreta should serve this relatively sedentary species well in situations where it suffers high rates of attack or may reveal its presence to potential prey.
3706296|A comparison of the biology and karyotypes of Zodarion germanicum and Zodarion rubidum (Araneae, Zodariidae) which occur in central Europe was carried out. Surprisingly, these species were found to differ in a number of characters such as pattern of activity, reproduction and karyotypes. Zodarion germanicum was observed to be diurnal, whereas Z. rubidum is nocturnal. Courtship and mating were markedly longer and more complex in Z. germanicum than in Z. rubidum. Females of Z. germanicum produced only one or two successive egg sacs including 17 eggs on average which they would guard, while females of Z. rubidum produced up to 5 egg sacs each having 4 eggs that they abandoned. The two species differ from each other also in number of chromosomes and the sex chromosome system. Results suggest these species belong to distant evolutionary lineages within the genus Zodarion.
23610263|Two new species in the genus Theridion Walckenaer 1805 (Araneae: Theridiidae) are described: T. logan, sp. nov., from Utah, USA, and T. pierre, sp. nov., from South Dakota, USA. Diagnoses, descriptions and habitat notes are provided for both sexes of these new species. Both species are from open, grassland-type habitats.
3705960|Disembolus bairdi new species is described from the coastal region of northeastern United States. Notes on the habitat, natural history and its associated spiders are provided.
24717278|The effects of elevated CO2 concentration on spiders were studied using third-instar spiderlings of the wolf spider Pardosa astrigera L. Koch 1878 in CO2 climate chambers with two different concentrations of CO2 (low, 370 ppm and high, 750 ppm). The food intake and total developmental period of spiderlings reared at high CO2 concentration increased significantly, and the body length and weight of adult spiders decreased compared to those in the low-CO2 group. The oviposition rate of female P. astrigera and the hatching rate of eggs did not differ between the high- and low-CO2 groups, but the number of egg sacs and the total number of eggs produced by females from the high-CO2 group decreased. These results suggest that elevated CO2 concentrations are harmful to the growth, development, and reproduction of P. astrigera.
3705318| Sets of two types of sticky traps, horizontal wires and vertical panel traps, the latter including clear polyester, 1/2 hardware cloth, and 1/4 hardware cloth substrates, were run concurrently for eighteen weeks in a Missouri soybean field to see which gave the best taxonomic- and mass-frequency representations of the aeronaut fauna. The wire traps significantly underrepresented the largest family (Linyphiidae) and mass class ( 0.6 mg) in the fauna. Of the three panel trap substrates, there were no differences between the two hardware cloth meshes but the polyester trap catches declined significantly during cold periods in late fall. An estimate is given of the number of hardware cloth traps needed for an effective sampling program. 
3705340|Effects of leaf shape and other habitat structure variables on spider community organization and on microhabitat selection of immature Enoplognatha ovata in deciduous forest litter were studied in central New York. Three litter boxes of each of four litter treatments (curled maple leaves, flat maple leaves, curled filter paper disks, and flat filter paper disks) were sampled monthly from November 1979 to August 1980. Twelve similarly-sized samples of natural litter also were collected, and all litter boxes and natural litter samples were placed in Tullgren funnels for extraction of spiders. Spider species richness was significantly greater in curled litter than in flat litter. Significant differences in the composition of hunting spider families also were found. Differences in species richness and composition of hunting spiders was attributed to differences in habitat space, according to leaf shape. Each litter treatment supported approximately the same proportion of hunting and web-building spiders and similar composition of web-building spider families. These data indicated similarity in prey resources among the litter treatments. A three-way ANOVA for E. ovata density revealed significant treatment effects for leaf type, leaf shape, and month, and a significant interaction occurred between leaf type and month. More spiders were found in maple leaves than in filter paper disks and greater density occurred in curled litter than in flat litter. Preference of maple leaves and curled litter by this species may be due to increased amounts of habitat space in these microhabitats. Development of immature E. ovata, associated with increases in body size and greater needs for space, resulted in differential seasonal microhabitat selection. In spring and summer, spiders grew in size and litter populations (both litter boxes and natural litter) decreased. At this time mature adults were found beneath tree leaves in the forest understory layer.
3706130|A house spider (Tegenaria atrica C.L. Koch 1843, Agelenidae) was observed, filmed and photographed while feeding on an earthworm. An extensive search in the literature revealed that several arachnologists had noted spiders feeding on earthworms, altogether in 11 different families. Earthworm-eating spiders belong mostly to larger sized species dwelling near the ground in woodlands and grasslands. Since earthworms have a high protein content, they could be a welcome supplement to the spider's usual insect diet.
24717276|Postmating cannibalism where a female attacks, kills and consumes a male after a sexual encounter is frequently influenced by certain male morphological and behavioral characteristics. We conducted behavioral assays in the laboratory to test the predictions that male Alpaida veniliae (Keyserling 1865) with larger absolute and relative size in relation to their mate and those having longer courtship and copulation duration would have lower probability of being cannibalized by females after a sexual encounter. We performed a set of mating trials exposing males of different sizes to virgin females. We observed copulation in 88.8% of mating trails; its duration was very brief compared to courtship. Only a few attempts (16.7%) of recopulations with the same female were recorded, and in all these cases the first copulation was significantly shorter than the mean copulation duration of those who had only one copulation. The percentage of postcopulatory cannibalism was 47.6%. There was no correlation between the relative and absolute male size and duration of courtship and copulation. Postcopulatory cannibalism was independent of courtship and mating durations but was affected by absolute and relative male size. Smaller males were more frequently cannibalized than large ones. However, it remains unclear whether sexual cannibalism in A. veniliae may be explained by female mate choice or whether smaller males are less able to escape or defend themselves. More studies are needed to understand the underlying factors of postcopulatory cannibalism of A. veniliae, as well as to elucidate their possible ecological and evolutionary implications.
25067893|Among the most enigmatic Cyphophthalmi are members of the genus Pettalus, a monophyletic group endemic to Sri Lanka. To date three species have been named, Pettalus cimiciformis (O. Pickard-Cambridge 1875), P. brevicauda Pocock 1897, and P. lampetides Sharma & Giribet 2006. However, the identity of the two XIX Century species remains confusing. Here the identity of the three original Pettalus specimens is revised based on their re-examination and comparison to the original descriptions, which do not match the redescriptions of these species published in the monograph of Hansen & Srensen (1904).
23070786|Research studies of the shallow subterranean habitats as environments for arthropods have been sparse up to this point. Using subterranean traps, we studied the distribution of spiders in soil profile over a depth span of 595 cm at six sites. Although almost 40% of individual specimens (1088 in total) were obtained from the epigeon (5 cm depth), spiders colonized all parts of the soil profiles examined. Beside ground-dwelling species with significant preferences for the upper layers, some species (Porrhomma microphthalmum (O. Pickard-Cambridge 1871), Centromerus cavernarum (L. Koch 1872), Cicurina cicur (Fabricius 1793), Dysdera lantosquensis Simon 1882, and Nesticus cellulanus (Clerck 1757)) commonly inhabited the whole range of the profiles studied, without any depth preference. In contrast, depigmented and microphthalmous Porrhomma microps (Roewer 1931) and Maro sp. exclusively inhabited deep soil layers adjoining void systems in bedrock.
3705837|Both sexes of the tetragnathid spider Glenognatha heleios n. sp. are described and illustrated. Data about its natural history, ecology and phenology are included. A key to the Glenognatha species north of Mexico is presented. The types of two other Glenognatha species, G. centralis Chamberlin, 1925 and G. minuta Banks, 1898, from Panama and Baja California respectively, are redescribed and illustrated.
3706376| As the disappearance of species accelerates, it becomes extremely urgent to develop sampling protocols based on efficient sampling methods. As knowledge of the Iberian spider fauna is extremely incomplete, it is becoming necessary to facilitate reliable and complete species richness inventory collection. In this work the results from six sampling methods (sweeping, beating, pitfall traps, hand collecting at two different heights and leaf litter analysis) in three habitats with different vegetation structure are compared for the inventory of Araneidae and Thomisidae in 1 km
3705989|Spiders found in and around buildings may be divided into three categories: 1) true synanthropes, which can establish breeding populations in houses, seldom occur locally in the natural environment, and have broad ranges because they may be accidentally transported to new locations, 2) spiders which are seasonally abundant in natural habitats as well as in houses, but don't establish breeding populations in houses, 3) spiders which are rarely found in houses because they are locally rare or spiders that are locally common but are rarely found indoors. Fifteen species, including the venomous Loxosceles relusa and Cheiracanthium mildei are true synanthropes in Kansas. Category 2 contains 26 species, including the venomous species Latrodectus hesperus, L. mactans, and L. variolus. There are 33 species which are rarely found indoors in Kansas. Most species listed have been reported from buildings across the United States.
4129793|Tissues of lycosid spiders were studied for RNA distributions with the basic dye Azure B. Changes in the basic proteins associated with DNA during spermiogenesis were identified with alkaline fast green staining after DNA extraction with trichloroacetic acid and by cytochemical tests for arginine. Tissue glycoproteins of the gut diverticula and the ducts of silk glands were resistant to diastase digestion and required periodic acid hydrolysis to localize reaction products with the Schiff reagent for aldehydes. Spiders possess novel types of cells that are in need of further study and may be useful as models for developmental biology.
3706059|A Palearctic spider, Linyphia triangularis (Clerck 1757), has been accidentally introduced to the U.S.A. and populations successfully established in Maine. The date, origin, and focal point(s) of introduction are unknown, but suspected to be recent, European, and maritime. Extensive historical collections, records of maritime commerce, and recent chronological collections support this hypothesis. Results of cursory surveys in 1999 and 2000 indicate that L. triangularis is now widely distributed in Maine with specimens taken in 15 of 16 counties. The potential impact(s) of L. triangularis on the native araneofauna are unknown, but possibly detrimental. In Europe, this species exhibits aggressive behaviors (e.g., web "take-overs") toward conspecifics and congenerics.
3705003|The number and sequence of individual palp applications during copulation were highly variable. Copulation duration was correlated with different mating tactics: a. adult female outside nest, type 1 courtship (vision dependent), copulate outside nest (mean duration: 14 min); b. adult female inside nest, type 2 courtship (vibratory), copulate inside nest (110 min); c. subadult female inside, cohabitation, copulate inside nest after maturation of female (863 min). Females were more likely to oviposit fertile eggs after long copulations; but given that any fertile eggs were oviposited, there was no evidence that the number varied with copulation duration. Female fidelity (the probability that she would not mate when another male courted her) was greater after longer copulations. When females became unreceptive after mating, the effect was nearly immediate. Males covered the copulatory orifices of females with mating plugs that apparently hindered insemination attempts by later males. Females that mated with more than one male included some that were capable of ovipositing fertile eggs after their first copulation. The sterile male technique (x-radiation) was used to investigate the consequences of repeated mating. Sometimes the second male failed to displace any of the first male's sperm. Other times, there was partial or complete displacement. Possible mechanisms controlling female receptivity and their adaptive significance are discussed.
25067858|Birds are common predators of arthropods in many ecosystems but their impact on spiders has not been assessed. Therefore, the experimental evidence for bird predation effects on spider populations was examined. In particular, the present review focuses on the questions: what are the ecological mechanisms and what are the evolutionary consequences? Data from 17 field experiments, mainly in forest ecosystems, showed that spider communities were often significantly affected by bird predation. Comparisons of experimental effects were based on the ratio of mean density on experimentally enclosed vegetation and on controls. In 27 tests, a significant effect was detected (mean ratio 3.03) but in 9 tests the effect was non-significant (mean ratio 1.03). Furthermore, field experimental studies on bird predation effects on certain spider species or certain genera were reviewed. In three investigations, significant predation effects were found on agelenid, linyphiid and theridiid spiders but there were no significant effects on lycosids. Selective bird predation on large individuals has been shown in studies on spider communities and single species. Data on bird predation effects on species richness were lacking although impact on large species was expected to be important. Three field experiments showed that different spider families may experience differences in bird predation pressure. An aviary experiment showed that frequently moving spiders had a higher risk of predation than sedentary individuals, but the evidence from field experiments supporting the hypothesis of high predation pressure on moving spiders was limited. This included sex-specific differences in size and movement, although at least one experiment showed that males had higher winter mortality than females. One experiment showed that bird predation can affect anti-predator behavior. In conclusion, the present evidence showed that bird predation on spiders in several contrasting forest ecosystems is strong. However, there are many hypotheses regarding bird predation on spider populations that should be examined in future field experiments.
3705025|Size-frequency histograms and other data generated from four samples (totaling 926 specimens) collected during a complete year show that a Hypochilus population in the Great Smoky Mountains has a two-year life cycle with the following schedule: spiderlings emerge from egg sacs and construct their first webs in late May; 15 to 18 months later, during their second autumn, these spiders mature, mate, and lay eggs. The growth rate and adult body size variances of this population are very large. The coefficients of variation of three palpal dimensions in a sample of 38 males are significantly smaller than those of tibia I length or carapace length. Such relative constancy of palpal characters within a population may be common in spiders and may result from stabilizing selection in one or both of the following forms: selection for the mechanical compatibility necessary for effective sperm placement during copulation, and sexual selection by female choice.
25067827|Based on a photo published in a book on New Zealand arachnids, I propose here that the cases of maternal care described by Forster in 1954 should be considered as paternal care. Maternal care is therefore restricted to the superfamily Gonyleptoidea, while paternal care has evolved in five phylogenetically independent lineages of Opiliones, including representatives of the superfamilies Travunioidea, Epedanoidea, and Gonyleptoidea.
20798571|Female Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844) wolf spiders advertise sexual receptivity toward males via silk draglines, and male P. milvina exhibit conspicuous courtship behavior when encountering silk from females. Previous studies suggest that female P. milvina may benefit by limiting silk advertisements and excreta deposition when encountering silk from the predator, H. helluo, and male P. milvina may exhibit corresponding reductions in courtship when encountering silk from conspecific females previously exposed to H. helluo silk. We tested these predictions by comparing the amount of silk and excreta deposited by unmated female P. milvina exposed or not exposed to predator cues (silk and excreta) from H. helluo. We also measured and compared male P. milvina courtship latency and intensity in the presence of silk from females previously exposed or not exposed to predator silk from H. helluo. Contrary to predictions, we found a significant increase in excreta, dragline, and attachment disk deposition after females were exposed to H. helluo cues. Male P. milvina courtship latency did not vary among treatments despite increases in female silk deposition, but males significantly decreased courtship intensity when exposed to silk from females under predation risk. Vertical climbing to escape the predator cues may cause an increase in female silk deposition.
23610288|With 30 species and a natural distribution in North America, 28 confined to Mexico, Physocyclus Simon 1893 is the most diverse genus within the pholcid spider subfamily Arteminae. This paper provides the first phylogenetic test of the genus's monophyly through a cladistic analysis of 54 morphological characters using equal and implied weighting. The equally weighted analysis found 12 most parsimonious trees, whereas the analysis with implied weights varying the concavity values (K = 610) found five or six most parsimonious trees. The monophyly of the genus Physocyclus is supported by three synaphomorphies: 1) the paired ventral apophysis on the anterior part of the epigynum; 2) the lateral constraints in the middle part of the epigynum; and 3) the arc of the uterus, with a single sclerotized projection on the anterior part. The genus Physocyclus contains two clades treated as species groups: the globosus group, with 11 species, and the dugesi group with 19 species. The species relationships within the globosus group were better resolved than those in the dugesi group. The globosus group has a biogeographical distribution pattern in the Mesoamerican and Mexican Mountain biotic components, whereas the dugesi group has a distribution pattern in the Mesoamerican and Continental Nearctic biotic components. Given the complex biogeography in Mexico, apparently a large-scale vicariant event separated the two major clades within the genus Physocyclus.
3706119| A new species in the nitidulus group of Vaejovis is described: V. mauryi from Sonora, Mxico. Morphological characters, including the hemispermatophore of the holotype male, are illustrated. The species is compared to Vaejovis decipiens, Vaejovis janssi, and Vaejovis intermedius. 
3705968|The isolation of the Hawaiian archipelago has resulted in a fauna that shows high levels of endemism. I examined the role of lifestyle, as inferred from web-building versus non-web-building behavior, in dictating the rate of differentiation and species formation within a lineage of spiders in the genus Tetragnatha from the Hawaiian Islands. This genus comprises a group of morphologically, ecologically and behaviorally diverse taxa. Included in the radiation is a 'spiny-leg' clade which never builds webs and is relatively loosely associated with a specific habitat, and a large group of web-building species which are generally more tightly associated with a given substrate and habitat. Sequences of mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase DNA provided relative estimates of the age of a clade. Both linear and logarithmic models were used to estimate rates of speciation and the relative time required for speciation for each clade. The results showed that several small clades of web-building species have a greater rate of speciation as compared to the 'spiny-leg' clade. One explanation is that the web-building species may be capable of differentiation between more closely contiguous habitats, which would be consistent with the hypothesis that ecological differentiation promotes diversification and species formation. Possible alternative explanations for the results include differences in rates of molecular evolution, for example as a consequence of differences in metabolic activity.
3705998|The ecological guild concept has been of great interest to arachnologists, and the different manner in which spiders forage for a common resource-prey arthropods-has led to numerous attempts to classify them into guilds. However, questions have been raised about the validity of guilds and the taxon-centered basis of their definition. Here, we propose an alternative approach to guild classification, using quantitative analysis of ecological characteristics of spider families. While generalizations may not apply to all species within a taxon, results from this approach suggest eight major spider guilds similar to earlier guild assignments by some authors and provide a reasonable framework for future studies. We used this classification in a comparison of spider guild composition across several major crops (from published studies). While total species richness varied widely among crops, the proportion of the total species within each guild was remarkably even across crops. The relative abundance of guilds (based on numbers of individuals) varied greatly, which may reflect availability of resources within a crop type. Patterns of similarity in guild composition suggest the possibility of plant habitat structure as an influence on the spider community. Further detailed analyses of spider guilds in various crops have been constrained by both a lack of comparable quantitative data and the paucity of behavioral and natural history information available for many taxa. As recent studies have shown that assemblages of spiders can impact pest populations and reduce crop damage, a better understanding of spider guild composition and variation in spider community structure among crops is essential in future studies of the arthropod fauna in agroeco-systems.
3705529|A new species of Schizocosa (Araneae, Lycosidae) is described and illustrated. Schizocosa uetzi new species is locally abundant in the southeastern USA and is mature during June and July. Morphological characters, coloration and courtship behavior separating this new species from its closely related congeners are noted.
3705348|Various aspects of the ecology of Lycosa carolinensis Walckenaer have been investigated in a Lower Sonoran Desert community, including surface activities, seasonal activities, and burrow construction. The average home range is
4489060|Observations on Loxosceles reclusa Gertsch & Mulaik 1940, feeding on various species of short-horned grasshoppers are presented. In this paper, prey attack strategy, duration of feeding, and behaviors surrounding feeding are reported. The spiders routinely fed on prey larger than themselves. Lightly touching prey with palps prior to feeding was always observed. The first quick bites and the first attachment sites were mostly peripheral, with later attachment sites central, on the head, thorax or abdomen. Feeding times, typically 3-10 hours, ranged up to 23 hours 38 minutes. The first long attachment was usually on a peripheral location of the prey (antenna or leg), but subsequent long attachments were more often central. Overall, 39.5% of long attachments were on the main body of the prey (not antenna or leg). Long attachments were then frequently followed by web spinning, or uncommonly, bradykinesia. Rocking, tugging or pulling at prey between attachments was common. The slow feeding from multiple sites on the prey appears to be an efficient strategy for this sit-and- wait predator to extract maximum nourishment from the large prey.
3705424|Members of a guild of cursorial spiders (Pardosa spp. and Alopecosa spp.) spatially segregate among five discrete habitats, ranging from a streamside cobble habitat extending laterally along a successional gradient to the leaf litter zone of a transition or climax high elevation (2348 m) riparian coniferous forest in Colorado. Seasonal activity peaked in midsummer for all guild members. Spiders were diurnally active earlier in streamside habitats, and levels of activity were positively correlated with light intensity. Guild members Pardosa tristis and P. uncata were most different in habitat selection and periods of diurnal activity. Males and females of all guild species differed in their distribution among habitats and over months of collection. Measures of guild species diversity and evenness were variable between habitats, and were largely influenced by the relatively high abundance of one or two guild species, particularly in the streamside habitats.
3705291|Trichobothrial pattern of the chelae provides excellent separation criteria for the major species groups of the genus Hadrurus. Trichobothrial nomenclature of Hadrurus is established using Vachon's as the basis. Two species groups, the "aztecus" group and the "hirsutus" group, are proposed, where they are further divided into two subgroups each, the "aztecus" and "gertschi" subgroups, and the "hirsutus" and "arizonensis" subgroups. A new species is described from Guerrero, Mexico, Hadrurus gertschi, new species where it is compared to the other species of its group, Hadrurus aztecus Pocock.
3705049|The scorpion Parabuthus villosus (Peters) shows variation in leg colors over its range. The distributions of the color morphs are parapatric. A fairly narrow intermediate zone is found where the yellow and black legged morphs meet. A similar zone is present at the parapatric interface between P. villosus and P. brachystylus. Using multivariate morphometrics the morphological variation was found to be insignificant between the color morphs, but intermediates between P. villosus and P. brachystylus show morphology in-between that of the presumed parental forms. Factors that may be involved in the maintenance of the step lines are also suggested. Finally, P. brachystylus is given subspecific status.
3706226|We document the first case of a color dimorphism in a pholcid spider. Males, females and juveniles of Buitinga safura Huber 2003 either have large black spots on the abdomen or no spots, with no intermediates. At the same time, this species shows sexual dimorphism (brown prosomal marks present in males only) and continuous prosomal pattern variation in males, females and juveniles. The abdominal pigment is located in the hypodermis.
3705676|Metasolpuga picta (Kraepelin) is a diurnal solifuge restricted to the Namib Desert of SWA/Namibia. Burrowing, mating, oviposition, and feeding behaviors are described and compared with other solifuge species. Thermoregulatory behavior, previously undocumented for solifuges, is associated with diurnal habits. Populations were bivoltine in 1979, whereas all solifuges previously studied have been univoltine. The biology of M. picta is otherwise similar to that of nocturnal species from North African, South-west Asian, and North American deserts.
20798577|The hypothesis that fluorescence in scorpions functions in the detection of ultraviolet light was tested. We reduced the fluorescence of scorpions by prolonged exposure to ultraviolet light on a 16:8 h light:dark cycle and compared their activity levels and light environment choices to unmodified scorpions in simple arenas that were half in shadow and half exposed to light. Three different lighting conditions were tested: infrared (IR) light only, IR + ultraviolet light and IR + white light. Treatments were illuminated by infrared light for videotaping. Activity level was measured by the number of transitions from the exposed to shadowed regions, and choice was measured by the percentage of time spent in the shadowed portion of the arena. Under IR + ultraviolet light, fluorescent scorpions reduced their activity levels and the variance in habitat choice increased, compared with reduced-fluorescence scorpions. There were no differences between fluorescent and non-fluorescent scorpions in the IR only condition or in the IR + white light condition. This is interpreted as evidence that fluorescence aids in the detection of and response to ultraviolet light, and possible implications of this result in natural habitats are discussed. This is the first experimental demonstration of a possible function for scorpion fluorescence.
4129823|A survey of spiders associated with the irrigated rice ecosystem in central Kerala, India was conducted across different elevational ranges. Spiders were collected from rice fields of high ranges, midland and low land areas in two cropping seasons viz., June-September 2002 (Kanni Krishy) and October 2002-February 2003 (Makara Krishy) with a total of 144 hours of sampling time distributed across the two seasons. The sampling areas constituted Adimali and Marayoor of Idukki district (high range), Vannappuram of Idukki district and Kothamangalam of Ernakulam district (midland) and Parakkadavu and Piravom of Ernakulam district (lowland). Visual searching methods were used to sample the spider fauna from quadrats. A total of 1130 individuals belonging to 92 species, 47 genera and 16 families were recorded during the study period. Araneidae and Tetragnathidae were the dominant families and Tetragnatha mandibulata Walckenaer 1842 (Family Tetragnathidae) the most abundant species. Various diversity indices, as well as richness and Chao I estimator were used to analyze the possible effect of elevation on species occurrence; the results showed that species richness and diversity were the highest in Parakkadavu, which is a lowland area. In a cluster analysis the localities belonging to the same elevation were found to form separate groups. The species fell into seven feeding guilds. Orb weavers were dominant at all study sites.
4129875|Visual acuity in the sheet-web building spider Badumna insignis (L. Koch 1872) (Araneae, Desidae) was examined in relation to its microhabitat. We examined, using histological techniques, the major structural and functional features of the visual systems, including external and internal ocular organizations, resolution, sensitivity, focal lengths and the field of view for each eye. Badumna insignis showed little differentiation in its ocular arrangement from the presumed ancestral condition in spiders, with poor visual acuity and a small field of view. Resolution and sensitivity were low, particularly in the secondary eyes. The AM eyes were enhanced showing larger fields of view and higher sensitivity, resembling that of nocturnal uloborids. These eyes appear adapted for close-range recognition, due to short-range focus and good visual overlap.
3706374|Courtship behavior has been studied extensively in the wolf spider Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz) (Araneae, Lycosidae). While much research has tested predictions of sexual selection theory regarding male traits and female mate choice, some critical assumptions about female behavior remain untested. To determine if females mate more than once, and to what degree copulation influences subsequent female mating, a multiple mating experiment was conducted. Virgin females were paired randomly with males in laboratory containers. If mating occurred, females were paired with a second male within 24 hr, after 3 days, or after 30 days (enough time for an egg sac to be produced). Of the 101 females tested, 83 (82%) mated with the first male they encountered. The probability of a female mating the first time was not influenced by female size, male size, or male age, but varied significantly with female age post-maturity. Of the 18 males that failed to mate, 3 were cannibalized. Of the 83 males that did mate, 12 were cannibalized after mating. There was no difference between re-mating treatments (1 d, 3 d and 30 d), and analysis of pooled data showed a highly significant difference in the proportion of virgin and mated females accepting males; most females mated only once (93%). In contrast, males appeared to court and attempt mating with every female encountered (virgin and mated), and a majority of males paired with more than one virgin female mated more than once (64.5%). Results suggest that female S. ocreata are essentially monandrous, while males are polygynous, and are discussed in the context of potential conflicts-of-interest between the sexes.
3706084|Within a species, physiological tolerances and thermoregulatory behaviors may vary among ontogenetic stages or between sexes. Such different tolerances can strongly affect the ecology and life history of a species. In a laboratory study, we tested the hypothesis that Pirata sedentarius Montgomery 1904 is differentially susceptible to thermal/desiccation stress by size and sex. As predicted, male adults were more susceptible to thermal/desiccation stress than females. Unexpectedly, however, juvenile spiders survived longer under thermal/desiccation stress than adults. Furthermore, female adults without egg sacs displayed a trend toward higher thermal/desiccation tolerance than females carrying egg sacs. These results suggest that for P. sedentarius, microhabitat preferences and/or thermoregulatory behaviors may change over the course of development, and may vary between sexes and between females with and without egg sacs.
3705660|The North American spider genus Rachodrassus Chamberlin is newly synonymized with the Old World genus Talanites Simon. The type species, Talanites fervidus Simon from Israel, is redescribed, and the species of Talanites occurring in the Soviet Union are revised. Four new species are described: T. mikhailovi from Kazakhstan, T. dunini from Azerbaijan and Turkmenia, and T. moodyae and T. ubicki from California.
23070784|Evarcha culicivora, an East African jumping spider (family Salticidae), was shown in an earlier study to have an affinity for the odor from two particular plant species, Lantana camara and Ricinus communis. The olfactometer used in the earlier study was designed for choice testing. Here we focus on L. camara and, by using a second olfactometer method (retention testing), add to the evidence that the odor of this plant is salient to E. culicivora. Another 17 East African salticid species, all from different genera, were investigated using the same two olfactometer designs as used when investigating E. culicivora. The number of individuals of each of these 17 species that chose L. camara odor was not significantly different from the number that chose a no-odor control and, for each species, the latency to leave a holding chamber (retention time) in the presence of L. camara odor was not significantly different from retention time in the presence of a no-odor control. Based on these findings, we conclude that, rather than being a widespread salticid characteristic, an affinity for the odor of L. camara is a special characteristic of E. culicivora.
4129858|Information on the value of various food types for harvestmen is sparse. The aim of this study was, therefore, to clarify the quality of six different food types to a harvestman. Survival, growth and development were used as measures of fitness in a laboratory experiment. Recently hatched Oligolophus tridens were fed the following experimental diets until maturity: Drosophila melanogaster (Diptera), entomobryid Collembola (Tomocerus bidentatus/Sinella curviseta), Folsomia candida (Collembola), Sitobion avenae (Aphidoidea), Rhopalosiphum padi (Aphidoidea), and a mixed diet containing the five prey types. Survival and growth rate were high on the D. melanogaster and entomobryid diets, and low on the F. candida, S. avenae and R. padi diets. The mixed diet caused a high early mortality, later a good survival and a high growth rate. The majority of harvestmen on the D. melanogaster and entomobryid diets matured. None of the harvestmen fed pure aphid diets developed beyond the fourth instar, and only few from the F. candida diet matured. Overall, the diets separate in three levels: D. melanogaster and the entomobryid diet were high-quality, the mixed diet was intermediate, and the two aphid diets and F. candida diet were low-quality. In general, the quality ranking agrees with that of other generalist predators, though there are differences in details.
3706373|Wolf spiders (Lycosidae) typically subdue prey using their legs for capture and their fangs for the injection of venom. Spitting spiders (Scytodidae), in contrast, subdue prey by entangling them, at a distance, in a spitted mixture of silk, glue, and venom that immobilizes and may also kill them. We selected individuals of Schizocosa duplex (Lycosidae) and Scytodes sp. (Scytodidae) of approximately the same mass and carapace width to provide a quantitative assessment of their relative allocations of biomass to morphological features that might be expected to vary with prey-capture technique. As expected, the wolf spiders allocated significantly more to legs, chelicerae, and fangs, and significantly less to the venom glands, than did the spitting spiders. Further comparisons of the legs and chelicerae of the two species provided surprises. First, the legs of Scytodes were 42% longer than those of Schizocosa despite smaller overall allocation to the legs in Scytodes. And second, although the relative sizes of the chelicerae differ greatly, the shapes of the chelicerae of Schizocosa and Scytodes were not significantly different despite the radically different tasks those structures must fulfill.
25434308|Pholcidae is the most diverse family among haplogyne spiders but only 15 species have been analyzed cytogenetically. These studies revealed that the diploid number varies from 2n = 15 to 2n = 32, that there are three types of sex chromosome systems in males (X, XX and XXY), and that the chromosomes are predominantly biarmed. Within the genus Mesabolivar, only Mesabolivar luteus (Keyserling 1891) has been karyotyped, and it showed 2n = 15 = 14 + X, with all chromosomes being metacentric. In the present work, we characterize the mitotic and meiotic chromosomes of Mesabolivar brasiliensis (Moenkhaus 1898) and Mesabolivar cyaneotaeniatus (Keyserling 1891). Male mitotic metaphases of the two species showed the diploid number 2n = 17 = 16 + X; oogonial cells of M. brasiliensis showed 2n = 18 = 16 + XX. In both species, the chromosomes were exclusively biarmed, and the X chromosome was the largest element of the karyotype. Diplotene spermatocytes of the two species exhibited 8II + X and the occurrence of only one terminal or interstitial chiasma per bivalent. In M. cyaneotaeniaus, metaphases II with n = 9 = 8 + X and n = 8 were found, indicating the regular segregation of all chromosomes during meiosis I. Mitotic metaphases of M. brasiliensis stained with CMA/DA/DAPI revealed GC-rich chromatin in the terminal region of almost all autosomes, especially in pair 2. An earlier revision of the New World pholcids grouped M. brasiliensis and M. cyaneotaeniatus in a "southern group" and placed M. luteus in a "miscellaneous group." A molecular study showed a closer relationship between M. brasiliensis and M. cyaneotaeniatus than between M. luteus and either of these two species. The 2n = 17 found in M. brasiliensis and M. cyaneotaeniatus corroborates this hypothesis, given that M. luteus has a diploid number of 2n = 15.
4129857|Abdomens of male Mecolaesthus longissimus Simon 1893 are on average more than twice as long as in females, their length is highly variable, and they show extremely steep allometric values when scaled on body size (OLS, b = 2.64). Males cohabit with females, and they likely fight to defend this position as other pholcid spiders do. Male legs, which are usually used in pholcid male-male fights, do not show the usual high allometric values but a very low value (OLS, b = 0.37). Collectively, this lends support to the idea that M. longissimus males do not use their legs in fights and that male abdomens have assumed a role in male-male fights. However, behavioral data are missing and sexual selection by female choice or inter-male display might be involved. A large sample of data from taxonomic revisions is used to document that across pholcids, males consistently have longer tibiae 1 (and probably legs in general) than females. Several possible reasons have been suggested to account for longer male than female legs in various spider groups, but the pattern in pholcids remains to be explained.
24717311|Two new species of Tangaroa Lehtinen 1967 (Araneae: Uloboridae) from the Cook Islands are described here: Tangaroa vaka n. sp. from Rarotonga, and Tangaroa pukapukan n. sp. from Mitiaro, both based on male and female specimens.
3705974|Morphometric data from males of six species of Goniosoma are presented and their importance in characterization and recognition of the species is discussed. Data presented show that it is important to use intraspecific variation during descriptions of these harvestmen.
3706309|An attempt was made to recover identifiable spider sub-fossils from peat cores taken from a post-glacial basin mire in Cheshire, north-west England. Although the features normally required to identify specimens to species level in taxonomic keys were rarely preserved, carapace morphology and cheliceral dentition allowed unequivocal identification to species level in many cases. Current lack of knowledge of the autecology of wetland spiders prevents any conclusion regarding the paleoecological conditions, but the technique could reveal insights into the post-glacial development of the spider faunal assemblage of mires.
20798584|We describe a new species of tarabulida Roewer 1933 from Kenya. This genus was previously known from only two species (Tarabulida ephippiata Roewer 1933 and Tarabulida fumigata Roewer 1933) from Libya, which were described from specimens reported as females. Tarabulida mugambii new species is based on specimens collected in northwestern Kenya, representing the first complete description of a male Tarabulida and the first record for the genus from Kenya. We also discuss problems associated with characterizing Tarabulida and its placement within the Daesiidae. A lectotype is designated for the type species of Tarabulida, T. ephippiata Roewer 1933.
23048799|We examine the social characteristics and sex ratio of the recently described Anelosimus oritoyacu Agnarsson 2006. We find that this spider, whose nests occur on tree crowns and bushes in open fields near Baeza, Ecuador, lives in colonies that may contain from one to several thousand adult females and their progeny. It differs from most other social congeners in that it occurs at relatively high elevations (18001900 m) and its primary sex ratio, 2.5 females per male, is the least biased of any known social species in the genus. The low sex ratio bias may reflect a low colony turnover rather than high gene flow among colonies, as the colonies occurred in complexes that were few and far between, but appeared to be long-lived. The relatively small body size of adult females and a web that appears to allow the capture of insects from all directions, combined with individual and group foraging, may allow the formation of large colonies at an elevation where insects, albeit abundant, are for the most part small.
3705405|Two new species of kleptoparasitic Mysmenopsis spiders (M. monticola and M. furtiva) from Jamaica are described; diagnoses and natural history data are also provided. These sister species appear to have coevolved with their respective host populations of Ischnothele, also each other's closest relatives. The probable close relationship of this Mysmenopsis species pair to M. tibialis (Bryant) is discussed.
3705511|Tetragnatha elongata is associated exclusively with riparian habitats. The physiological suitability of a given environment is determined by accessibility to open water. When this is denied, spiders suffer dehydration, the rate of which is determined by the temperature and relative humidity. Where the abiotic environment is suitable, spiders build webs on any available structural support. The webs of T. elongata are short lived. Once a web has been built, a spider may rebuild at the same site or move to a new site. Prey availability appears to be the primary determinant as to which of these alternatives is adopted.
3705041| This article is a contribution to the taxonomic knowledge of Centruroides barbudensis (Pocock 1898). C. barbudensis and C. insulanus (Thorell 1877), previously considered as subspecies by Kraepelin (1899), are now reestablished as distinct species. Centruroides antiguensis, C. hummelincki and C. eustatius Armas 1976, are synonyms of C. barbudensis. Data are added on the distribution and the ecology of C. barbudensis. /// Cette note est une contribution  la connaissance de Centruroides barbudensis (Pocock 1898). C. barbudensis et C. insulanus (Thorell 1877), considres comme sous-espces par Kraepelin (1899), sont  prsent rtablies au rang spcifique. Centruroides antiguensis, C. hummelincki et C. eustatius Armas, 1976 sont synonymes de C. barbudensis. Des nouvelles donnes sont apportes sur la rpartition et l'cologie de C. barbudensis. 
3705040|Clubiona cambridgei is a vagrant hunting spider that oviposits in silken nests and remains with its eggs. Conspecifics were observed in the field feeding on unattended eggs, an unusual prey for a spider. In the laboratory conspecifics readily ate unattended eggs, but attended eggs were successfully guarded against predation by the resident. This implicates intraspecific egg predation as an important factor favoring maternal females that remain with their eggs. Although "egg guarding" is a label commonly applied when spiders remain with their eggs after oviposition, this is one of the few cases in which the adaptive significance of this behavior has been investigated.
20798572|Ocular arrangement and visual acuity were examined in Lycosa leuckartii Thorell 1870 (Araneae: Lycosidae), using histological techniques. Major structural and functional features of the visual system, including external and internal ocular organizations, resolution, sensitivity, focal lengths and the field of view, were characterized for each eye. Lycosa leuckartii had a large developmental investment in a specialized visual system with high visual acuity. The field of view extended 360 and displayed the potential for good depth perception. Anterior eyes showed average focal lengths (AL eyes 230.88 m, AM eyes 276.84 m), while the posterior eyes far exceeded them (PL eyes 499.26 m, PM eyes 675.35 m). Resolution of the anterior eyes was comparable to records in the literature for other lycosids (inter-receptor angle AL eyes 2.45, AM eyes 1.85), while the resolution of the posterior eyes was higher (PL eyes 0.78, PM eyes 0.67). Sensitivity of the lens (f-numbers) was highest in the secondary eyes and was close to some of the highest reported for Araneae (f-numbers PM eyes 0.58), but when receptor diameters were included in estimates, S-numbers were similar or lower than closely related species (PL eyes 17.5 m, PM eyes 17.6 m). There is a clear distinction in organization and function between the posterior and anterior eyes of L. leuckartii. The posterior eyes suit long- range predator and prey detection, while the anterior eyes are best for distance judgment and prey capture.
3705067|The erigonine genus Disembolus Chamberlin and Ivie, which appears to be endemic to North America, has been revised. Cochlembolus sacerdotalis Crosby and Bishop, Soudinus corneliae Chamberlin and Ivie, Tapinocyba alpha Chamberlin, Tapinocyba kesimba Chamberlin and Tapinocyba (?) phana Chamberlin have been transferred to Disembolus, while Disembolus apache Chamberlin and (in the absence of the type) Disembolus zygethus Chamberlin have been excluded from the genus. The somatic characters of the Disembolus species are very similar to those of the genera Spirembolus Chamberlin and Scotinotylus Simon, and Disembolus can be adequately defined and differentiated only on the structure of the male palpal organs and of the female epigyna. Synapomorphic genitalic characters for the genus have been identified. The genus now contains 22 species, including the following 16 new taxa: Disembolus amoenus, D. anguineus, D. beta, D. concinnus, D. convolutus, D. galeatus, D. hyalinus, D. implexus, D. implicatus, D. lacteus, D. lacunatus, D. procerus, D. sinuosus, D. solanus, D. torquatus and D. vicinus. Descriptions, diagnoses and distribution maps are given for all the species.
3705277|A systematic revision of the Schizomus simonis and S. brasiliensis species groups (Arachnida, Schizomida, Schizomidae) is presented. The following species are described and assigned to the simonis group: S. drakos n. sp., S. simonis Hansen, S. trinidanus n. sp., S. acrocaudatus n. sp., S. flavescens Hansen, S. tobago n. sp., S. mumai n. sp., and S. centralis Gertsch. Two taxa known only from females (Schizomus spp., OTU Nos. 1 and 2) are also briefly described and assigned to the simonis group. The following species are described and assigned to the brasiliensis group: S. stewarti Rowland, S. trilobatus Rowland, S. lacandonus Rowland, S. cuenca n. sp., S. sturmi (Kraus), S. brasiliensis (Kraus), S. macarensis (Kraus), S. cumbalensis (Kraus), and S. pallipatellatus n. sp. Brief descriptions are also provided for six taxa assigned to the brasiliensis group that are known only from females (Schizomus spp., OTU Nos. 7-12).
25434289|Two new scorpion species are described from Colombia: Ananteris arcadioi sp. nov. from Meta Department and Ananteris dorae sp. nov. from Nario Department. These new species raise to 62 the number of known species of Ananteris, eight of which are found in Colombia. Some comments on the taxonomy of Colombian Ananteris are included and some characters are proposed to define species whereas the usefulness of others is briefly discussed. A map with the known distribution of the different species in Colombia, a table for some characters, and a key for the identification of the Colombian species of the genus are included.
23048788|Homalonychus selenopoides Marx 1891 is endemic to the coastal plains of the Sonoran Desert in the state of Sonora, Mexico and the southwestern United States. Although the species was described more than a century ago, nothing is known about its behavior. We collected spiders in the southern Sonoran Desert to study their reproductive behavior, which we recorded with an infrared camera, mainly at night. Sperm induction was of an indirect type; males wove a triangular sperm web about 2 cm2 near the ground. Females and males prepared threads of silk and sand. Courtship behavior was intermediate between levels I and II, and the copulation position was a modification of type III, where the male tied the female's legs with silk before mating. Sexual cannibalism may occur during mating. Females began to spin their egg sac at 11 days after mating and completed it in 15 h, including ovipositioning. The outer layer of the egg sac contained sand, and the sac was surrounded by a garniture of cords of silk and sand, possibly to protect the eggs from desiccation and as a barrier to parasites and predators.
3705365| The scorpion Bothriurus bocki Kraepelin 1911 from Bolivia, previously known only from two subadult males, is now redescribed and illustrated adequately. Additional specimens of both sexes come from different parts of Bolivia. B. bocki is included in the "inermis group" of Bothriurus, which includes two species: B. inermis Maury 1981 and B. bocki. This group is mainly characterized by the absence of an apophysis on the inner face of the male pedipalp chela and by the morphology of the hemispermatophore. /// El escorpin Bothriurus bocki Kraepelin 1911, de Bolivia y conocido previamente por slo dos machos subadultos, es ahora redescripto e ilustrado convenientemente. Especmenes adicionales de ambos sexos provienen de varias partes de Bolivia. B. bocki es includo en el "grupo inermis" de Bothriurus, el cual incluye dos especies: B. inermis Maury 1981 y B. bocki. Este grupo est sobre todo caracterizado por la ausencia de una apfisis en la cara interna de la pinza de los pedipalpos del macho y por la morfologa del hemiespermatforo. 
3705100|A population of Argiope aurantia Lucas was sampled through a growing season in a swamp habitat of the Savannah River Plant near Aiken, South Carolina. Observations and physical data showed that immature females increased web area dramatically as the male population began to reach maturity. This change in web area paralleled a change in diet composition from smaller zygopterans to larger bodied libellulid dragonflies. A second shift in diet to pollinating Apidae occurred as females were initiating egg case production and was associated with blooming of smartweed (Polygonum punctatum) in the habitat.
24365297|The type material of Sarax buxtoni (Gravely 1915) cannot be located and has to be considered as lost. Therefore, a description compiled from a population in Singapore is provided, including morphological and taxonomical details presented for the first time. Comparisons with closely related species are supplied. Furthermore, we describe the occurrence of parthenogenesis in a population of S. buxtoni, representing the first case of asexual reproduction in a member of the genus Sarax Simon 1892.
3706067|The two male morphs of the dimorphic jumping spider, Maevia inclemens, differ dramatically in morphology and courtship behavior. The purpose of this study was to examine and compare the mating success of the two male types. Mating success was measured by the number and duration of copulation events, the latency of visual orientation by the female to a courting male, signals of female receptivity, risk of predation by the female, and the number of offspring produced by each morph. The morphs did not differ significantly with respect to copulation success, mating events, mating duration, signals of receptivity or the number of offspring produced. However, males did differ with respect to latency of visual orientation as a function of distance from the female. Near to the female, the gray males attracted female attention in significantly less time than tufted males. Conversely, at far distances from the female, the tufted males attracted female attention in less courtship time. This study suggests that males attain equal levels of mating success and that the two male morphs may have evolved alternative reproductive strategies for courtship at different distances from the female.
23610239|Bridging and ballooning dispersal in spiders are preceded by "tiptoe" behavior, in which the spider stands on the tips of its eight tarsi, with the legs extended downward and the abdomen raised, and releases one or more silk lines. The occurrence of tiptoe behavior has been used in experiments to indicate a propensity to initiate dispersal. Juvenile social spiders (Stegodyphus dumicola Pocock 1898 (Eresidae) exhibited tiptoe behavior while walking along the upper strands of the capture web at night. Simultaneously, they released long silk lines that streamed upward. These behaviors were not followed by dispersal. In wind-tunnel tests we found that tiptoe behavior increased with time during the evening activity period and occurred with higher frequency in small individuals. We suggest that tiptoe behavior in juveniles of S. dumicola is not associated with dispersal, but is more likely a component of web-building.
3706160|The goal of this research was to investigate the relationship between habitat structure and spider density in soybean fields managed under conservation tillage practices. Previous studies suggest that spiders respond to vegetational structure, and fields which are not tilled tend to have greater vegetational structure due to higher densities of weeds. Experimental subplots with varying densities of weeds (High, Medium, and Low weed) were established in soybean plots in southwestern Ohio. By the end of the season significantly more web spiders were found in treatments with higher weed densities. Across the season more than 87% of the spiders observed were orb-web weavers and sheet-web weavers. When considered separately, both of the common types of web spiders had higher densities in areas with higher densities of weeds. However, the degree to which orb and sheet-web weavers attached their webs to weeds differed across treatments. Orb-web weavers were more likely to attach their webs to weeds than to soybean plants or ground/ground litter in Medium weed density treatments. Sheet-web weavers were more likely to use weeds as a web attachment substrate in High weed density treatments.
3705653|Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was prepared from a single individual of the scorpion Hadrurus arizonensis Ewing. The total size of the mitochondrial genome was estimated to be 13 850 to 14 000 base pairs. The mtDNA was surveyed for cleavage sites using 17 six-base restriction enzymes and three four-base enzymes. The technique of double digests was used to construct a map of the cleavage sites generated in this mtDNA by nine six-base restriction enzymes.
4129833|A phylogenetic analysis for the North American Schizocosa species was undertaken by scoring 49 morphological characters for 31 taxa representing all of the Nearctic species of Schizocosa plus individuals that are hybrids between S. ocreata and S. rovneri. Rabidosa rabida, Allocosa georgicola and Gladicosa pulchra were used as outgroups. Three clades are recognized: a large clade from eastern North America (Clade A) within which is nested the S. ocreata clade; Clade B, which includes the widespread S. avida and the western S. mccooki, and a smaller, third clade, Clade C. Sexual ornamentation occurs on the first legs of mature males of several species within the Schizocosa and takes the form of pigmentation and or bristles primarily on the tibia of leg I; there is at least one species with bristles in each of the three main clades. Mapping the occurrence of male ornamentation on the preferred phylogeny suggests that ornamentation evolved 5 or 6 separate times and was subsequently lost 2 or 3 times. The ornamentation is concentrated in the S. ocreata clade, a clade defined by a finger like projection on the paleal process of the male pedipalp. Courtship behavior is known for 20 of the 31 taxa. All species studied utilize chemical communication and seismic signals for communication; some species also have distinct visual signals. Seismic signals are produced by palpal drumming (as is seen in several species within Clade B), or by stridulation (seen in Clade A). Visual signals consisting of movements of the first pair of legs are common in species that are distinctly ornamented. This study provides the first phylogenetic study of a North American genus of wolf spider and provides morphometric comparisons of the North American species in Schizocosa.
3706390| Two new species of Brachistosternus from Chile are described. Brachistosternus (Leptosternus) cekalovici new species can be distinguished from most other species of the genus because the divided dorsal gland of the telson. The closest species are B. (L.) artigasi Cekalovic 1974 and B. (L.) negrei Cekalovic 1975, for which redescriptions are provided. Brachistosternus cekalovici has only been collected in "Tres Cruces", Coquimbo Province, Chile. Brachistosternus (Leptosternus) mattonii new species is also described. This species is most closely related to B. (L.) donosoi Cekalovic 1974, from which it can be distinguished by its more densely granular tegument (especially on the ventral surface of the metasoma), hemispermatophore with more developed internal spines, and the lack of a telson gland. A redescription of B. donosoi is also provided. Both species are related to the Argentine plains species, whilst B. (L.) artigasi, B. (L.) cekalovici and B. (L.) negrei seem to be more related to the Andean species of the subgenus Leptosternus. /// Notas sobre el gnero Brachistosternus (Scorpiones, Bothriuridae) en Chile, con la descripcin de dos nuevas especies. En el presente artculo se describen dos nuevas especies del gnero Brachistosternus de la Repblica de Chile. Brachistosternus (Leptosternus) cekalovici new species puede diferenciarse de la mayora de las especies descriptas del gnero porque la glndula de la cara dorsal del telson, est dividida en dos mitades separadas. Las especies ms relacionadas son B. (L.) artigasi Cekalovic 1974 y B. (L.) negrei Cekalovic 1975; en este trabajo se brindan tambin las redescripciones de ambas especies. Brachistosternus cekalovici slo ha sido colectada en la localidad de Tres Cruces, en la provincia de Coquimbo, Chile. Brachistosternus (Leptosternus) mattonii n. sp se encuentra estrechamente relacionada con B. (L.) donosoi Cekalovic 1974, puede diferenciarse de ella por poseer un tegumento ms granuloso, especialmente en la faz ventral del metasoma, por el mayor desarrollo de las espinas internas del hemiespermatforo y por carecer de la glndula del telson. Tambien se brinda la redescripcin de B. donosoi. Ambas especies se encuentran relacionadas con las especies argentinas de llanura, mientras que B. (L.) artigasi, B. (L.) cekalovici y B. (L.) negrei parecen estar ms relacionadas con las especies andinas del subgnero Leptosternus. 
3705549| The scorpions belonging to the family Chactidae from Trinidad and Tobago are studied. A new species, Chactas raymondhansi, from bromeliads on the highest mountains of Trinidad is described. The type species of the genus Broteochactas Pocock, Broteochactas nitidus Pocock from Trinidad, is resurrected from its synonymy under Broteochactas gollmeri (Karsch) from Venezuela. The genus Auyantepuia Gonzlez-Sponga, from Venezuela, is synonymized under Broteochactas. 
24717332|In the present study, we examined the female genital system of a velvet spider (Eresus kollari Rossi 1846) using light and electron microscopy. The female entelegyne genitalia of E. kollari comprises an epigyne with an anterior wide longitudinal bar and folds which are incurvated sidewards. The anterior end of these folds corresponds to enlarged anterior bulges which are connected to a distinct copulatory duct leading to lobular spermathecae. The anterior bulge is equipped with many large pores whereas the spermathecae has many small pores. At present, only a few studies have focussed on the ultrastructure and possible function of adjacent epithelia in entelegyne genitalia of spiders revealing the presence of complex class 3 gland cell units around the spermathecae and ducts. Alternatively our analysis finds two different types of epithelia. The anterior bulge is equipped with class 3 gland cells whereas the spermathecae are surrounded by a putative transport epithelium. This epithelium is characterized by an extensive basal labyrinth, numerous mitochondria, and an invaginated cell apex with microvilli. The functions of the different parts are unclear, but the secretion produced by the class 3 cell glands in the anterior bulge could be involved in the transport of sperm by flushing a considerable quantity of secretion towards the posterior. Alternatively, it could also contribute to the amorphous mass which is formed during mating covering most of the epigyne. On the other hand, the epithelium around the spermathecae might only be involved in the alteration of the milieu in the spermathecal lumen but not contribute to the nutrition of spermatozoa during sperm storage.
3706096| The results of a study of new scorpion material, comprising nine species collected during a recent field trip to Trinidad and Tobago, are presented. The Trinidad population of Tityus discrepans (Karsch 1879) is described as a new species, Tityus tenuicauda, endemic to Trinidad, and more closely related to Tityus arellanoparrai Gonzlez-Sponga 1985 than T. discrepans, both from Venezuela. A key to the identification of the three species is provided. New records are provided for Ananteris cussinii Borelli 1910, Microtityus rickyi Kjellesvig-Waering 1966, Tityus clathratus C.L. Koch 1844 and Tityus melanostictus Pocock 1893. Specimens of Microtityus collected on Tobago provide evidence for the synonymy of Microtityus starri Loureno & Huber 1999 with M. rickyi. Previously unreported ecological observations are presented, including the burrowing biology of Broteochactas laui Kjellesvig-Waering 1966, and the microhabitat of Chactas raymondhansorum Francke & Boos 1986, which is apparently not restricted to water-filled spaces between the leaf sheaths of bromeliads. 
3706079|This study revises the status of knowledge of the spider fauna of the Society Islands. Until recently, the literature on the spider fauna in these islands has suggested that the genus Tetragnatha in particular is noticeable for its poor representation in comparison with the large radiation in the Hawaiian Islands. Expeditions were conducted to determine whether this genus is indeed poorly represented in the islands as the literature would suggest. The results indicate that the islands actually have a number of endemic Tetragnatha, although there is no noticeable adaptive radiation as is seen in the Hawaiian Islands. Results of field expeditions in 1999-2000 and studies on historical collections have shown that: (1) Reports of the cosmotropical species T. mandibulata in the Society Islands are probably not valid; these were misidentifications for either T. macilenta or T. nitens. (2) Tetragnatha huahinensis is a synonym of T. macilenta. (3) There are three new species of Tetragnatha, all of which are described here and appear to be endemic to middle and high elevations of the Society Islands (from Tahiti, Moorea and Raiatea). In total, there are six species of Tetragnatha in the Society Islands: in addition to the three endemic species there is one possibly indigenous (T. macilenta), and two that may be of more recent introduction (T. nitens and T. maxillosa).
3706263|Anthracomartus voelkelianus Karsch 1882 from the Pennsylvanian (Langsettian) of Nowa Ruda, Poland was listed in a 1953 monograph by Petrunkevitch as an incertae sedis species with type material possibly in Dresden. Antharcomartus voelkelianus is the type species of the genus Anthracomartus Karsch 1882 and historically one of the first described examples of the extinct order Trigonotarbida. It is a pivotal species for resolving the systematics of both Anthracomartus and a number of poorly defined, probably congeneric, taxa within Anthracomartidae. Karsch's figured types were overlooked by Petrunkevitch, but have been traced to a repository in Berlin and are redescribed here. Additional type material from Dresden and Wroclaw could not be traced. One of Karsch's figured Berlin specimens is regarded here as the holotype of A. voelkelianus, but his other figured fossil is evidently not conspecific and is tentatively referred here to Trigonotarbus sp. (Trigonotarbidae).
20788616|The genus Iviella Lehtinen 1967 (Dictynidae) comprises three North American species, I. ohioensis (Chamberlin & Ivie 1935), I. reclusa (Gertsch & Ivie 1936) and a new species from the Northern Peninsula of Newfoundland. We provide a new diagnosis of the genus, describe the new species and describe the previously unknown male of I. reclusa. We also describe or re-describe the intricate copulatory ducts and spermathecae of the three species.
20798574|Reports of Palpigradi from South American caves are rare, and no troglobiotic species have yet been described. This apparent deficiency, however, reflects merely a lack of reporting. Ten years of biospeleological surveys of 603 caves in 16 of the 26 Brazilian states, in bedrocks including limestone, quartzite, iron ore, granite, and gneiss, have led to the capture of 494 palpigrades, and specimens with troglomorphic characteristics have been found in Minas Gerais, Bahia, and Espirito Santo. Palpigrades have been found to be relatively more common in iron ore caves, and troglomorphic species apparently occupy cave habitats different from those occupied by edaphomorphic species. The description of the first troglobite species from South America is presented here. Eukoenenia maquinensis, new species, collected in the Maquin Cave Minas Gerais, Brazil, has six blades in the lateral organs, seven pairs of setae on the propeltidium, six setae on the basitarsus IV (a single proximal sternal seta) and a singular chaetotaxy of opisthosomal sternites.
3705115|A field population of Philodromus cespitum (Walckenaer) was used to test Soms' (1978) regression method of analyzing data obtained by removal sampling to obtain a population size estimate. The population density at the study site, as determined by sweep netting, was
3706154|The spider genus Napometa Benoit, which had been erroneously placed in the Metinae (Tetragnathidae), is transferred to the family Linyphiidae. The only two known species of Napometa, N. sanctaehelenae and N. trifididens, are redescribed and illustrated.
3705703|Experiments were conducted to study changes in brain amine concentrations during postembryonic development in the solpugid, Eremobates palpisetulosus. Data presented here indicate that 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) levels increase during development whereas N-acetyldopamine (NADA) levels were found to decrease. 5-HT levels showed a significant increase between the first and second nymphal instars whereas DA increased significantly after the second nymphal instar stage. Octopamine levels did not change as a function of development in this solpugid. These represent the first data available on changes in brain amines as a function of development for any arachnid. It is suggested that such neurochemical changes may play a role in the regulation of shifts in behavior associated with specific developmental stages.
4129835| This paper presents electron micrographs of the genitalia of Alopecosa psammophila, describes the morphological characteristics of the species and also gives information on its habitat preference, the co-occurring ground-dwelling spiders, and the phenological characteristics of the species. Barber pitfall trappings have been carried out since 2000 in dry sandy grasslands in three regions of Hungary: the Kiskunsg area (Kiskunsg National Park); the Nyfrsg area (Hortobgy National Park); and since 2004 the Kisalfld area (Fert-Hansg National Park). Specimens of the species, hitherto unknown in Hungary, have been collected from 17 localities in all three areas. We collected specimens in calciferous open sand steppes and in acidic open sand steppes. In the females, two activity periods were apparent (from April to end July and in October). A few males were collected in April and in October-November they had an extreme activity peak. We assume that the species has adult specimens throughout the winter. Alopecosa psammophila is most similar to Xysticus ninni Thorell, 1872 and Zelotes longipes (L. Koch 1866) in terms of its environmental needs. 
25067824|The critical thermal maximum (CTMax) of Peucetia viridans Hentz 1832 adult spiders was determined in the laboratory. Mean temperature at death was higher for gravid spiders (49.4 C) than for postparturient females (47.2 C) and males (46.9 C). Painted copper spider models placed in the environment to examine available temperatures predicted that spider body temperatures would rarely exceed 40 C thus making it unlikely for P. viridans to naturally reach CTMax, at least in the climate of central Tennessee.
20617607|Microfilistata ovchinnikovi new species (Araneae: Filistatidae), the second member of this formerly monotypic Central Asian genus, is described from Kyzyl-Dzhar Ravine, Southern Turkmenistan. The genus is redescribed and referred to the Filistatidae insertae sedis.
3704998|Feeding on inviable eggs by spiderlings is known to occur in several families. This activity has been observed in the first (quiescent) instar only, leading to the general belief that this first instar always undertakes the utilization of such eggs. However, the present study indicates that egg feeding occurs in the second instar in Achaearanea tepidariorum (Theridiidae), with the reduction in time period of the quiescent instar. There seems to be a tendency in the Theridiidae (and, perhaps, in some related families as well) toward the elimination of the quiescent instar. Egg-feeding considerably extends the life span of spiderlings and, sometimes, provides enough nourishment to carry spiderlings to the third instar without additional food intake.
4129820|Ground-living spiders were studied, using pitfall traps, 3-4 months after a wildfire, and then during three post-fire summers. The study area was a pine (Pinus sylvestris) forest in southwestern Finland. Lycosidae dominated in individual numbers at the burned site and Linyphiidae at the control. In species numbers, Linyphiidae dominated at both sites, and Lycosidae, Gnaphosidae and Theridiidae were more species-rich at the burned than control site. The lycosid Xerolycosa nemoralis was dominant at the burned site, and the linyphiid Agyneta cauta at the control. Abundant species found only at the burned site included Xerolycosa nemoralis, Pardosa riparia, Acantholycosa lignaria and Micaria silesiaca. Tapinocyba pollens and Pardosa lugubris occurred at both sites in large numbers. A slight positive effect of fire on the species richness was found. Species with more or less stable abundance at the burned site during the study period included Pardosa riparia, P. lugubris and Diplostyla concolor. Increasing abundance in successive years occurred for Acantholycosa lignaria, Micaria silesiaca, Xerolycosa nemoralis and for the family Lycosidae. Euryopis flavomaculata, Agyneta rurestris, Tapinocyba pollens and the family Linyphiidae showed a decreasing abundance during the study years. The spider community at the burned site remained clearly different compared to the control during three post-fire summers, primarily caused by the abundance of Gnaphosidae and Lycosidae.
3705528|The family Cyatholipidae is newly recorded from Madagascar, including the following new taxa: Ulwembua ranomafana new species, and Ulwembua antsiranana new species; Vazaha toamasina new genus new species; and Alaranea new genus, including Alaranea betsileo, Alaranea alba, Alaranea merina, and Alaranea ardua, all new species.
3706203|The circum-Mediterranean spider genus Dysdera has undergone an outsanding species radiation in the volcanic archipelago of the Canary Islands. The present study deals with the endemic species that inhabit the older and ecologically distinct islands of Fuerteventura, Lanzarote and their nearby islets. A new species, Dysdera sanborondon, is described. The male of D. spinidorsum Wunderlich 1991, is described for the first time. Five species are redescribed: D. alegranzaensis Wunderlich 1991; D. lancerotensis Simon 1907; D. longa Wunderlich 1991; D. nesiotes Simon 1907, and D. spinidorsum Wunderlich 1991. The species D. liostethus Simon 1907 is proposed to be a senior synonym of D. clavisetae Wunderlich 1991 and its presence in the eastern islands is considered to be doubtful. A neotype is designated for D. nesiotes. The distribution of D. alegranzaensis is extended to Lanzarote and the other northern islets. Dysdera nesiotes is reported for the first time in the eastern Canaries. Morphological affinities and distribution patterns are discussed. The remarkably lower number of endemic species harbored by the eastern islands, when compared with other Canarian islands similar in size but younger in age, is proposed to be the result of a major extinction event in the eastern Canaries due to climatic change.
24717277|Parental care entails physiological costs to the mother. These costs, even if dramatic, are usually reversible and do not result in mortality of the mother. In the spider Stegodyphus lineatus Latreille 1817 (Eresidae), maternal care is extreme and irreversible: mothers regurgitate food for the young and then die when consumed by them (matriphagy). We examined whether the mother's midgut tissues undergo structural changes in preparation for regurgitation and matriphagy. Our histological data show that the midgut diverticula (MD) tissues start to degrade during the egg sac incubation period. When the young emerge from the egg sac, the midgut tissues are partly liquefied and are retained within the MD. The degradation process intensifies when the female feeds her young by regurgitation and liquid tissue is observed within and among the diverticula lobes. The presence of the lumen of a diverticulum during the regurgitation process suggests that degenerated tissues enter the lumen and form the regurgitated fluid. At matriphagy, the abdomen is filled with liquid containing nutritional vacuoles, which the young imbibe after piercing the female's abdomen. We conclude that the MD undergoes a gradual degradation process that maximizes the nutritional potential of the female's body and finally enables complete consumption of her soma. These changes are consistent with the extreme semelparous reproductive system of S. lineatus, where a female invests all of her resources into a single reproductive event. This is the first demonstration of the mechanism underlying suicidal maternal care in an arthropod.
3704985|Phidippus Johnsoni males employ three different mating tactics. The one used depends on the type of female that the male encounters. With adult females outside nests, they use type 1 courtship, which is a form of visual communication and includes displays such as dancing and posturing. Similar courtship has been described for many salticid species. With adult females inside nests, males use type 2 courtship, which is a form of non-visual communication and includes elements such as probing and vibrating of the nest. This type of courtship is similar to that of some web-building spiders, and behavior of this type has generally received little attention in previous studies of salticid behavior. When pursuing subadult females inside nests, males use type 2 courtship followed by cohabitation. Postmount courtship is a non-visual phase that precedes copulation and occurs as a component of each tactic. The different types of courtship involve distinctly different motor patterns. In addition to male courtship signals, there are other signals performed primarily by females and subadults and some that occur primarily during aggressive interactions between males. The total number of major signals for this species is estimated as 24. Some of these occur only infrequently. The sequence of events during interactions between spiders tends to be complex.
3705259|The higher categories of the Vejovidae have been revised and keys to these categories are presented. As part of the revision a new subfamily, the Hadrurinae, has been recognized. In the subfamily Syntropinae a new genus, Vejovoidus, has been introduced. In the subfamily Vejovinae new genera recognized are Serradigitus and Pseudouroctonus. Thirteen species previously placed in the genus Uroctonus have been shown to belong to the genus Vejovis. An extensive study of the value of trichobothria in scorpion systematics is presented. The systematic status of Uroctonus fractus is doubtful. It has been eliminated from the Vejovidae and apparently should be placed in the Chactidae where it will undoubtedly be synonymized.
3705830|Activity patterns of a population of the burrow-dwelling theraphosid spider, Selenocosmia stirlingi Hogg, at Coombah (N.S.W.) are reported. Burrows were located and monitored at about 6-weekly intervals over a period of 3 years while rainfall and diurnal temperature profiles of the soil were also recorded. Spider activity was determined both from the condition of the burrow entrance and from the presence of the spider at the burrow entrance during the night. Activity was greatest in spring and late summer/fall, with low levels of activity in both winter and mid-summer. It is likely that the temperature profile in the soil was exploited behaviorally by the spiders in order to thermoregulate. Estimated losses of spiders from the population were greatest in spring and early summer, and may be due predominantly to maturing males leaving their burrows in search of females.
3706107|The eggsac of the pirate spider, Mimetus notius, is described and compared with eggs of other members of the genus. The phorid fly egg predator, Phalacrotophora epeirae, was reared from a M. notius eggsac.
24365288|We describe for the first time the behavior "Intense Leg Tapping (ILT)" being used in a prey-predator context between the Neotropical harvestman Mischonyx cuspidatus (Roewer 1913) and the syntopic spider Ctenus ornatus (Keyserling 1877). Previously, the harvestman's repeated fast dorsoventral movements of legs II had only been described during conspecific male-male interactions. We suggest it has a defensive function.
3705162| A new species of eyeless scorpion, Typhlochactas sylvestris, is described from a montane forest litter habitat in the Sistema Montaoso Poblano Oaxaqueo, Oaxaca, Mxico. It is compared to the other three species, all cave dwellers, in the genus. A revised diagnosis of the genus Typhlochactas Mitchell is given, and T. rhodesi Mitchell, 1968, is designated as its type-species. 
41804584|Temperature affects metabolic rate and egg development in mature female spiders. For temperate species, declining temperatures toward the end of the reproductive season may limit reproductive output, particularly for latematuring females. Although spiders are known to alter their web-site preferences in response to temperature, it is unknown whether females can use web placement to overcome low temperatures that prohibit reproduction and thus extend their reproductive time frame. I surveyed web temperatures for female Nephila clavipes (Linneaus 1767) to compare female web sites and control sites at the beginning and end of the reproductive season in order to assess whether females change their web preferences in response to declining temperatures. Survey data showed that the web sites chosen by females at the end of the reproductive season have a higher minimum temperature than sites occupied during the early season. In a laboratory experiment, I addressed whether a low but biologically relevant temperature affects egg development and the female's ability to oviposit in N. clavipes. Females kept at 16 C failed to oviposit and showed signs of slowed egg development. Thus this preliminary study suggests that females may be able to protect themselves against temperatures that are prohibitively low for reproduction, but further experiments should explore the effects of temperature on egg development and web-site selection in this species.
25067852|Dasychernes inquilinus Chamberlin 1929, the type species of the genus, was described from specimens taken from colonies of the stingless honey bee Melipona salti Schwarz 1932 (Hymenoptera, Apidae). For the first time since its description, we report D. inquilinus from a nest of M. compressipes (Fabricius 1804) and, to document intraspecific variation, we also provide descriptive notes on the female pedipalp and leg. We discuss the rareness of D. inquilinus and summarize published information on pseudoscorpion-bee relationships. We found a total of 15 pseudoscorpion species (six genera in three families) reported from colonies of three stingless bee species and two honey bee species. The role of pseudoscorpions within bee nests is still poorly known. Like our notes on D. inquilinus, most records of pseudoscorpion-bee relationships are sporadic observations, sparsely reported in the literature.
3705400|Species of spiders associated with the immature stages of Mantispa pulchella (Banks) are presented for the first time. Twenty species in 15 genera from the families Philodromidae, Anyphaenidae, Oxyopidae, Thomisidae, and Salticidae harbored immature stages of M. pulchella in South Carolina. Some characteristics of the life history of M. pulchella are analyzed and compared with those of other North American species of Mantispinae.
3705575|The surface portion of the tube webs of Sphodros niger Hentz lies hidden at the interface between duff and overlying pine needles in early successional pitch pine-oak woods on Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Males search for females in June. Spiderlings hatch in August and leave the mother the following April. Millipedes appear to be the principal food item. The surface tubes of older juvenile spiders vary from 13 to 15 cm in length and tend down slope. The surface tube has the consistency of thin parchment. The underground portion varies little in length, averaging 13 cm, and is a simple cylinder. The only adult female web found had a surface tube 63 cm in length. This female had at least 73 spiderlings.
3705024|A systematic revision of the family Sternophoridae is presented. Three genera are recognized: Garyops Banks, Idiogaryops Hoff and Afrosternophorus Beier; the latter is given full generic status. These genera are distinguished solely on the female genitalia. The following generic synonymies are proposed (junior synonym first): Sternophorus Chamberlin = Garyops; Sternophorellus Beier = Afrosternophorus; Indogaryops Sivaraman = Afrosternophorus. The following species are synonymized with A. ceylonicus (Beier): Sternophorus transiens Murthy and Ananthakrishnan, S. indicus Murthy and Ananthakrishnan, S. montanus Sivaraman, S. femoratus Sivaraman, S. intermedius Sivaraman and Indogaryops amrithiensis Sivaraman. Four new species are proposed: Afrosternophorus anabates (Australia), A. fallax (Vietnam), A. nanus (Australia) and A. xalyx (Australia). Garyops contains depressus Banks, sini (Chamberlin), centralis Beier and, possibly, ferrisi (Chamberlin). Idiogaryops consists of paludis (Chamberlin) and pumilus (Hoff). Afrosternophorus contains aethiopicus (Beier), anabates, new species, araucariae (Beier), cavernae (Beier), ceylonicus (Beier), chamberlini (Redikorzev), cylindrimanus (Beier), dawydoffi (Beier), fallax, new species, grayi (Beier), hirsti, (Chamberlin), nanus, new species, papuanus (Beier) and xalyx, new species. Two species-groups are proposed in each of the two genera Idiogaryops and Afrosternophorus to accommodate species with differing trichobothrial numbers. Male genitalia was found to be a useful adjunct to traditional characters, and a detailed description of the male genitalia of A. hirsti is presented. Post-embryonic development, biogeography and possible evolutionary pathways are discussed.
3705026|Egg feeding activity has been observed within the egg sac in spiderlings of two species of Tegenaria Latreille (Agelenidae), in which this phenomenon had not been previously reported. The two species differ in their proportion of egg consumption; their ecological characteristics and life cycle are probable factors that account for the proportional difference in egg feeding.
41758981|Subsocial spiders are located on the continuum between solitary species and social species and are characterized by extended maternal care, some cooperation in foraging and colony activities and dispersal in order to found new colonies. In the genus Anelosimus (Araneae: Theridiidae), up to nine species are thought to be subsocial. One of these spiders, A. baeza Agnarsson (2006), is distributed across a large geographical range from Mexico to southern Brazil, and potential differences in behavior in different populations are unknown. We studied the ecology and behavior of a population of A. baeza in a cloud forest habitat in Mexico. We tracked the population for ten months, analyzed the degree of cooperation and the presence of associated species, and explored the settling decisions made by dispersing spiders. We show that the breeding season for A. baeza in Mexico differs from other populations elsewhere in South America. Using a kinematic diagram, we recorded the sequence of behaviors involved in subduing and feeding on a model prey species. Larger colonies harbored more associated species. Anelosimus baeza prefers to settle in locations that already contain conspecifics or silk. Our study demonstrates that A. baeza is a viable candidate for research into sociality in spiders and its geographical correlates.
3705227|The Metaphidippus arizonensis group contains two species, Metaphidippus arizonensis (Peckham and Peckham) and M. helenae (Banks). The two species share similar genitalic morphology. M. arizonensis occurs in both tall and shortgrass habitats in the central grasslands from southern Alberta to eastern Minnesota south to Arizona and New Mexico. M. helenae occurs in the interior basins of North Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming, and in saline marshlands of central California. Both species are redescribed and M. glacialis (Scheffer) is synonymized with M. arizonensis.
3705300|A survey is reported of the North American species of the erigonine genus Walckenaeria s.lat. Erigone (Minyriolus) castanea Emerton, Sisicottus cornuellus Chamberlin and Ivie and Sisis saniuana Chamberlin and Ivie are transferred to Walckenaeria. The following synonyms are proposed: Cornicularia varipes Banks = W. communis (Emerton); Lophocarenum (Mythoplastoides) abruptum Emerton = W. atrotibialis O. P.-Cambridge; Trachynella longidens Holm = W. castanea (Emerton); W. vidua Wunderlich = W. capito (Westring); Heteroprosopotheca Wunderlich = Walckenaeria Blackwall; Kastonia Wunderlich = Microcornicularia Wunderlich; Pseudocornicularia Wunderlich = Microcornicularia Wunderlich. W. karpinskii auct. is not W. karpinskii O. P.-Cambridge, and is renamed W. holmi. Cornicularia selma Chamberlin and Tigellinus mesus Chamberlin are excluded from the genus. Walckenaeria can be defined on the basis of somatic characters, and on the form of the palpal organs, but definition on the basis of the female genitalia has not been possible. The genus now comprises 76 species in N. America, including the following 49 new taxa: W. aenea, W. anceps, W. aprilis, W. arcana, W. arctica, W. aurata, W. bifida, W. blanda, W. carolina, W. clavipalpe, W. columbia, W. crocea, W. discolor, W. dondalei, W. emarginata, W. exigua, W. faceta, W. fallax, W. floridiana, W. fraudatrix, W. fusciceps, W. gertschi, W. helenae, W. holmi, W. iviei, W. latens, W. maesta, W. mexicana, W. microspiralis, W. occidentalis, W. oregona, W. palustris, W. pellax, W. prominens, W. puella, W. pullata, W. reclusa, W. redneri, W. rufula, W. rutilis, W. septentrionalis, W. serrata, W. solivaga, W. subdirecta, W. subpallida, W. subspiralis, W. subvigilax, W. tenella, W. teres. The species are assigned to nine species groups, several of which appear to be endemic to N. America. Descriptions, diagnoses and distribution maps are given for each species.
40233826|A new pirate spider (family Mimetidae) is described as Australomimetus mendax new species from Tasmania, Australia. In this context, all mimetid species currently known from the island have been reviewed and re-illustrated. Five species are recorded and they all belong to the genus Australomimetus Heimer 1986. Re-illustrated here are Australomimetus maculosus (Rainbow 1904), A. tasmaniensis (Hickman 1929) new combination, A. aurioculatus (Hickman 1929) new combination and A. audax (Hickman 1929) new combination. We briefly discuss the phylogenetic relationships of these species and provide distribution maps of their Tasmanian records. Australomimetus mendax is the only species currently endemic to Tasmania. All other species exhibit wide distribution patterns from tropical Queensland to Western Australia. The ranges of A. aurioculatus and A. audax - species originally thought to be Tasmanian endemics - are now extended to include the Australian mainland as well. The cosmopolitan genus Mimetus Hentz 1832 is restricted and excludes all pirate spiders with a Tasmanian distribution.
23610259|We describe the mimetic relationship between the ant-like spider Myrmecotypus iguazu Rubio & Arbino 2009 (Araneae: Corinnidae) and the carpenter ant Camponotus sericeiventris Gurin (Hymenoptera: Formicidae), studied in a subtropical rainforest in Iguaz National Park, Argentina. The morphological adaptations, aspects of coloration, and behavior responsible for the ant-like appearance in M. iguazu (the mimic) provide strong evidence that its model is C. sericeiventris. Both field observations and field and laboratory experiments suggest that this spider is a Batesian mimic.
3705310|Prey capture behavior in the emperor scorpion, Pandinus imperator, is described and an ontogenetic change in prey capture behavior reported. Young scorpions up to 6 cm in length stung nearly all prey items. At 10 cm in length these scorpions stung only large, violently struggling prey items. Adult scorpions never used the sting, dispatching prey with the pedipalps and apparently refusing prey too large to subdue with the pedipalps alone. Prey capture behavior in P. imperator is compared with other species and the possible survival values of sting use is discussed.
4129878| Species placed in the genus Alcimosphenus are examined. Alcimosphenus licinus Simon 1895 is redescribed and validated. Alcimosphenus bifurcatus, A. rufoniger, A. boringuenae, Acusilas rufonigra and A. r. maculata are placed in synonymy. Alcimosphenus rubripleuris Mello-Leito is transferred to Leucauge and redescribed. 
3705197| The male of Bothriurus (Andibothriurus) peruvianus Mello-Leito (Scorpionida: Bothriuridae) is described. A single specimen was collected 2 km E of the type locality in Tarma, Junin, Peru. The taxonomic status of this species, previously known only from the holotype female, is cleared. B. (A.) peruvianus is related to B. (A.) burmeisteri Kraepelin, and possibly also to B. (A.) lampei Werner. 
3704997|A rearing method is reported which provides spiders with a continual supply of food and water. Using this method, spiders have been reared from egg to adult with low mortality. Other rearing methods for spiders are reviewed.
41317225|A new, eyeless species of harvestman, Paranemastoma beroni, collected from the Stoykova Dupka 1 Cave in the Slavyanka Mountains (south-western Bulgaria) is described and illustrated. A character combination of the form of the penis, the form of the pedipalps and absence of scutum armament, distinguish the new species from all other Paranemastoma species. The closest morphological relative, and the only other eyeless example, is the troglobiont P. bureschi (Roewer 1926), which is allopatric (north-western Bulgaria) and clearly differs in the presence of scutum armament and lack of cheliceral apophysis and opening of the cheliceral gland. Characterization and comparison of sculpture in nontroglobiont and troglobiont Paranemastoma species and SEM illustrations are included. A case of cuticular neoteny in troglobionts is also reported.
25067812|The systematic status of the wolf spider genus Sosippus Simon 1888 is reviewed. Males of four species: S. placidus Brady 1972, S. janus Brady 1972, S. michoacanus Brady 1962 and S. agalenoides Banks 1909 are described and fully illustrated for the first time. A cladistic analysis based upon twelve morphological characters resulted in two distinct species-groups within Sosippus. One species-group of the genus occurs from Georgia and Florida in the southeastern United States, westward along the Gulf Coast to south Texas. A second species-group occurs in Arizona and California, and is found in Mexico and Central America as far south as Costa Rica. A new key to the ten species of Sosippus now recognized is presented and updated to include male characters and other features. Collections and observations since earlier studies have provided new information about the social behavior and more widespread distribution of Sosippus janus. Maps have been reconstructed to update the ranges of all species. A preliminary cladistic analysis of the nine species of Sosippus for which both genders are known is presented. Additional critical drawings are provided to illustrate features in the character analysis and facilitate use of the key.
3705235|This study of nomadic riparian ground-surface inhabiting spiders was made at the Los Alamos National Environmental Park, Mew Mexico. Spiders constituted about 10% of this mixed coniferous forest community. They were widely distributed in all samples, as the frequency of occurrence was high (mean for year was 85%). The mean relative densities of spiders, however, was low, ranging from less than 2% in winter to about 15% in summer. There is a seasonal shift of relative densities indicating that this population of carnivores may increase proportionately faster than its prey from winter to summer. Actual numbers of spiders trapped seasonally ranged from 102 individuals at all sites in late winter to over ten times as many (1140) in early summer. This mean number of species per season per site ranged from eight in winter to nearly 22 in early summer. The four sites were not significantly different from each other in total number or mean number of species, number of individuals or relative densities. Only frequencies show any differences and as indicated they are suspect especially in this preliminary study where samples are shown to be inadequate in most cases in numbers and length of time in operation.
3705598|The diversity of sperm transfer behavior shown by water mites (Acari, Hydrachnidia) is among the highest in the Arthropoda. However, sperm transfer has been described in fewer than 10% of water mite genera, all of them being Holarctic or cosmopolitan taxa. Here I describe mating behavior in Physolimnesia australis (Halik 1940), the sole representative of an Australian genus. P. australis is unusual in having larvae that do not parasitize insects, and in including rotifers in its diet. The highly dimorphic P. australis male responds to female presence by taking up an "embrace" posture in which he orients his opisthosoma and legs III toward approaching females. The female is caught in the embrace and her legs IV are secured by the modified tips of the male's legs IV. The male deposits a glutinous mass on the female's back, which she grooms towards her genital opening after being released. This mode of transfer differs from members of the confamilial genus Limnesia Koch 1836 in which males and females do not pair.
25654013|Ladder-webs are built by several orb-web spider species and can be divided into two main groups based on the microhabitat in which they are built, either in open spaces (aerial) or against tree trunks (arboricolous). In Australian ladder-web spiders, Telaprocera, the elongated webs are a highly plastic behavioral response to building in space-limited conditions against tree trunks, while the aerial ladder-webs of Scoloderus are an adaptation for catching moths. However, the relative importance of moth capture in the construction of elongated webs in arboricolous spiders cannot be determined with existing data. We here present observational and experimental data concerning prey capture in the arboricolous spiders T. maudae Harmer & Framenau 2008 and T. joanae Harmer & Framenau 2008. We found that moths make up only a small fraction (< 4%) of the diet of Telaprocera spiders and that the proportions of major prey orders in webs are representative of available prey. Our experiments indicate that these webs do not function well at retaining moths. However, further data are required before more definite conclusions can be drawn regarding whether these webs are more effective at retaining moths than standard orb-webs.
3705084|Two emendations to Stahnke's (1974) "Revision and keys to the higher categories of Vejovidae" are given. First, Stahnke's nomenclatorial decision to use the spelling "Vejovis", rather than the correct original spelling of Vaejovis Koch, is based on an inappropriate article of the Code, and contradicts the ruling relative to this nomenclatorial problem. Thus, Vaejovidae, Vaejovinae, and Vaejovis are the correct spellings for the family, subfamily, and genus, respectively. Taxonomically, the holotype of Physoctonus physurus Mello-Leitao is redescribed, establishing that this supposedly vaejovid taxon is a junior synonym of Rhopalurus debilis (Koch), belonging to the family Buthidae.
3706143| Magnetic heading (direction the spider's ventrum faced) and web inclination (degree of slant from the vertical) in Argiope trifasciata Forskl, a diurnal orb-weaving spider, were studied at a coastal site in southern California for nine weeks in fall 1999. Throughout the study, A. trifasciata largely occupied east-west oriented webs with their venters facing south and southwest. Mean magnetic heading was unaffected by ambient temperature extremes. Inclination levels varied from week to week over an approximately 5 range. However, these changes followed no discernible pattern and were independent both of the sun's decrease in maximum altitude during the course of the study and of magnetic heading. Since the ventrum of A. trifasciata is dark, the consistent southern orientation exhibited by spiders at our study site suggests that they sought to maximize solar radiation in an attempt to gain heat. In addition, the east-west, facing-the-sun orientation of webs at this site places them parallel to the prevailing western breezes, minimizing their exposure to wind disturbance. As for inclination, it is unclear what factors may be influencing the degree of slant in A. trifasciata webs and further study will be needed to ascertain what they might be. 
3705505|Airborne line initiation was observed in spiders of at least 46 genera in 16 araneomorph families. At least three different methods of initiation were observed, two of which have apparently not been described previously. Two other methods of airborne line initiation described in the literature may not occur. In one araneid it was determined that the anterior spinnerets are apparently not involved in producing airborne lines.
3705018| The web construction behavior of newly emerged Uloborus is more complex than heretofore supposed; large numbers of very fine non-radial threads are produced even though the spider moves only in radial directions on the web. This type of web may be universal in recently emerged Uloborus spiderlings, and a very similar web is made by mature males of at least one Uloborus species. /// La construccin de la telaraa por Uloborus recien salidas de la bolsa de huevos es mas compleja de lo que se pensaba; muchos hilos muy finos son puestos en sentidos no-radiales aunque la araa se desplaza unicamente en un sentido radial. Este tipo de telaraa puede ser universal entre las ninfas recien salidas del gnero Uloborus. El macho maduro de por lo menos una especie de Uloborus tambin construye una telaraa similar. 
3705819|The cyphophthalmid genus Troglosiro Juberthie, known only from New Caledonia, is made the type of a monobasic new family Troglosironidae, the plesiomorphic sister group of [Pettalidae + Sironidae]. Five new species, raveni, juberthei, ninqua, tillierorum and platnicki, are described.
3706182|A phylogenetic analysis of the genera of Cyphophthalmi is undertaken by studying 32 morphological characters in 43 species representing all families and most genera. The analysis is complemented with a molecular analysis using 18S rRNA and 28S rRNA sequence data of twelve cyphophthalmid species representing ten genera. The Cyphophthalmi are monophyletic, as are the families Stylocellidae and Pettalidae. However, the families Sironidae, Ogoveidae, and Neogoveidae are not monophyletic. Relationships among families need more data, but molecular characters strongly support the monophyly of Troglosironidae + Neogoveidae. Rooting the cyphophthalmid tree by using sequence data of one Eupnoi, one Dyspnoi, and one Laniatores results in two alternatives, one proposing a sister group relationship of Stylocellidae to the remaining taxa, or alternatively Pettalidae (with Suzukielus?) as sister group of the remaining cyphophthalmids. The position of Troglosiro, Suzukielus, Metasiro, Huitaca, and the epigean "Neogovea" mexasca are re-evaluated and discussed.
3706108| Aulonia bergi (Holmberg 1876) and Aulonia macrops Simon 1897 are considered nomina dubia. Agalenocosa luteonigra (Mello-Leito 1945) new combination (= Aulonia luteonigra Mello-Leito 1945) is illustrated. Glieschiella senex (Mello-Leito 1945) is illustrated and synonymized under Allocosa brasiliensis (Petrunkevitch 1910). /// Aulonia bergi (Holmberg 1876) y Aulonia macrops Simon 1897 se consideran nomina dubia. Agalenocosa luteonigra (Mello-Leito 1945) nueva combinaion (= Aulonia luteonigra Mello-Leito 1945) se ilustra. Glieschiella senex (Mello-Leito 1945) se illustra y sinonimiza bajo Allocosa brasiliensis (Petrunkevitch 1910). 
41758963|Habitat structure is of great importance for the distribution and abundance of various organisms. Spiders are especially sensitive to structural features of their environment. Although spiders are influenced by habitat structure, it remains unclear whether spiders respond to architecture, to differences in prey availability associated with different architectures, or both. Here, we investigated the effects of shrub architecture and prey availability and their interactions on a spider community in a shrub-steppe environment in northern Utah, USA. Big sagebrush shrubs, matched by size, were randomly assigned to six experimental treatments: two levels of prey attractant (shrubs were either baited or not baited) and three levels of foliage density (low, natural/control, or high). We found that spider abundance and species richness were affected by both prey availability and shrub architecture, while variation in spider species diversity (Shannon-Wiener index) was governed by changes in shrub architecture. Spider species and family compositions were also associated with changes in shrub architecture, although guild composition was not. We discuss the implications and limitations of these findings and present suggestions for future research.
3705539|Morphometric and nest position variables were used to examine the effects of spider growth and seasonality on webs and websites of the desert widow spider, Latrodectus revivensis Shulov (Theridiidae) in the Negev desert of Israel. The form of the web was similar over the full range of spider body sizes. All morphometric variables had strong positive correlations with spider size: larger spiders occupied larger nests in larger shrubs. However, nest characteristics were more highly correlated with spider size than were website characteristics. When the effect of spider size was removed by regression, more than 75% of the remaining variance consisted of correlated variation in three groups of variables relating to (1) website characteristics (48%), (2) nest characteristics (18%) and (3) capture web placement (12%). Most nest and website variables showed effects of seasonality that were independent of spider size, and may be related to the thermal regime in the nest. The results indicate that the relative quality of potential websites changes seasonally and with spider growth. We suggest that the costs of relocating a web outweigh the advantages of reaching a new website, with the result that spiders remain for some time in websites which have become less suitable.
3705590|The following new synonymies are found among the scorpions of the Old World: Buthoscorpio Werner 1936 = Pocockius Francke 1985, NEW SYNONYMY; Androctonus (Leiurus) quinquestriatus Ehrenberg 1828 = Androctonus (Liurus) quinquestriatus aculeatus Ehrenberg 1831, NEW SYNONYMY; Euscorpius mingrelicus gamma (Caporiacco 1950) (in part), NEW COMBINATION = Euscorpius mingrelicus caprai Bonacina 1980, NEW SYNONYMY. The following new homonymies are published: Buthus (Hottentotta) hebraeus Werner 1935, NEW HOMONYMY; Buthus acutecarinatus judaicus Birula 1905, NEW HOMONYMY; Euscorpius germanus polytrichus Hadzi 1929, NEW HOMONYMY; Euscorpius germanus oligotrichus Hadzi 1929, NEW HOMONYMY; Euscorpius carpathicus oligotrichus Hadzi 1929, NEW HOMONYMY; Scorpio maurus subtypicus Birula 1910, NEW HOMONYMY. The following new replacement names are introduced to replace junior homonyms: Androctonus amoreuxii levyi Fet, NOMEN NOVUM = Buthus (Hottentotta) hebraeus Werner 1935, NEW SYNONYMY; Lychas marmoreus lucienkochi Fet, NOMEN NOVUM = Lychas marmoreus obscurus Kraepelin 1916, NEW SYNONYMY; Uroplectes fischeri caporiaccoi Fet, NOMEN NOVUM = Uroplectes fischeri intermedius Caporiacco 1941, NEW SYNONYMY; Hadogenes trichiurus werneri Fet, NOMEN NOVUM = Hadogenes trichiurus paucidens Werner 1939, NEW SYNONYMY; Scorpio maurus birulai Fet, NOMEN NOVUM = Scorpio maurus subtypicus Birula 1910, NEW SYNONYMY. Type species are designated for Pilumnus C.L. Koch 1837, Repucha as proposed by Francke (1985), and two subgenera of Pandinus Thorell as proposed by Vachon (1974). An incorrect original spelling Trichobuthus grubleri Vachon 1941 is corrected to T. guebleri (a junior synonym of Buthiscus bicalcaratus Birula 1905). The correct date of the description for Pectinibuthus Fet is 1984, but not 1987. The name Euscorpius carpathicus mesotrichus Hadzi 1929 is a junior homonym and cannot be used.
41804574|Accurate characterization of predator-prey linkages in agroecosystems is important prior to the implementation of conservation biological programs. The Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Hemiptera: Aphididae), is a significant pest of wheat and barley in the United States. This research utilized molecular gut-content analysis as a minimally disruptive technique to characterize the trophic connectivity between two spider species, Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz 1850 and Pardosa sternalis (Thorell 1877), and D. noxia. We describe the development of species-specific primers that amplify a 227 bp fragment of D. noxia COI mtDNA to identify the frequency of prdation under varying aphid densities and developmental stages of winter wheat. We tested the hypotheses that prdation rates on D. noxia would be highest for both spider species at the greatest aphid infestation level in the aphid-resistant wheat cultivar plots and that densities of T. laboriosa would be highest at the highest aphid infestation level in the aphid-resistant cultivars. Despite short detection periods of prey DNA in the laboratory, 32% and 48% of field-collected T. laboriosa and P. sternalis spiders screened positive for D. noxia DNA, respectively. T. laboriosa densities were highest at the highest aphid infestation level. Aphidresistant wheat cultivars did not impact prdation rates or densities. Additionally, P. sternalis prdation on D. noxia increased with increasing aphid infestation levels. Given the high predation rates on D. noxia and their association with increased aphid densities, both spider species represent important natural enemies within wheat agroecosystems, and further research is required to quantify their impact on aphid populations.
3706136|Most adult golden orb weavers (Nephila clavipes) have kleptoparasites of the genus Argyrodes in their webs. The kleptoparasitic load correlates positively with web size. Clustered (interconnected) webs have a more predictable number of kleptoparasites than do solitary webs, but there is no difference in the mean number of kleptoparasites between the two. From the view of the kleptoparasite, host webs are habitat patches or islands. Isolated webs show characteristics of small patches, where web size is a poor indicator of kleptoparasite number and variation is high. The distribution of kleptoparasites in clustered webs, on the other hand, seems to fit the "ideal free distribution" where web size nearly entirely predicts kleptoparasitic load. Thus clustered webs, as a habitat patch, are more than merely the combination of their parts. The predictability of kleptoparasite load in clustered webs may be a function of the stability (longevity) of those habitat patches, and ease of colonization, as neighboring webs act as sources.
23070799|A large population of Sphodros rufipes (Latreille 1829) was discovered in a municipal park in Memphis, Tennessee. We examined potential stem diameter preference, frequency of web attachment to available tree species and the spatial distribution patterns of spiders and potential attachment structures. A wide range of structure diameters were utilized for web attachment. The association of pursewebs to tree taxa was independent of the frequency of tree taxa occurrence. The spacing of vegetation stems and trunks was approximately random, but spiders exhibited a nonrandom, aggregated distribution, which was more pronounced in subadults than adults. The factors influencing S. rufipes to occur in aggregations cannot be explained by the spatial proximity of potential attachment structures in the forest.
23048782|Mesobuthus karshius new species from the southern region of Xinjiang, China, is described. Nine species and subspecies of the genus Mesobuthus Vachon 1950 from China are recorded, and diagnoses of M. eupeus mongolicus (Birula 1911), M. eupeus thersites (C.L. Koch 1839) and M. martensii martensii (Karsch 1879) are provided. In addition, M. caucasicus przewalskii (Birula 1897), M. caucasicus intermedius (Birula 1897), M. eupeus mongolicus (Birula 1911), M. karshius sp. nov. and M. martensii martensii (Karsch 1879) are illustrated, and a key to the Chinese Mesobuthus is also provided.
3705120|A study was made of visual epigamic displays in representative species of North American jumping spiders, with a special emphasis on determining the value of using such displays in systematics. Several presumed homologies in courtship behavior were described which largely support the most recent subfamilial arrangement on morphology. Courtship was found to be of more use in some generic and specific level problems, especially with closely related sympatric species. Agonistic displays were found to be of less use in systematics than courtship, because of the similar ways in which males engage in combat display, even in distantly related genera.
3705526| Selenops cocheleti Simon 1880 (Selenopidae, Araneae) have their eight eyes arranged in two rows, the first formed by six eyes and the second row by only two. The first row of eyes is formed by two anterior lateral (ALE), two posterior median (PME) and two anterior median eyes (AME). Two posterior lateral eyes (PLE) point backwards and form the second row of eyes. This study used the histological staining technique of Hematoxylin-Eosin and Mallory-Azan-Heindenhain. The specimens were fixed with Bouin, using n-Butyl alcohol as an intermediary for embedding in Paraplast. Frontal, transversal and sagittal sections (6-10 m) were made. The cornea and lens of all the eyes are cuticular and laminar. Behind the lens there is a layer of cone cells with projections toward the lens. The direct eyes have two cellular types at the rhabdoma. They support the pigmented cells and the sensitive cells of the retina. In the indirect eyes three cellular types are found: sensitive cells of the retina, pigmented support cells and unpigmented support cells. These eyes have a tapetum (layer which reflects the light) below the pigmented layer of the ocular cup. /// Selenops cocheleti Simon 1880 (Selenopidae, Araneae) posee sus ocho ojos dispuestos en dos filas, la primera formada por seis ojos y la segunda por slo dos. La fila anterior de ojos est constituda por dos ojos laterales anteriores (OLA), dos medios posteriores (OMP) y dos medios anteriores (OMA). Los ojos laterales posteriores (OLP) se dirigen hacia atrs y forman la segunda fila de ojos. Los OMA son ojos principales y los restantes secundarios. Para este estudio se utilizaron tcnicas histomorfolgicas con la coloracin de Hematoxilina-Eosina y Mallory-Azan-Heidenhain. Los ejemplares fueron fijados con Bouin utilizando como intermediario alcohol n-Butlico para su inclusin en Paraplast. Se realizaron cortes a 6-10 m, en seccin frontal, transversal y sagital. La crnea y la lente de todos los ojos son cuticular y laminar; detrs de la lente se extiende una capa uniestratificada de clulas cono con proyecciones hacia la lente. Los ojos principales tienen dos tipos celulares en el rabdoma; las clulas de soporte pigmentadas y las clulas sensoriales de la retina. En los ojos secundarios se reconocieron tres tipos celulares; las clulas de la retina, las clulas de soporte pigmentadas y las de soporte no pigmentadas. En stos ltimos se encuentra tambin un tapete (capa que refleja la luz) delante de la capa pigmentada de la copa ocular. 
3705072| Feeding by Coelotes atropos decreases sharply at and below 6C compared to that at 8C and 10C. As temperature decreases, each individual requires less energy in terms of calories. No growth occurred below 8C, suggesting a developmental zero between 6 and 8C. 
3705314|In vitro radiotracer studies using tritiated leucine revealed that C. sculpturatus embryos accumulated leucine by a process that is characterized by a rate constant of approximately 0.02 min
3705751| Six new species of Diplocentrus Peters, 1862 (D. lucidus and D. ornatus from Belize, D. coddingtoni, D. lourencoi, and D. santiagoi from Honduras, and D. steeleae from Mxico) are described. Notes clarifying the composition and distribution of this genus are also given. 
3705850|In the field, the bowl and doily spider, Frontinella pyramitela (Araneae, Linyphiidae), deposits its eggs in a loosely-woven silk cocoon on or close to the soil. Experimental laboratory studies indicate that gravid females select that type of oviposition site in response to gravitation, soil moisture or atmospheric humidity, and the gross structure of the microhabitat. Under experimental conditions, rates of water loss from F. pyramitela egg cocoons are approximately double the rates from cocoons constructed by three species (Achaearanea tepidariorum, Argyrodes trigonum, and Uloborus glomosus) that oviposit in aerial webs well above the ground. We conclude that desiccation of developing eggs has been an important natural selective force shaping the selection of oviposition sites by bowl and doily spiders.
25434292|The abundance, species richness, and assemblage structure of arboreal Oonopidae of Afrotropical rainforests and savannahs was investigated. Canopy-dwelling spiders were collected by insecticide knockdown fogging at 11 rainforest and three savannah sites in West, Central, and East Africa. In two lowland rainforests (Luki, DR Congo, and Kakum, Ghana) and two savannahs (Faro, Cameroon, and Mkomazi, Tanzania) Oonopidae were the second most abundant spider family, comprising up to 22% of the arboreal arachnofauna. In total, 51 species and 11 genera of Oonopidae were recorded from the 14 study sites. Kakum was the most species- and genus-rich site, with 11 species and 5 genera recorded. The arboreal oonopid assemblages were almost invariably found to be dominated by the widely-distributed genera Orchestina Simon and Opopaea Simon, in terms of both abundance and species richness. Orchestina in particular can be highly abundant and can comprise more than 90% of arboreal oonopids in rainforests as well as in savannahs. Species accumulation curves and six nonparametric estimators of total species richness (Chao 1, Chao 2, ACE, first- and second-order jackknife, and bootstrap) were calculated for Luki, Kakum, and Faro to evaluate the level of inventory completeness. In Kakum and Faro the species accumulation curve respectively closely approached and reached a stable asymptote. The selected nonparametric estimators were found to lack predictive power when applied to the Faro data set and appeared to behave similarly poorly on the Kakum sample set.
25434291|Only two specimens of spiders have been described from Jurassic strata, so the recovery of some 400 new specimens from rocks of middle Jurassic age from China signals a dramatic increase in information on fossil spiders of this period. Here, new spiders belonging to the superfamily Palpimanoidea sensu Forster & Platnick 1984, from the locality of Daohugou, Inner Mongolia, are described. Patarchaea muralis n. gen., n. sp. is a true archaeid, represented by both an adult male and female. Sinaranea metaxyostraca n. gen., n. sp., represented by an adult male and juveniles, is a palpimanoid similar to Palpimanidae and Huttoniidae, but is not placed in a modern family.
3705835| Spiders of 14 families, 34 genera, and at least 36 species were collected by formalin extraction from sub-litter habitats of the forest floor, Moosehorn National Wildlife Refuge, Washington County, Maine, in 1987. Species per family ranged from 1 to 7; the Erigonidae had the richest representation with 19.4% of all species. Most species (64.0%) were represented by sexually mature spiders; the ratio of female to male spiders was 3.2:1. Species of web-spinning spiders outnumbered species of hunting spiders 2 to 1. Numbers of spiders/0.25 m
3705497|Specific locality records are presented to define the distributions of the scorpions Centruroides vittatus (Say) and C. hentzi (Banks) in North America. The former occurs in the Central Plains as far north as Thayer County, Nebraska; the Rio Grande and Sangre de Cristo Mountains form the western distributional boundary, and the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers essentially do likewise on the east. Centruroides vittatus occurs just across the latter watercourses in Holt County, Missouri, and Monroe and Randolph counties, Illinois, range extensions that probably can be attributed to rafting or natural alterations in the rivers' courses. Other occurrences east of the Mississippi River, in northern Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Louisiana, Mississippi and North Carolina, are associated with cities and are mostly far outside what we consider the natural range; such records are regarded as human introductions. One of these apparently represents a viable reproducing population in Rutherford County, Tennessee. Likewise, records far west of the Rio Grande, in Arizona and California, are interpreted as introductions. Centruroides vittatus traverses the Rio Grande south of Texas and occurs in Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and Tamaulipas, Mexico. Centruroides hentzi, previously known only from Florida in the United States, occurs in Mobile and Baldwin counties, Alabama, and in the southern tier of counties in Georgia. Occurrences of C. hentzi in Durham, Carteret, and Brunswick counties, North Carolina, Charleston County, South Carolina, and Harris and Muscogee counties, Georgia, are considered to represent accidental human importations, although it is also possible that the more proximal ones are peripheral isolates.
3706276| The occurrence of abdominal urticating hair types throughout juvenile development is studied in five Uruguayan theraphosid species of different genera. Adults of three of these species have urticating hairs of Types III and IV while the other two species have Types III and I. Considering spider size as an estimator of development, Type I or IV occurred early, in small juveniles, while Type III hairs always occurred after the other types during development. The homology of urticating hairs and their use in phylogenetic studies of Theraphosinae is discussed. Sexual dimorphism in the occurrence of urticating hair types is analyzed and a hypothetical explanation is proposed. /// La presencia de pelos urticantes abdominales a travs del desarrollo es estudiada en juveniles de cinco especies de terafsidas uruguayas de gneros diferentes. Los adultos de 3 de estas especies presentan pelos urticantes tipo III y IV mientras que las otras dos presentan los tipos III y I. Considerando el tamao como indicador del desarrollo los tipos I o IV aparecen tempranamente mientras que los pelos tipo III ocurren siempre despus que los otros tipos, durante el desarrollo. Se discute la homologa de los pelos urticantes y su uso en la filogenia de Theraphosinae. Se propone una explicacin para el dimorfismo sexual encontrado en estos pelos para algunas especies de terafsidas. 
3705724|The bowl and doily spider, Frontinella pyramitela (Araneae, Linyphiidae), receives information about its world primarily through its senses of touch (including vibrations) and taste. We report here that when a male touches the carcass of a conspecific mounted on the web of an adult female, the male receives information about the sex of the carcass. Moreover, the information is encoded in chemical form on the cuticles of both sexes of adult spiders. Tarsal contact with the carcass of a male elicits many abdomen flexions but few foreleg waves from an assay male. In contrast, tarsal contact with the carcass of a female elicits far fewer abdomen flexions but many foreleg waves. Both intersexual differences are lost when the carcass has been washed in solvent.
3705527|A new species of Theraphosidae, Crypsidromus gutzkei, is described (from the male only) from northern Belize. Unique coloration in combination with pedipalps of intermediate length distinguishes C. gutzkei from all congeners. Character states proposed as diagnostic for males of Crypsidromus Ausserer 1871 and Metriopelma Becker 1878 are combined in the male of this new species, supporting the maintenance of Metriopelma in the synonymy of Crypsidromus.
24365300|Many species roost communally but the proximate causes and ultimate functions of this widespread behavior remain poorly understood. We studied the communal roosts of two undescribed species of harvestmen in the genus Prionostemma Pocock 1903 at a Caribbean rainforest site in southeastern Nicaragua. The species are quite similar in gross morphology but differ in body coloration, male genitalia, and roosting behavior. One species roosts primarily on spiny palms while the other species, which is darker in coloration, roosts inside buttress root cavities. In a mark-recapture study, the cavity-roosting species had higher levels of individual site fidelity than found previously in the spiny palm-roosting species, perhaps because suitable cavities are scarcer than spiny palms. The tree cavity aggregations were strongly male-biased, which our review of the literature suggests is unusual for harvestman roosts. The overall sex ratio of the spiny palm aggregations was 1:1, but some roost sites were strongly male biased while others were strongly female biased. Removing all harvestmen from 10 spiny palm roost sites shifted the overall sex ratio toward males on subsequent days, but the sites with skewed sex ratios remained skewed in the same directions despite complete turnover in roost membership. These results are discussed in relation to mechanisms of roost formation and possible sex differences in vagility, microhabitat preferences and sensitivity to disturbance. Both species also occur at La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica but neither forms roosting aggregations in spiny palms or tree cavities there. A possible explanation for the geographic variation is that roosting patterns change over time through cultural drift.
20617605|A simple technique is presented for reducing the fluorescence of living scorpions by prolonged exposure to UV light. Scorpion's fluorescence peak can be eliminated by a 1-mo exposure to low intensity UV light. Although the fluorescence peak returns within 1 wk after removal from UV light exposure, the magnitude remains reduced. This technique potentially opens up new options for testing a variety of hypotheses about possible functions of scorpion fluorescence including potential effects on cuticle strength, visual responses, predation, cannibalism, and mating.
25067897|Despite a wealth of research on the benefits of mate choice, empirical evidence for the costs of courtship is scarce. Understanding the interplay between the costs and benefits of reproductive behaviors is critical to our understanding of sexual selection. I present a study designed to explore the potential reproductive benefits of male choosiness for large mates as well as the costs of courtship in the jumping spider Phidippus clarus (Keyserling 1885). My findings suggest that a positive relationship between female tibia length and the number of emerging spiderlings may underlie male choice for large females. However, this benefit may be mitigated by the longevity costs of courtship. Further investigation of the potential trade-offs between the benefits of male preferences for large females and the costs of courtship in this species is required.
4129836|Two species of wolf spider, Hogna helluo (Walckenaer 1837) and Pardosa milvina Hentz 1844 dominate the predatory community on the soil surface of agroecosystems in eastern North America. Although as adults they are very different in size, differences in phenology ensure that they overlap in size at various times during the year. In a laboratory experiment, we explored the propensity of each species to attack and kill the other wolf spider species (intraguild predation), conspecifics (cannibalism) or crickets (ordinary predation). Both spiders attacked and killed a broader size range of crickets more quickly than they approached other spiders. We found no differences in Hogna foraging on conspecifics or Pardosa, but Pardosa attacked and killed Hogna more readily than conspecifics. Because Hogna was so slow in attacking other spiders, their impact as an intraguild predator may be quite small, especially if their approach to crickets is an indication of their predatory tendencies with insects. On the other hand, Pardosa attacked and killed small Hogna as readily as crickets, which suggests they may have an influence on Hogna populations if Hogna young emerge coincident with large juvenile or adult Pardosa.
3705320|Heteronebo franckei, new species, is described from Jamaica and new Jamaican locality records are reported for Heteronebo jamaicae portlandensis Francke and Heteronebo jamaicae occidentalis Francke.
3705119| A new genus, Epichernes Muchmore, and species, E. aztecus Hentschel, are described from the Distrito Federal, Mxico. All specimens have been found on the bodies of the volcano mouse, Neotomodon alstoni alstoni Merriam. 
24365289|Phrynus longipes (Pocock 1894) is a top predator among arboreal invertebrates in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico, but many aspects of its ecology remain poorly understood. We sampled four of the most abundant tree species in the Luquillo Mountains during the dry and wet seasons of 2008 to evaluate microhabitat preferences of this species. In the dry season, P. longipes occurred significantly less frequently on a palm, Prestoea acuminata var. montana (Arecaceae), than the other tree species. Carapace length and the diameter of the tree on which an individual was found were positively correlated, suggesting competition for substrates. Microhabitat selection shifted in the wet season. Individuals occurred as frequently on P. acuminata as on any other species. The seasonal shift in substrate use could result from altered distribution or abundance of prey, an ontogenetic shift in substrate preference or greater competition arising from an increased abundance of P. longipes.
23048786|Spiders are effectively blind with respect to the lines in their webs, and they commonly use exploratory leg movements to find lines, just as a blind man finds objects using a cane. Nevertheless, a mature female Leucauge mariana (Keyserling 1881), which spins a relatively open, sparsely-meshed hub and whose legs I and II hold widely-spaced radii rather than dense hub lines, turns precisely and rapidly when prey strike her orb. She can turn > 90, finding and grasping new lines with all her legs, in as little as 0.1 s and can reach a prey several body lengths away in as little as 0.23 s after impact. The hub design and resting postures of the spider's legs allow her to sense where the prey strikes the web, generate the force necessary to turn her body rapidly, and find lines to grasp. The spider may move most (if not all) of her legs, without obtaining further guidance information once the leg has begun to move until it nears the site where it will grasp a line. The order in which legs are moved is relatively consistent, and each tarsus moves to a site where lines are relatively abundant; some then make small, quick searching movements to find and grasp lines there. When radial lines were experimentally cut near the hub in a sector in which a prey was subsequently introduced, legs I and II first made small searching movements, and then executed much larger searching movements. The rapid leg movements directed toward specific areas where lines are abundant, and the small searching movements employed at these sites suggest that the spider modifies her behavior when she is at the hub of an orb.
3705160|Two new species are described: Lygromma tuxtla from Mexico and L. wygodzinskyi from Colombia; the former species extends the known northern limit of the genus from Costa Rica to Chiapas.
3705579|This study investigated the relationship between male size and reproductive success in Nephila clavipes, a neotropical orb-weaving spider. Gross and palpal size variation were examined in relation to copulatory behavior. sperm transfer/uptake, and utilization by the female. The effect of conductor breakage was also evaluated by assessing the timing of its occurrence and its influence on sperm transfer. There was less variation in palp size of male N. clavipes than in other aspects of male morphology. Gross male body size correlated most highly with how much sperm was produced, transferred to, and stored by the female. Size of the male was not related, however, to the percentage of sperm actually transferred. The number of sperm retained by the female was influenced by the time of mating, but not by copulatory behavior. Approximately twice as many sperm were found in the palps of virgin males as were found in combined totals from mated pairs. This suggests that a substantial percentage of sperm transferred by the male is not stored by the female. None of the variables analyzed in this study greatly influenced the percentage of eggs eventually hatching. Conductor breakage seriously interfered with sperm transfer but occurred less often than expected and did not appear to result from copulatory activity.
3705321|Philoponella republicana (Araneae, Uloboridae) is a communal orb-weaving spider. Colonies of this spider were found more frequently in interface forest than in high forest or mountain savannah forest. This does not appear to be due to differences in insect abundance among forest types, but is correlated with greater complexity of the understory in the interface forest. This may be due to the need for supports for colony attachment lines. Within the interface forest, the location of colonies is correlated with local insect abundance. When flying insects are excluded from colonies, individual spiders can respond by increasing the distance between orbs in the colony, and colonies can respond by abandoning the site and moving to a new location.
3705050|We observed the sequences of behaviors shown during encounters between individuals in conspecifically and heterospecifically grouped adult female Lycosa punctulata, L. rabida, and L. helluo. Significant linkages within pairs of successive acts between individuals were revealed, indicating that some behaviors have communicatory effects. There were no major differences among the three species in the forms of behaviors shown, nor in the sequences of these behaviors, the sequences being highly variable. Some of the behaviors, and perhaps their sequence variability, probably inhibit approach and/or attack, thus resulting in spacing of the individuals. Cannibalism was infrequent (< 1%) within conspecific as well as heterospecific groups. Food deprivation did not increase cannibalism within conspecific groups of post-mating age females, suggesting either that hunger does not increase the level of aggressivity among conspecific females of this physiological class, or that hunger lowers their fighting potential and thereby increases their avoidance tendency.
3704993|The chernetid genera Hesperochernes Chamberlin and Dinocheirus Chamberlin are redefined in the light of recent knowledge and are compared with Chernes Menge, type genus of the family Chernetidae. Redescriptions of the type species Hesperochernes laurae Chamberlin and Dinocheirus tenoch Chamberlin and three new combinations, Hesperochernes mirabilis (Banks), Hesperochernes occidentalis (Hoff and Bolsterli) and Dinocheirus bouvieri (Vachon), are included.
4129851|When the males of the Namib Desert spider Leucorchestris arenicola (Araneae, Sparassidae) reach the adult stage they undertake long nocturnal searches for females. From these searches they return to their home burrow often in a straight line only retracing a fraction of their outward path if at all. Distances of 40 m and 13 m are conservative estimates of the mean round trip length and maximum distance from the burrow. Returning to the starting point of a round trip of such length is theoretically only possible if the navigator uses external cues for positional reference. The possible involvement of a range of external cues in the male L. arenicola was investigated. The direction of gravity, the sun, polarized sunlight, olfaction, constant wind direction and vibrational beacons are ruled out or deemed unlikely to be involved in the spiders' homing.
23610249|We examined a group of seven morphologically similar species of the genus Pardosa to determine the reliability of morphological identification characters independently of additional specimen data, such as habitat and geography. Of the seven, four shared diagnostic character states with other species. These four species have areas of both sympatric and allopatric distribution. Specimens collected from allopatric areas, thus expected to contain only one species, were identified using only the morphology of the specimens, keeping the locality data hidden, and the reliability of the identifications was assessed. Identifications of the allopatric specimens resulted in a 32% success rate, indicating that the sole use of morphological characters did not work well for identification in this group. Reliance on geographical data to direct an identification would likely result in identification errors in areas of sympatry. As a result we conclude Pardosa tristis (Thorell 1877), P. prosaica Chamberlin and Ivie 1947 and P. dromaea (Thorell 1877), are new synonyms of Pardosa groenlandica (Thorell 1872).
3705279|Five new species of jumping spiders from California are described, and named as follows: Pellenes (Habronattus) ustulatus, n. sp., Pellenes (Habronattus) icenoglei, n. sp., Pellenes (Habronattus) kawini, n. sp., Pellenes (Habronattus) kubai, n. sp., and Pellenes (Habronattus) schlingeri, n. sp.
3705624|The phenology, abundance, and habitat preferences of Pardosa ramulosa (McCook) in California rice fields were studied. Analysis of pitfall and floating sticky-trap samples showed that this spider apparently had one generation per year and overwintered in the immature stage. The population on the levees peaked in June and preceded the buildup in the paddies. Colonization of the paddies was possible after emergent vegetation was present. Before this P. ramulosa was observed being blown over the water surface. This may have contributed to its ability to disperse within the rice agroecosystem. In the paddies, P. ramulosa was associated with patches of aquatic broadleaf weeds where potential prey, including occasional pest species, was most abundant. P. ramulosa possesses many attributes thought to be desirable for a natural enemy in an annual agroecosystem, and may be an important predator of some pest species in rice.
3705045|The limb-beating sampling method was evaluated with regard to its seasonal efficiency and the effects of the time of day of sampling. The efficiency of limb-beating was generally high throughout the season with averages of 88%, 90%, and 85% for the Salticidae, web-builder (Theridiidae and Dictynidae), and total spiders, respectively. The overall seasonal efficiency of limb-beating for the Thomisidae (includes Philodromidae) was lower (79%) due to the inefficiency in sampling early instar Philodromus sp. spiderlings during one sampling date. There were no significant differences (p > 0.05) due to time of day of sampling on population estimates obtained for the Salticidae, Thomisidae, web-builders, and total spiders during normal sampling hours of 9:00-18:00. On one of two sampling dates, more nocturnally active clubionids were collected at 3:00 than most other sample periods.
23048797|We counted and measured Sphodros rufipes (Latreille 1829) pursewebs in two survey plots on Tuckernuck Island, Massachusetts. Our objectives were to quantify web density, record physical web characteristics and determine the main components of S. rufipes' diet. We counted 479 webs in the two plots and report web densities between 0.058 and 0.18 webs/m2, denser than previously reported populations. Webs were not distributed evenly, and densities ranged from 0 to 0.38 webs/m2. Aggregation indices suggest that webs are aggregated on a landscape level, but are more evenly distributed at a local level. Contrary to most previously published literature on S. rufipes, we noted the predominance of the grass-like sedge, Carex pensylvanica, rather than trees, as a web support. Coleopterans and isopods made up 79 percent of the prey parts collected from 56 pursewebs.
23610294|Brachistosternus Pocock 1893 is the most diverse genus of the scorpion family Bothriuridae. Only four species of the genus have been cytogenetically analyzed so far. We report herein the cytogenetic analysis of Brachistosternus alienus Lnnberg 1898 from Comallo (Ro Negro province, Argentina). This species is widely distributed in the Monte phytogeographic province, located in central and northern Argentine Patagonia. Meiotic cells of B. alienus from Comallo show 23 homomorphic achiasmatic bivalents. The karyotype of this species contains scarce AT-rich regions that may be associated with the heterochromatin of centromeric regions. Giacomozzi (1977) reports n = 14 for B. alienus from Chubut province. Unfortunately, it is not presently possible to determine if those specimens correspond to B. alienus or to a sympatric species, Brachistosternus angustimanus Ojanguren-Affilastro & Roig-Alsina 2001. These different chromosome numbers of the two populations analyzed may reflect the occurrence of a chromosomal polytypism in B. alienus, or they may characterize different species.
24717310|A new species of Paratropididae is described, Paratropis elicioi n. sp., representing the first record of the family Paratropididae from Ecuador. A key to the genera of the subfamily Paratropidinae is provided.
23048787|Predaceous arthropods such as spiders are often adapted to hunting sites where their hunting success is greatest. We investigated the responses of two spiders to phytochemical cues that they potentially experience while hunting on leaves or flowers, and how these cues could influence their decisions where to forage. We compared the behavior of two sit-and-wait predators, Pisaura mirabilis and Misumena vatia, which hunt predominantly in the vegetation or on flowers, respectively. In choice tests, P. mirabilis frequently preferred leaves and leaf extracts to flowers and floral extracts and avoided substrates treated with the common floral scents -caryophyllene and nerolidol (sesquiterpenes) in natural concentrations. In contrast, M. vatia did not show any preferences for any of the substrates and treatments offered. The lack of responses by M. vatia contrasts with earlier studies on another crab spider species (Thomisus spectabilis) that used phytochemical cues as a guide to rewarding flowers. The avoidance of many flowers, their extracts, and the floral scent compounds by P. mirabilis suggests that these cues may prevent the visitation by this and other generalised predators that potentially decrease the pollination success of a plant.
3705396|Three populations of the neotropical theridiid Anelosimus eximius were studied, one in the lowlands were the year shows distinct seasonal cycles, a second in the intermediate uplands, and a third in the mountains where seasonal changes in climate are less pronounced. Colonies in the lowlands showed a large monthly variation in egg production, presence of immature spiderlings and colony biomass. Colonies in the mountains showed less variation. In all sites the sex ratios were variable but were always skewed in favor of females. The sex ratio bias was independent of seasonal factors. It was presumably also independent of other environmental factors, with the exception of predation, which apparently was suffered more by females.
3705754|Stridulating male jumping spiders in the Habronattus agilis species group have a file on the back of the cephalothorax and stout, curved setae on the front of the abdomen. Compared to non-stridulating Habronattus speces, stridulators have modified sclerites around the pedicel, and much more massive muscles running from the lorum to the dorsal carapace apodeme and from the side of the pedicel to the epigastric plate. Sound mostly below 3500 Hz is produced during courtship when the abdomen is vibrated up and down against the back of the carapace. When most of the scraper setae are ablated, the sound is diminished. Stridulation may have evolved from the common salticid behavior of abdomen twitching.
3706202|Kimula cokendolpheri new species is described from the Central Range of the Dominican Republic, West Indies. It is the first non-fossil species of this genus recorded from Hispaniola.
24717270|Cryptachaea Archer 1946 currently contains 75 species. The genus is considered related to Achaearanea Strand 1929, Hentziectypus Archer 1946, and Parasteatoda Archer 1946 but differs from them in having a male palp with a short to medium embolus, which is not articulated and not supported on the back of the cymbium; the base is fused to the median apophysis, located in the hood of the cymbium. The Cryptachaea epigynum has uncoiled ducts leading to a pair of simple subcircular spermathecae. Twelve new species of Cryptachaea are here newly described from South America, seven from Brazil: Cryptachaea cidae new species from the state of Rio Grande do Sul; C. alleluia new species from Minas Gerais and Paran; C. spectabilis new species from Paran; C. divisor new species from the states of Amazonas, Acre, Rio de Janeiro, and Paran; C. floresta new species from Amazonas; C. ericae new species and C. propinqua new species both from the state of Rio Grande do Sul. Cryptachaea catita new species occurs in Brazil and Argentina. Two new species are from Peru (C. tambopata new species and C. paquisha new species) and two are from Bolivia (C. benivia new species and C. lavia new species).
3706043| The nominal genus Bosqia Canals 1933 is determined to be junior subjective synonym of Pachyloides Holmberg 1878. This results in the new combination Pachyloides tucumanus (Canals 1933) for the only species hitherto assigned to Bosqia, and in a secondary homonymy with Pachyloides tucumanus Canals 1943. For the latter, the new name Pachyloides yungarum is proposed. The article provides a redescription of Pachyloides tucumanus (Canals 1933) new combination, including the male external and genital morphology (previously unknown). New records of the species are also reported. /// Se determina la sinonimia del gnero nominal Bosqia Canals 1933 bajo Pachyloides Holmberg 1878. Este cambio resulta en la nueva combinacin Pachyloides tucumanus (Canals 1933) para la nica especie hasta ahora incluida en Bosqia, as como en la homonimia secundaria con Pachyloides tucumanus Canals 1943; para esta ltima especie se propone el nombre nuevo Pachyloides yungarum. El artculo presenta una redescripcin de Pachyloides tucumanus (Canals 1933), comb. n., incluyendo la morfologa externa y genital del macho, hasta ahora desconocido. Se proporcionan nuevos registros de la especie. 
4129852|The prey-capture behavior of the juveniles of Evarcha culicivora, an East African mosquito-eating jumping spider, was investigated in the laboratory using living prey and using dead, motion-less lures made from two mosquito species, Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto and Culex quinquefasciatus. Having tested individuals of E. culicivora that had no prior experience with mosquitoes (rearing diet: only chaoborid and chironomid midges), our findings imply that the small, but not the large, individuals of E. culicivora have an innate predisposition to adopt Anopheles-specific prey-capture behavior. Findings from lure tests implicate posture as a primary cue by which the small juveniles of E. culicivora identify Anopheles. Each individual of E. culicivora was presented with lures, that were either in the posture typical of Anopheles or in the posture typical of Culex. Small, but not large, juveniles of E. culicivora often responded to Anopheles mounted in the Anopheles posture and Culex mounted in the Anopheles posture by taking an indirect route or a detour to the prey which enabled the salticid to approach the lure from behind. However, detours were not routine for small or for large individuals of E. culicivora when the lure, whether made from Anopheles or Culex, was in the Culex posture. When tested with live mosquitoes, small juveniles of E. culicivora were more effective at capturing Anopheles than Culex. Large juveniles were more effective than small E. culicivora juveniles at capturing Culex, but large and small juveniles had similar success at capturing Anopheles.
3706011|We can identify agricultural systems in which spiders might best be applied in pest suppression from study of the mechanisms by which spider populations influence prey in natural ecosystems. Theory predicts that prey control is achieved through the development of a stable interaction between predator and prey populations. Two models have been applied to predator control of prey, limit cycle and equilibrium point or focal control. Limit cycle control is exerted on a prey species population by a predator species that tracks the densities of its prey. Although the limit cycle approach is commonly applied to pest control situations, the long life cycles and generalist feeding habits of spiders limit their abilities to exhibit density-dependent tracking of their prey. Crops with short growing seasons and species-depauperate systems are the best candidates for limit cycle influences of spiders on prey. Spider populations that exhibit an uneven age-structure and have strong migratory/aggregational tendencies would offer the greatest pest suppression in these simple systems. Equilibrium point/focus control involves the limiting effects of an assemblage of polyphagous feeders on an assemblage of prey species. Spiders fit this model to a greater extent than they do a limit cycle model of prey control. Agricultural systems that conserve spider densities and species representation through minimal chemical application and the maintenance of ground cover are good candidates for equilibrium point control of prey by spiders. It is also important to recognize that many success stories in agroecosystems do not involve stable interactions between predator and prey populations. Indirect effects (e.g., the cessation of feeding in the presence of a predator) and superfluous killing of prey are two factors that augment the influence of spiders on targeted insect populations.
3705644|The pholcid spider, Crossopriza lyoni (Blackwall 1867) is a common inhabitant of homes in a rural village in Chachoengsao Province, Thailand. Studies on the spider were initiated because its microhabitat closely coincided with that of adult Aedes aegypti (Linnaeus 1762), mosquito vectors of dengue virus. Laboratory observations showed that females deposited eggs 4-6 days after copulation. Females held the egg sac in their mouthparts for 11-13 days, until all spiderlings (mean = 34) had left the sac. Spiderlings did not feed until they had molted, but as soon as feeding commenced they were capable of overpowering a mosquito many times their own size. Sometimes spiderlings would share a single mosquito or eat a mosquito wrapped by the mother spider. Spiderlings separated from their mother grew more rapidly than those left with the mother and reached maturity in as little as 74 days. The spiders' principal means of capturing prey was to throw silk with the aid of the hind legs. Spiders used this method to immobilize mosquitoes which were entangled in the standing web or to catch flying mosquitoes. The mosquito was not bitten until the time of feeding, up to six days after capture. Feeding occurred on only 34-48% of the days, and spiders ate about one mosquito per day. Cannibalism was a significant mortality factor, according for 67-84% mortality in a cage of spiderlings. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was adapted to test spider tissue for presence of dengue virus. The ELISA was used to show that spiders did not become infected when fed dengue-infected mosquitoes. The results of the study suggested that C. lyoni could form an important component of integrated control of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in foci of dengue transmission.
3706188| Pseudotrogulus funebris, new species, is described from Estao Biolgica de Paranapiacaba (Santo Andr, State of So Paulo, Brazil). P. funebris differs from other species of the genus by the presence of a large number of tubercles on area I close to the median groove, area III with tubercles concentrated in the median region, tergite III with a large rhomboid tubercle and tarsus III-IV with 8 articles. Pseutrogulus is newly transferred to Hernandariinae based on the following characteristics: 1) median-anterior tubercles on anterior margin pointing upwards; 2) large tubercles on lateral-anterior margin; 3) eye mound with two tubercles upward. 
25654019|Myrmarachne bakeri Banks 1930 is a polymorphic, generalized ant-mimicking jumping spider. In this study, variation in its polymorphic characters was observed and described. Myrmarachne bakeri varies in color, glossiness and patterns; and differs from other polymorphic ant-like spiders because it becomes polymorphic before adulthood. Morphological changes appear to have no set archetype, and few spiders revert to morphs previously observed. Polymorphism is widespread in Myrmarachne, but to date no species has been shown to exhibit the type of variation found in M. bakeri.
3706218| Spiders in the family Linyphiidae are numerically dominant and show remarkably high diversity in northern forests, but relatively little is known about their phenology in northern latitudes of North America. We report a phenological summary of close to 6,000 individual linyphiids representing 17 species. These were collected by pitfall trapping during two snow-free seasons in an old-growth deciduous boreal forest in central Alberta, Canada. Three species of approximately the same body size, Allomengea dentisetis (Grbe 1861), Bathyphantes pallidus (Banks 1892), and Lepthyphantes intricatus (Emerton 1911), dominated the sample, and showed three distinct patterns of peak activity. This suggests temporal stratification as a possible mechanism that explains their co-existence. Four less commonly collected species within the same genus (Walckenaeria) showed similar seasonal segregation in periods of peak activity. Comparisons with other literature suggest the general phenology of many linyphiids is conserved across continental and global scales. 
3706336|In the 48 contiguous United States, the wolf spider subfamily Pardosinae is represented by 65 species of Pardosa and 1 species of Acantholycosa. This study provides a comprehensive account of all species of Pardosinae in the USA including keys, some of which are new, for their identification. Based on genital morphology, the species of Pardosa in the USA can be divided into 14 species groups containing from one to 17 species. The male of P. ourayensis Gertsch 1933 is illustrated for the first time. Difficulties arise in the identification of some sister species which are both morphologically and geographically close; and also many of the species in the sternalis group which can be identified only by their distribution.
3704939|The genus Neogovea, traditionally placed in the subfamily Stylocellinae of the family Sironidae, is surveyed, and two new species N. kamakusa and N. mexasca, are described. The latter is the first troglobitic cyphophthalmid to be reported from the Americas. Species of Neogovea are related to species of Brasilogovea, Metasiro, Metagovea and Chileogovea, in that order. The author does not formally recognize family and subfamily names in the Cyphophthalmi, believing that a complete reorganization of the group is warranted. The new term eusternum is coined to describe a median sternal sclerite found between the meso- and metasterna of N. kamakusa.
3705480|Two North American Pardosa species assigned to the modica group are treated and illustrated. Pardosa wasatchensis Gertsch (Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Idaho, Washington; with Pardosa subra Chamberlin & Ivie from Oregon placed as junior synonym) is redescribed, and the male is described for the first time. Pardosa vogelae, new species, is described on material from Leidy Peak and vicinity in the Uintah Mountains (Utah).
3705349|The scorpion Centruroides koesteri Kraepelin from Costa Rica, previously known only from one female, is redescribed and illustrated. Additional specimens of both sexes come from Provincia de Guanacaste. This species appears to be endemic to northwestern Costa Rica's tropical semi-evergreen and deciduous forest, and to be rather strictly arboreal in habits. Its closest relative is considered to be Centruroides margaritatus (Gervais), and differential characters between these, and other related species, are given.
4129853|A detailed examination of the egg sac of Zygiella x-notata (Clerck 1757) revealed its structure, composition and different fibers. All egg sacs were composed of a basic layer, an insulation layer and an outer layer. The insulation layer consisted of two layers of cylindrical (or tubuliform) fibers with different diameters and probably with different mechanical properties. Knowing the complete structure of the egg sac allows us to locate and extract the needed fibers for further research and to observe how the egg sac composition alters in relation to the habitat.
3706389| The spider Homalonychus theologus is endemic to desert zones from southwestern California to southern Baja California Peninsula. Until now little has been published about its biology. In this paper we describe the reproductive and self-burying behavior and some aspects of the ecology of the species. Courtship behavior is between levels I and II, and the copulation position is a modification of type III. The male wraps the female's legs in silk before mating. This behavior could help justify inclusion of the Homalonychidae in the superfamily Lycosoidea. Possible camouflage behavior was attributed to the observation that these spiders can camouflage themselves by adhered sand grains to their bodies and buried themselves in the substratum. Females constructed eggsacs two days on average after mating one eggsac contained 29 eggs and other zero. Females incorporated sand "collars" to the egg sac with silk, probably as protection for the eggs against the dry environment as well as camouflage. This activity was carried out within 34 hours before oviposition. In the field, solitary spiders were found mainly under dead fallen cacti Pachycereus pringlei. /// La araa Homalonychus theologus es endmica de las zonas desrticas del sur de California hasta el sur de la pennsula de Baja California. Hasta ahora se conoce poco acerca de su biologa. En este artculo describimos los hbitos reproductores, conducta de enterramiento y aportamos algunos datos ecolgicos de esta especie. La conducta de cortejo es intermedia entre los niveles I y II y la posicin de cpula corresponde a una modificacin del tipo III. El macho envuelve las patas de la hembra con seda antes de la cpula. Esta conducta puede contribuir a que las Homalonychidae puedan ser incluidas en la Superfamilia Lycosoidea. La posible conducta de enterramiento fue registrada cuando las araas incorporaron granos de arena a sus cuerpos y se enterraron en el sustrato. Las hembras fabrican sus ovisacos pocos das despus del apareamiento con un promedio de dos das en su elaboracin y el nmero de huevos observado fue de 0-29 por ovisaco. Las hembras incorporan "collares" de arena con seda al ovisaco como una probable proteccin de los huevos a la desecacin del medio. Este evento fue llevado a cabo en 34 horas. En el campo, las araas se encontraron principalmente solas y bajo cardones en descomposicin Pachycereus pringlei. 
3705803| The effect of temperature on oviposition rate and early development of Theridion rufipes in northern Queensland was investigated. Development did not proceed at 20C, and embryos and postembryos responded differently to temperatures of 25C and 30C. The time interval between ovipositions by the female was markedly extended at 20C, a temperature at which development was unlikely. 
3704956|A subterranean pseudoscorpion species, Apochthonius forbesi, new species, is described from a lavatube sink in central Oregon; it is compared, both morphologically and ecologically, to A. malheuri Benedict and Malcolm from Malheur Cave, southeastern Oregon.
20798575|A new species of Ricinulei of the genus Cryptocellus Westwood 1874 is described from the Madeira-Purus Interfluve, Amazonas, Brazil. It shares a set of apomorphies with Cryptocellus peckorum Platnick & Shadab 1977 and Cryptocellus tarsilae Pinto-da-Rocha & Bonaldo 2007, with which it forms an assemblage of related species herein named the peckorum group. A second group of species, the Cryptocellus adisi group, is formed by the following species: Cryptocellus adisi Platnick 1988, Cryptocellus florezi Platnick & Garca 2008, and Cryptocellus lisbethae Gonzlez-Sponga 1998.
3706209|Orb-web spiders may anticipate their future prey environment by detecting the presence of prey and adjusting their web building behavior accordingly. Here we investigate the effect of different prey sizes and density on the web size and mesh height of the orb webs constructed by Argiope keyserlingi. The experimental design allowed the transmission of prey vibrations but prevented any capture. We found that A. keyserlingi constructed webs more frequently in the presence of prey, but did not alter the web size or mesh height of their webs.
3704950|Outdoors, newly hatched Araneus diadematus spiderlings collectively inhabit a communal web until the onset of solitary orb-weaving. In the laboratory, isolated eggs hatched more frequently than grouped ones; most animals reared in isolation survived, but their mortality was greater than among communally reared controls. Spatial measurements on the communal web showed significant spreading of animals over time, an effect facilitated by low relative humidity. Animals reared in isolation subsequently built functional orb webs, though there were significant web differences between groups in protein content, size, regularity, and hub location measures. The results suggest that communal life is nonessential for hatching and growth of animals, though maturation is slower in isolates. The communal web period is discussed as flexible time which permits adjustment of ontogenetic development to varying environmental conditions.
3706138| The male of Xysticus brevidentatus Wunderlich 1995 was originally described from Dubrovnik in Croatia, but females have remained unknown. During a revision of museum material in Vienna further specimens including both males and associated females from Albania, Italy and Yugoslavia were discovered. The morphology of the male pedipalp allows the placement of X. brevidentatus in the cristatus group which contains, among others, X. cristatus (Clerck 1757), X. audax (Schrank 1803), X. macedonicus ilhav 1944 and X. pseudocristatus Azarkina & Logunov 2001. Detailed analyses of the females showed that the shape of the female epigyne and vulva is consistent with the general scheme of the cristatus group and that the specimens can, due to a number of distinctive characters, be regarded as the females of X. brevidentatus. 
4129829|Bulgaria is home to 975 species of spiders in 41 families. This number was established after a critical review of the existing literature and taxonomic review of the available collections. The spiders are distributed in all districts of Bulgaria, occurring in lowlands, forests, mountains, caves and urban territories. According to their current distribution the established 975 species can be split into 27 zoogeographical categories, grouped into five major chorotypes (Cosmopolitan, Holarctic, European, Mediterranean, Endemics). The largest number of species belongs to the widely distributed species in the Holarctic, but the most characteristic are the endemics. Their established number (76 species) is high and reflects the local character of the fauna. This phenomenon can be attributed to the relative isolation of the mountains compared with the lowlands in the context of paleo-enviromental changes since the Pliocene.
4129824|The present study is based on a large-scale sampling program carried out in the area of Vitosha Mountain (Bulgaria). The ecological profiles of the Opiliones inhabiting the investigated area are modelled by a mixed approach, using Generalized Additive Models (GAMs) over a Multiple Correspondence Analysis (MCA, performed on the sites by environmental variables matrix) ordination plot. According to the literature data describing the harvestmen species from Vitosha Mountain, the most important factor determining the ecological classification of the Opiliones is the habitat type. The modelled ecological profiles revealed that the elevation contributes the most to the ecological characterization of the Vitosha harvestmen species, followed by the habitat type and moisture regime of the sampling localities. Few harvestmen species demonstrate preferences to the middle- and high-mountain zones, while the majority of harvestmen species are confined exclusively to the low-mountain zone. The different species showed different responses (most of them were linear, not unimodal) towards the environmental variables.
25434337|Instances are documented of salticids robbing ants by adopting a specialized behavior pattern, "snatching." The salticid positioned itself beside an ant column on the wall of a building, repeatedly fixating its gaze on different individual ants in the column and maintaining fixation on the ant by turning its body while the ant walked by. When close to an ant that was carrying prey, the salticid maneuvered about so that it was head on, grabbed hold of the prey using its chelicerae, and then rapidly pulled the prey out of the ant's mandibles. Having secured the prey, the salticid moved away from the ant column to feed. All observations were made at Mbita Point, by the shore of Lake Victoria in western Kenya. The salticids were three species of Menemerus (Simon 1868): M. bivittatus (Dufour 1831), M. congoensis Lessert 1927 and an undescribed species, Menemerus sp. n. The ant species were from the genera Crematogaster (Lund 1831) and Camponotus (Mayr 1861). In all instances, the salticid was 2-6 mm in body length (juveniles of all three Menemerus species and adults of Menemerus sp. n). Prey items taken from ants were, in most instances, "lake flies" (adults of Chaoboridae and Chironomidae).
3706361|Two spider-boarding mantispids, Mantispa uhleri Banks 1943 and Climaciella brunnea (Say 1824), were found to be partitioning available spider egg resources in an Illinois woods based on vertical stratification. Mantispa uhleri was found to be phoretic on the philodromid Philodromus vulgaris (Hentz 1847), the salticid Metacyrba undata (De Geer 1867) and the anyphaenid Aysha gracilis (Hentz 1847) at levels of 75%, 26%, and 27% respectively. All of these spiders were collected from areas above the forest floor. In contrast, C. brunnea was collected from 19% of leaf litter-inhabiting lycosids of the genus Schizocosa. There was no host range overlap within the woods, but in a grassy field without appreciable stratification of vegetation adjacent to the woods, both M. uhleri and C. brunnea were found aboard the lycosid Rabidosa punctulata (Walckenaer 1837) at levels of 2% and 7% respectively. A single larva of Mantispa pulchella (Banks 1912) associated with an anyphaenid from the woodland sample was also collected in this study. Mantispids are far more common than has been previously supposed and are likely an important factor in spider population dynamics and the evolution of spider behavior.
3705044|The four species of pseudoscorpions described by R. V. Chamberlin in 1925, but neglected since that time, are redescribed and placed in modern context. They are now Pachyolpium isolatum, Lustrochernes consocius, Chelodamus atopus, and Chelodamus mexicolens. The genus Chelodamus is redefined and Chelanops atopus Banks is newly assigned to it.
4489045|The present paper gives a review of the Solenysa spiders. Five of the six known Solenysa species were examined, including the types of S. longqiensis, S. wulingensis and S. circularis. Illustrations of these five species as well as diagnoses and distributional data of all species are provided.
25067895|We report release of silk threads by males of Schizocosa malitiosa (Tullgren 1905) during copulation. The silk is deposited over the female's front legs and near her mouthparts. Possible functions for this behavior could be inhibiting female aggressiveness through chemicals deposited on the silk, inducing female catalepsy during copulation or repelling other males. We propose future studies manipulating male silk release to test these hypotheses.
23610228|The scorpion Diplocentrus zacatecanus Hoffmann (1931) was originally described as a subspecies of Diplocentrus keyserlingi Karsch 1880 on the basis of six syntypes and was later elevated to species level. We designate a male lectotype and redescribe the species, including illustrations of the hemispermatophore of a male collected near the type locality. In this genus, the hemispermatophore is poorly sclerotized and lacks elaborate capsular structures, which are taxonomically useful in other genera. We review the variability in the hemispermatophores of males from one population, including five comparisons of the right and left hemispermatophores of the same males. Our results showed asymmetry in the length of the right and left hemispermatophores of the same individual. We also observed the presence of "crenulations" or "spines" in two different hemispermatophores (not complementary ones). We conclude that caution should be used when describing the hemispermatophore of only one male and considering it as diagnostic for the species, because of the high levels of intraspecific variation.
25067890|Spider field collections often consist of a high percentage of immature specimens that are not identifiable to species; in many studies these juveniles are discarded and not used in analyses. To evaluate if this practice affects the results of a community study, we sampled foliage-dwelling spiders in two habitats, reared the collected immature spiders until maturity, and identified them to species. We tested if measurements of species richness, evenness, and assemblage composition changed with the exclusion of data from immature specimens by analyzing two datasets: one including mature spiders only, the other including both mature and immature spiders (complete dataset). Nine of the total 49 spider species were collected only as juveniles, but only one of these nine species, Philodromus praelustris Keyserling 1880, was common ( 10% of collection). The distribution of individuals among species was more even in the complete dataset than the mature-only dataset, which could either indicate differences in composition or reflect sampling effort. However, species richness estimates were similar regardless of dataset, and there were only small changes in species composition of the samples between datasets, suggesting that there were not important compositional differences between the samples in each dataset. The inclusion of immature spiders in the data in this study yielded the same results that would occur with increased sampling effort.
3705238|Agelenopsis aperta (Gertsch) inhabits desert grasslands and lava beds in the southwestern U.S.A. The capacity of this species to cold-harden was assessed by exposing second generation laboratory-reared specimens to an artificial low temperature cycle simulating the "summer-autumn-winter" transition. Low temperature acclimation had no effect on whole body supercooling points, freeze tolerance or rates of oxygen consumption. Elevated levels of cryoprotectants were not detected using high performance liquid chromatographic techniques. Cold tolerance was similar between males, females and immatures. Exposure to temperatures immediately above the whole body supercooling point caused no apparent injury. It is hypothesized that movement into protected overwintering microhabitats may obviate the necessity for the evolution of seasonal mechanisms of cold-hardening in A. aperta.
41758961|The brown widow spider, Latrodectus geometricus C. L. Koch 1841, is non-native to North America and has experienced an explosive range expansion in the first decade of the 21st century. Previously restricted to peninsular Florida, it is now well established in the southeastern United States and southern California. In southern California, brown widow spiders have become ubiquitous around urban homes and are well known to the general public because of their high numbers and distinctive spiked egg sacs. Several insects attack egg sacs of the native western black widow, L. hesperus Chamberlin & Ivie 1935, as either parasitoids or egg predators. We investigated whether and to what degree these insects would attack brown widow egg sacs. We dissected 3,739 brown widow egg sacs finding evidence of the chloropid fly, Pseudogaurax signatus (Loew 1876) in 2.0% and wasp parasitoids in 0.4% of the sacs. For comparison, we also dissected 263 western black widow egg sacs with P. signatus showing a higher level of prdation (6.1%). Other brown widow sac inhabitants included larvae and adults of dermestid beetles, psocids, and lepidopterans, which are probably scavengers or incidental occupants. The overall impact of the recorded predators and parasitoids is too low to explore the possibility of a biological control program. Additionally, due to the relatively low number of predators/parasitoids in brown widow egg sacs and the entanglement of small arthropods on the outer surface, we speculate that the spiked egg sac surface might serve as an effective barrier to most predators and parasitoids.
4489056|Nesticodes rufipes is widely distributed in tropical and subtropical regions, being strongly associated with humans. However, few behavioral and ecological studies have investigated interspecific interactions between these spiders and insects of medical and veterinary importance. Here, we have investigated prey choice by N. rufipes when two different prey species, Musca domestica and Dermestes ater, were offered simultaneously. We also quantified the capture of these prey types by this predator in a poultry house and analyzed the association between prey- choice with physical characteristics of the prey. Finally, we discuss whether there is an antagonistic intraguild interaction in such a system composed of N. rufipes (top predator), D. ater (predator of larvae of M. domestica and prey of N. rufipes) and M. domestica (N. rufipes' prey). We found that Musca domestica were more abundant than D. ater in N. rufipes webs in the poultry house. Spiders given a choice of adults of M. domestica plus adults of D. ater, and also on adults plus larvae of M. domestica, preyed more on adult flies than on the other prey types. This preference was probably associated with the lesser mass and shorter lengths of adult flies. Our experiments demonstrated that the predation impact of N. rufipes on D. ater is low when compared to M. domestica. This result provides evidence that an antagonistic interaction between these predators does not occur, suggesting that they are in fact acting either synergistically or additively on M. domestica prey.
4129827| Harvestmen show a high degree of endemism in the Atlantic Rain Forest (eastern coast of Brazil). This biome shows the highest diversity of harvestmen inhabiting Brazil; 2/3 of the species are found in this area. Most of the species are distributed in a few thousand square kilometers, almost always within one mountain range. The similarities of 26 localities were studied, including sites from the Brazilian savanna, using data from recent collections (more than 8,000 specimens) and published data. A cluster analysis using Srensens Coefficient indicated a high degree of endemism of species of harvestmen (similarity indexes below 0.5). It resulted in six main clusters related to the large mountain ranges and near sites. A high variation in richness was observed; 4-64 species per locality. The distribution of 84 species of four recently reviewed subfamilies of Gonyleptidae (Goniosomatinae, Caelopyginae, Progonyleptoidellinae and Sodreaninae) was studied. Eleven areas of endemism, with 3-14 endemic species each, were proposed. A primary Brooks Parsimony Analysis showed a possible first vicariant event splitting the fauna of two northern areas from the rest, and a second event splitting the fauna of southern areas (until 2435"S) from those areas related to certain mountain ranges in the central Atlantic Rain Forest. The vicariant events were related to the uplifting of the Serra do Mar and the Serra da Mantiqueira, and the appearance of large rivers and climatic changes. 
4149972| A new species, Vaejovis atenango, belonging to the V. punctipalpi group is described from southern Mexico; this group was previously only known from the North American deserts in the USA and northern Mexico. This geographically discontinuous distribution is similar to that observed in the scorpion genus Hadrurus Thorell 1876 (Scorpiones, Iuridae). /// Se describe una nueva especie, Vaejovis atenango, del grupo V. punctipalpi del sur de Mxico; este grupo solo se conoca de los desiertos de Norte Amrica en los EE.UU. y el norte de Mxico. Esta distribucin geogrfica discontinua es similar a la del gnero de alacranes Hadrurus Thorell 1876 (Scorpiones, Iuridae). 
3704966|Phoroncidia studo constructs snares consisting of single, more or less horizontal sticky lines. Fragmentary evidence suggests that the sciarid fly Bradysia sp. nr. coprophila may be attracted to these snares.
3705425|A cladistic analysis of the 11 species of the antrodiaetid trapdoor spider genus Aliatypus generally supports the phylogeny proposed by Coyle (1974) but resolves the polytomy of the four erebus group species and suggests that A. thompsoni is the sister of the five californicus group species.
3705302|Traumatic (teratological and accidental) variation in the structure of the abdominal sclerites has been studied in the pseudoscorpion species Neobisium carpaticum Beier 1934, and N. fuscimanum (C. L. Koch 1843). In the former species, tergal abnormalities have been found in 0.75 - 1.33% of the samples analyzed; in the latter, tergal and sternal deficiencies have been noted in 0.97% of the sample studied. The following aberrations have been observed: hemiatrophy, hemimery, symphysomery, and enlargement of the sclerites, as well as various combinations of these anomalies. The pathomorphology and possible origin of these teratological phenomena are discussed.
24717279|Darwin's naturalization hypothesis (DNH) states that the successful establishment of alien species is favored when the phylogenetic relationship between the colonizer and the recipient community is distant. From a population perspective, the establishment involves both the progressive increase in size and spatial distribution of the invasive population. In this study, we focused our attention on the spatial component of establishment, assessing the role of phylogenetic relatedness as a determinant of its extension. Following DNH, it is expected that alien species closely related to the native spiders would show narrower distribution ranges than alien taxa less related to the native species. We found 18 alien spider species in Chile; all of these are synanthropic and most are of African origin. Our results indicate a difference in range size between related and unrelated species but it was not statistically significant. Consequently, the results do not support DNH as an explanation of the distributional component of establishment of alien spider species in Chile. We conclude that ecological constraints do not affect the process of invasion of spiders; therefore, it is only time that determines the spread of alien spiders in this country.
3705808|Observations were made on the reproductive periods of nine species of Phidippus occurring in South Carolina. Phidippus audax (Hentz) oviposited from May through the following early spring, while most other species had much shorter and seasonally defined oviposition periods. The reproductive periods noted in these studies were similar to published reports from other regions where these species occur.
3706025|Spiders of andezite and limestone rocks in Central Bohemia were studied. The material was collected using hanging desk traps. Rocky habitats are inhabited by a well-established spider assemblage. A lower slope angle, and consequently more diverse terrain, probably support a higher species diversity. Some species inhabit exclusively rocky habitats. Segestria bavarica and Theridion betteni occur in the Czech Republic exclusively on rocky habitats. Erigonoplus jarmilae, Zelotes puritanus, and Altella biuncata appear to occur primarily on rocky habitats. Anyphaena furva appears to live on trunks of trees growing on sun-exposed rocks. Some thermophilous species narrow their ecological niche exclusively to southern exposed rocky habitats with a warm microclimate towards the north.
4489047|We tested the hypothesis that coffee systems with organic management have higher spider diversity by comparing a control (rainforest area) and two coffee systems, one with organic and the other with conventional management. Spiders were sampled every two weeks over three months during the dry season and three months during the rainy season in 2000. Spider alpha diversity was analyzed using Shannon and Simpson indices. We also used the Cody index for beta diversity and cluster analysis for analyzing changes in species abundance hierarchies. 2261 individuals were collected (including juveniles and adults) representing 20 families, 56 genera and 97 species. In most cases the alpha diversity indices showed no relation between management gradient and spider diversity. When compared across seasons, spider diversity differed significantly only in organic management. Species turnover among the three sites (Cody index) was highest between the two coffee farms but not so clearly in the dry vs. rainy season; the conventional management shared the fewest species with the forest. Cluster analysis showed changes in abundance hierarchy related to management type. Our results did not support the proposed hypothesis of a direct positive correlation between management gradient and alpha spider diversity. In contrast, beta diversity showed that management and seasons influenced species composition.
3706385|Although spiders generally do not have a strong association with the plants on which they live, the jumping spider Psecas chapoda inhabits and breeds on Bromelia balansae (Bromeliaceae). To understand the relationship between Psecas chapoda and Bromelia balansae, we investigated whether the type of habitat (forest or grassland), the size of the bromeliad and the inflorescence of the host plants affected the preference and/or density of P. chapoda. We also examined how spiders of different ages and their eggsacs were distributed on the leaf layers of the rosette of host plants and whether P. chapoda used other plants in addition to B. balanasae. Psecas chapoda occurred with higher frequency on bromeliads in grasslands to those in forest. In grassland, larger bromeliads had more spiders, but this was not true of bromeliads in the forest. This spider avoided bromeliads with inflorescence. Most of the spiderlings (70%) occurred in the central layer of the rosette leaves, and their distribution pattern suggested that they sought shelter to protect themselves from desiccation or cannibalism, both of which are commonly observed in this species. Older spiders, as well as females without eggsacs, occurred in the external layers whereas 90% of the females with eggsacs occurred close to the central layers. Deposition of the eggsacs near the center of the rosette can allow the spiderlings to reach their shelter rapidly and to be less exposed to desiccation and cannibalism. The non-detection of P. chapoda on non-bromeliad plants, and the stereotyped behaviors on the host-plant suggest that this jumping spider was strongly associated with B. balansae.
25067880|I examined prey choice of the brown recluse spider (Loxozceles reclusa Gertsch & Mulaik 1940) with reference to unusual scavenging behavior originally reported by Sandidge (2003). Because scavenging is an unexpected behavior in normally predatory spiders, I hypothesized that special circumstances must converge for the brown recluse to prefer dead prey over live prey. I offered crickets (Acheta domesticus) to brown recluses in several choice experiments. I varied predator satiation (spiders not fed for two or four weeks), prey size (small or large), and prey quality (live, fresh dead, dead 1-2 days, 1 week or 1 month). Overall, recluses preferred live prey over dead, but their choice was influenced by all three variables. Recluses were more likely to scavenge when presented with large live prey paired with dead prey of equal size than when presented with small live and dead prey. Spiders that had fed recently were more likely to scavenge. Finally, recluses preferred dead prey that were freshly killed or less than 24 hours old to items dead for longer periods. My results suggest that scavenging is an opportunistic behavior in recluses that requires specific circumstances that may rarely occur in nature.
24365321|Terrestrial animals often inhabit stochastic boundaries between terrestrial and aquatic habitats which are under constant risk of flooding. In these circumstances, terrestrial arthropods often exhibit behavioral and physiological adaptations to cope with this risk by either avoiding flooding or tolerating submersion. We present the results of a study designed to explore submersion tolerance in a lakeshore population of Pardosa lapidicina (Emerton 1885), a eurytopic lycosid. Spiders were submerged in lake water for 4, 8, 11, or 16 hours, then removed and tested for responsiveness. Each spider was checked for responsiveness a second time after an eight-hour period in a dry vial. Spiders that were submerged for longer periods were less likely to be responsive immediately after removal. However, between 7% and 38% additional spiders resumed activity eight hours after removal, their recovery depending on their time submerged. This suggests that adult P. lapidicina can survive long periods of submersion in a quiescent state and later resume activity.
3705853|Two species of orb-web spiders, Argiope aurantia Lucas and Argiope trifasciata (Forskal) were used to analyze how accurately spider and web characteristics could predict the type, size, and number of prey captured. The ecomorphological hypothesis proposes that spider and web characteristics determine what subset of the prey population actually will be captured. Prey size and taxa are functions of web height, web diameter and spider size. Mesh density is a poor predictor of these parameters. The number of prey captured by spiders is not correlated with any spider or web characteristic except mesh density of A. aurantia. Species-specific differences in spider and web characteristics occurred until both species reached maturity (October). The major differences were that A. trifasciata were smaller and matured later than A. aurantia. These differences were accompanied by species-specific differences in the size and taxa of prey, but these parameters also converged during October. Differences in the two species may have evolved because of (1) exploitation competition, (2) non-competitive resource partitioning, or (3) interference competition. The diet overlap of the two species was generally high but increased even higher in October. Therefore, it is doubtful that dietary differences were sufficient to prevent exploitation competition.
3705305|Ballooning, a form of dispersal rarely seen in mygalomorph spiders, was observed one early spring day in about 30 Sphodros spiderlings. After ascending a stump, each spiderling became airborne by dropping and hanging from a dragline which then gradually lifted and lengthened in the breeze, broke at its attachment point, and served as the ballooning thread. Although less effective than the aerial dispersal mechanisms of many araneomorph spiders, this technique can nevertheless produce higher and longer flights than Bristowe and others have suspected.
3705362|The crab spider Misumena vatia, a sit-and-wait predator commonly found on flowers, did not specialize on prey, although the commonest prey (bumble bees Bombus spp. and tiny syrphid flies Toxomerus marginatus) on pasture rose differed so greatly in size that specialization was predicted. On milkweed the commonest prey (bumble bees and honey bees Apis mellifera) were more similar in size, and the predicted generalist strategy was observed. Spiders on milkweed inflorescences usually selected the best hunting sites, but not all did so, as predicted. The sites chosen best match the frequency of prey visits to inflorescences of differing quality. Spiders on good stems moved more frequently than those on poor stems; however, their success was extremely variable.
3705713|A new species of Dipluridae, Linothele cavicola, is described (from the female only) from caves in Ecuador.
3706139|The first fossil cyphophthalmid harvestman, Siro platypedibus new species (Arachnida, Opiliones, Cyphophthalmi), is described from Bitterfeld amber, Sachsen-Anhalt, Germany. The age of this amber is in dispute. Geological studies support a Miocene (20-22 Ma) date for the deposit, but the presence of insect species identical to those in Baltic amber (dated at ca. 35-40 Ma) has led other authors to suggest that the Bitterfeld amber comprises older, redeposited material, contemporary with Baltic inclusions. Two features in this harvestman fossil are consistent with the Recent genera Siro, Paramiopsalis and Tranteeva: (a) smooth tarsi and metatarsi in legs 1 and 2 and (b) the apparent absence of a dorsal crest on the basal article of the chelicera. Unequivocal autapomorphies of any one of these genera are not clearly preserved in this fossil, but Paramiopsalis is a monotypic Iberian genus, and Tranteeva is a monotypic genus from Bulgaria, while Siro is more diverse and widely distributed, including living representatives in Central Europe relatively close to the Bitterfeld type locality. For this reason we assign the fossil to Siro.
41758970|We present the first record and description of the gregarious behavior of the Neotropical harvestmen Serracutisoma proximum (Mello-Leito 1922) and Serracutisoma spelaeum (Mello-Leito 1933) (Opiliones: Gonyleptidae: Goniosomatinae) (DaSilva & Gnaspini 2010). We followed and described the pattern of these aggregations over a period of 17 months in a cave in southeastern Brazil. Individuals of the two species aggregated with both conspecifics and heterospecifics during the non-reproductive season (i.e., from October to March, the cool and dry season). Aggregations contained up to 81 individuals, usually with a female-biased adult sex ratio. Multispecific aggregations were usually composed mainly of representatives of one of the two species, suggesting that although these species also aggregate with heterospecifics, there is a preference for aggregating with conspecifics. This study provides novel information on the social behavior of harvestmen, specifically regarding the composition of multispecific aggregations.
3706325|Anyphaenoides locksae, a new species from Brazilian "caatinga", in Central, state of Bahia, is described.
3705136|The nocturnal araneid Scoloderus cordatus Taczanowski was observed in Florida and found to spin the same remarkable "inverted ladder web" described by Eberhard (1975) for a South American species. Other aspects of the spider's natural history and the unique "asterisk web" of another nocturnal araneid, Wixia ectypa Walckenaer, are described for the first time.
20617590|Plugging of female genitals via male sexual mutilation is a common sexual repertoire in some nephilid spiders (Herennia, Nephila, Nephilengys), but the behavioral pathways leading to emasculation are poorly understood. Recent work suggests that copulating Herennia males damage their reproductive organs during copulation and then voluntarily, and stereotypically, remove their pedipalps to become eunuchs. Presumably, such emasculation increases agility allowing the male to better fend off rival males. However, through our observation of male antagonism in Nephilengys borbonica (Vinson 1863) in La Reunion (Indian Ocean), we discovered that genital severance involving the entire male palp is induced by a rival eunuch. Additionally, laboratory matings of the same species from Mayotte provide the first observations of female sexual cannibalism in this species, one such forceful copulation termination leading to emasculation of the entire palp. These novel behaviors suggest that mate plugging and the eunuch phenomenon are more plastic repertoires than hitherto thought, and thus our observations add to possible pathways leading to them. Based on our examination of 791 samples of Nephilengys spp. from museum collections and of a freshly collected representative sample of N. borbonica, we conclude that i) palpal severance is common (50% of males from the wild were eunuchs lacking both palps), but ii) the females (or perhaps subsequent males) must possess a mechanism for removing severed palps from the epigyna (none had a whole palpal bulb), leaving behind only partial, embolic plugs, and iii) the disparity between male palpal damage (50%) and visible mating plugs in females (21%) merits further research as the relative numbers of severed males and plugged females can offer insight into which sex may have the upper hand in an evolutionary arms race.
3706048|Observations on the colony structure, life cycle, and behavior of Anelosimus rupununi in eastern Ecuador point to a level of social organization similar to that of Anelosimus eximus and Anelosimus domingo, confirming its status as a non-territorial, permanently-social species. Anelosimus rupununi colony members were seen to cooperate in prey capture and transport, to feed communally, and to take turns in tending the egg sacs. Sex ratios were also highly female-biased. There were, however, some interesting differences with these other species. Anelosimus rupununi egg sacs were grouped as part of maternal care efforts, with grouped sacs being more likely to be tended than ungrouped sacs. Males and females apparently matured at the same instar, males appeared shorter-lived than females, and individuals within the nests were clearly synchronized with each other in the stage of their life cycle. Also, as would be expected from its notably smaller body size, A. rupununi's life cycle appeared shorter than that of A. eximius.
3705215|This is the fourth and final part of a systematic revision of the order Schizomida (Arachnida) in the New World. The goodnightorum and briggsi species groups are revised and four species which cannot be placed in recognized groups are described. The following species are described and assigned to the goodnightorum group: S. goodnightorum (Rowland), S. orthoplax Rowland, S. lanceolatus Rowland, and S. silvino Rowland and Reddell. The following species are described and assigned to the briggsi group: S. pentapeltis (Cook), S. wessoni (Chamberlin), S. borregoensis (Briggs and Hom), S. shoshonensis (Briggs and Hom), S. joshuensis (Rowland), S. briggsi (Rowland), and S. belkini (McDonald and Hogue). The following unplaced species are described: S. troglobius new species, S. infernalis Rowland, Schizomus sp. from Sierra Nevada, Colombia, and S. armasi new species.
3706115|The spider genus Neoanagraphis consists of two partially sympatric species, N. chamberlini Gertsch & Mulaik 1936 and N. pearcei Gertsch 1941. Herein I review the genus which is now transferred from the Clubionidae to the Liocranidae, provide a distribution map and describe the females for the first time. Over 55% of the specimens of both species examined in this study came from the Nevada Test Site (i.e., atomic bombing range) in southern Nevada. Collection phenology at this site showed almost non-overlapping temporal activity for the males and habitats for each species within this area. Immatures from the Nevada Test Site also could be separated where the ventral anterior tibia spination and habitat dichotomy matched that of the adults. If this extrapolation holds throughout the distribution and there are no additional species, one should be able to accurately identify immatures of any size to species.
3704971|Male conspecifics and congeners were attracted to screened enclosures containing female Argiope trifasciata and Araneus trifolium. Male Argiope aurantia were found on cages containing female A. trifasciata which matured earlier than wild conspecifics. Males tended to aggregate on the downwind side of cages. This evidence supports the presence of an airborne sex pheromone emitted by females of these two species of orbweavers. The use of male-attractant pheromones should produce different mating strategies than expected from random search by males. High density and clumping of females may affect reproductive success and mate competition by generating stronger signals than those of isolated females.
3706300| Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of male-male agonistic encounters on changes in monoamine neurotransmitter concentrations in the supraesophageal ganglion (brain) of the tarantula, Aphonopelma hentzi. Serotonin levels were significantly reduced 30 min after fighting in both dominant (66.5  9.1 SE nmol/mg protein) and subordinate (42.8  7.6) animals as compared to isolated controls (89.7  13.2), and these differences persisted for up to 24 h. A similar decrease was found for octopamine concentrations in dominant (43.7  7.7) and subordinate (31.2  4.9) spiders when compared to controls (56.9  5.8). In addition, serotonin and octopamine levels were significantly lower in subordinate vs. dominant spiders. Agonistic interactions had no effect on the concentrations of dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine. In isolated control spiders, serotonin (89.7  13.2 SE nmol/mg protein) was present in highest concentration in the brain, followed by octopamine (56.9  5.8 nmol/mg), dopamine (22.4  3.8 pmol/mg), norepinephrine (15.3  4.7 pmol/mg), and epinephrine (0.57  0.2 pmol/mg). The results indicate that following agonistic encounters, monoamine concentrations in the brain decrease to different levels in winners and losers. This is the first demonstration that the establishment of social status causes changes in brain monoamines in spiders. 
3706146|Foraging behavior in spiders can be influenced by a variety of factors. Here we investigate the effects of hunger and predation risk on feeding behavior in the wolf spider Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1877) (Araneae, Lycosidae). Pardosa milvina is preyed upon by the larger wolf spider, Hogna helluo (Walckenaer 1837), and responds with appropriate antipredator behavior to the silk and feces of this species. We predicted that hungry Pardosa milvina would be more likely to forage and consume prey under predation risk than satiated individuals. We found that hungry Pardosa under predation risk consumed as many prey as spiders not under predation risk. However, satiated Pardosa consumed significantly fewer prey when under predation risk. Our data suggest that the animal's energetic needs are weighed against the risks of foraging when predators may be present.
40233847|We address the current taxonomic status of two problematic Eastern Asian species of Oecobius Lucas 1846 and propose nomenclatural changes in view of the information currently available. Oecobius formosensis (Kishida 1943) is considered unrecognizable and proposed as a nomen dubium. Two synanthropic species, Oecobius navus Lucas 1859 and Oecobius concinnus Simon 1893, are newly recorded for Taiwan. Evidence from the literature indicating that a third species (Oecobius marathaus Tikader 1962) also occurs in that country is provided. Oecobius sapporense Saito 1934 is transferred to the genus Neriene Blackwall 1833 (Linyphiidae) based on its original description and illustrations.
3704969|Ideobisium Balzan and Ideoblothrus Balzan are redefined after examination and redescription of the types, Ideobisium crassimanum Balzan and Ideoblothrus similis Balzan. Pachychitra Chamberlin is shown to be a synonym of Ideoblothrus. All known species of each genus are listed and doubtful species are discussed; Ideobisium balzanii With and Ideoblothrus seychellesensis (Chamberlin) are redescribed; and the following new species are described: Ideobisium chapmani, I. peckorum, I. ecuadorense, I. puertoricense, I. yunquense, and Ideoblothrus kochalkai, I. colombiae. The assignment of these genera to the family Syarinidae is discussed.
20798576|Phoneutria is one of the most medically important spider genera; however, its ecology is poorly known. In Amazonian upland rainforests, there are two sympatric species of the genus Phoneutria, P. reidyi (F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1897) and P. fera Perty 1833. For 15 months we collected data on the spatial distribution, use of habitat (activity on the ground or vegetation) and temporal changes in body size structure in a forest reserve near Manaus city in three distinct habitats: dense forest, located on the plateaus on yellow latossol; swamp forest, located in the valleys; and heath forest or "campinarana," on dry white sand soil in the Reserva Florestal Ducke. A total of 239 P. reidyi and 239 P. fera were captured in nocturnal searches during their period of activity. There were significant differences between the two species: 1) P. reidyi existed in higher abundance in the swamp forest than in the dense forest areas and was almost absent in the heath forest, while P. fera existed in similar abundance in the three habitats. 2) During their development, members of both species used the vegetation as an area of activity, but the subadults and adults of P. reidyi were less often found on the ground than the subadults and adults of P. fera. 3) P. reidyi more frequently used small or acaulescent palms as a substrate, and its abundance was directly related to the abundance of these palms, independent of the habitat, while P. fera did not show such relationship. 4) There was a strong temporal variation in the body size structure of the P. reidyi population indicating seasonal reproduction, but there was no evidence of seasonal reproduction by P. fera. We suggest that the differences in the use of habitat and in the seasonality of reproduction are related to the avoidance of intraguild predation between these species.
3705723| Diplocentrus diablo, new species, is described from the Rio Grande Valley of Texas, U.S.A., and northern Tamaulipas, Mxico 
3706318|We report for the first time the existence of eggsac recognition and maternal care in Loxosceles gaucho. Spiders confronted simultaneously with their own and foreign eggsacs stay closer to their own eggsacs. This is unexpected since eggsac recognition should evolve among species with clumped distributions, high maternal investments and few breeding opportunities, features not present in this species. Despite this recognition, spiders with a single eggsac make no distinction between their own and foreign eggsacs: they adopt eggsacs from sympatric, conspecific females, and take care of them as their own. It seems that there is a readiness to perform maternal care that overrules the recognition system. We describe oviposition behavior and compare it with other descriptions in the literature. Seven behavioral characters related to eggsac building and/or guarding are mapped onto available phylogenies. Maternal care behaviors are quite conservative among spiders, useful for the grouping not only of families, but also of higher order ranks.
24365319|Social experience is well-known to influence female mate preference in vertebrate animals, but such effects have been studied less in invertebrates. Studies have documented flexibility in female mate choice in the wolf spider genus Schizocosa as a result of juvenile female experience with courting adult males. Here we investigate whether juvenile exposure to male courtship influences adult female species-level mate recognition in the wolf spider Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz 1844) and its sympatric sibling species S. rovneri (Uetz & Dondale 1979). Because these species overlap in range, contact between them is probable as interspecies hybrids are occasionally found in nature. Juvenile females were exposed multiple times to conspecific or heterospecific male courtship. Upon maturing, each exposed female was paired with an adult male of the same or different species to which it had been previously exposed, and was observed to determine receptivity and willingness to copulate. Results suggest that juvenile experience plays only a minor role (if any) in development of female mate recognition at the level of species, because the type of juvenile experience (conspecific vs. heterospecific) did not significantly affect mating outcome for either species. However, some context-specific effects of experience were observed, because the amount of juvenile exposure to adult male courtship affected adult receptivity of females in both species in different ways. In S. ocreata, the overall amount of juvenile experience (rather than type) influenced adult female receptivity and aggression toward heterospecific males; females with more exposures were initially more receptive and less aggressive to heterospecifics. In S. rovneri, neither type nor amount of juvenile exposure had significant effects on female receptivity towards conspecific males, although females exposed to heterospecific male courtship as juveniles were initially less receptive towards conspecific males than were unexposed females. While these results confirm earlier findings of behavioral reproductive isolation at the species level, they differ from some other studies, raising intriguing questions about varying degrees of behavioral and genetic isolation in different geographical populations of these two species.
3705820|I examined habitat relationships and prey abundance to determine which (if either) of these factors was more important in determining the local density patterns of the Saint Andrew's Cross spider, Argiope keyserlingi Karsch. Focusing on the relationship between a predator and its prey distribution presupposes that prey capture rate is crucial to the biology of the predator. I also studied the influence of prey capture on survival, reproduction and behavior of A. keyserlingi as a test of this assumption. Reproduction of females was influenced by food availability under laboratory conditions. Survival was higher among individual females provided with supplemental food in a field experiment. Adult female A. keyserlingi moved less frequently when they were provided with supplemental food. Features of vegetation were correlated with patterns of spatial distribution of this spider. There was a highly significant correlation between spider density on the study plots and the density of the understory shrubs that were favored as web sites. On a broad scale, seasonal phenology of activity in A. keyserlingi was positively correlated with potential prey abundance. At the scale of individual study plots, there is evidence that prey distribution was unpredictable in both time and space and that neither the activity patterns nor local density of Argiope keyserlingi tracked these fluctuations.
3705752| Cluster analysis by four different techniques and Prim network were performed on morphological data from 31 characters of 15 males. The results of these methods showed that there are two species involved. Bryantella speciosa Chickering is redescribed. Parnaenus smaragdus Crane is transferred to Bryantella, redescribed and the female described for the first time. Parnaenus convexus Chickering is newly synonymized with B. smaragdus (Crane). New records are given. /// Se realiz anlisis de agrupamientos por cuatro tcnicas diferentes y retculo de Prim sobre datos morfolgicos de 31 caracteres de 15 machos. Los resultados de estos mtodos mostraron que hay dos especies involucradas. Se redescribe Bryantella speciosa Chickering. Se transfiere Parnaenus smaragdus Crane a Bryantella, se redescribe y la hembra se describe por primera vez. Se sinonimiza Parnaenus convexus con B. smaragdus (Crane). Se aportan nuevas citas. 
3705984|Epigeic invertebrates such as spiders are of increasing importance for habitat characterization and for assessments within environmental plannings in Germany and other European countries. Due to high costs for spider sampling (e.g., with pitfall traps), proposals for a limited sampling effort are required for the practical use. The results of a two-year study with continuous sampling are compared to results of short-term sampling and to results of a reduced number of traps. The same data set is used for all evaluations. Decreasing sampling effort generally reduced the number of recorded species and led to a biased ecological characterization of the spider communities. Reducing the number of pitfall traps used provided a more representative sample than did reducing the duration of sampling. In general, errors based on reduced sampling were lower for agricultural than for natural habitats. These results offer practical use of spiders for bioindication in future environmental planning.
23048805|In the Yucatan Peninsula, the tarantula Brachypelma vagans Ausserer 1875 is commonly associated with human settlements, as are the scorpions Centruroides gracilis Latreille 1804 and C. ochraceus Pocock 1898. Nonetheless, scorpions are virtually absent from villages showing a high density of tarantulas. Predatory interactions between these predators could explain the lack of local overlap. To test this hypothesis, we observed the behavioral interactions between B. vagans and C. gracilis or C. ochraceus in experimentally controlled conditions, and we compared these interactions to interactions between the tarantula and two prey species: cricket and cockroach. For observations, a pre-adult tarantula was placed in an experimental arena in which we introduced either a scorpion or an insect. In all, 115 trials were performed. We recorded time elapsed and behavioral responses: avoidance, attack, escape, capture, and attack success. Tarantulas preyed on all prey with the same attack success (63.8%  0.8%), but they attacked and captured cockroaches quicker and more often than the other prey (87% vs. 50%, and 57% vs. 30%, respectively). Scorpions attacked tarantulas in 25.5% of occasions, but they were never successful, and were killed in 9% of occasions. We conclude that tarantulas are potential predators of scorpions. Moreover, in villages where tarantulas are abundant they might prevent the presence of scorpions. Thus the presence of this non-aggressive tarantula may be beneficial from the human perspective.
20617592|This study analyzes predation by adult females of Misumenops pallidus (Keyserling 1880) on pairs of prey items representing non-pest insects and potential pests. The phenology of the potential pests was such that each insect guild peaked sequentially, while non-pest herbivorous and insectivorous insects were present during the entire period. Field experiments were made in a commercial 50-ha soybean plot during two successive years. Ten cages 1  1  0.5 m were placed in peripheral furrows of a soybean commercial plot. The pest species were preyed on differentially, with the order from the most favored species to the least with respect to non-pest herbivorous and insectivorous insects was as follows: defoliating lepidopterous larvae, seed feeding pentatomids in their early nymphal instars, stem boring lepidopterous larvae, and seed feeding pentatomids in older nymphal and adult instars. Adult females of M. pallidus fed on all the insect species offered, but in the presence of defoliator larvae, they hardly accepted alternative prey, whereas in the presence of other prey, they maintained a more generalized diet.
3706255|A new species, Xenochelifer derhami, is described from Inyo County, California. It differs from X. davidi Chamberlin primarily in having three, rather than two, trichobothria on the movable chelal finger. The generic diagnosis is revised accordingly. It is shown that Xenochelifer Chamberlin is closely allied to Hysterochelifer Chamberlin.
3705306|Characteristics of the genus Tangaroa are reviewed and the new species, T. beattyi, is described and compared with T. dissimilis (Berland) and T. tahitiensis (Berland). Cladistic analysis shows the first two species to be most closely related. The tetraspermathecate female genitalia of this genus show no evidence of fertilization ducts and appear to represent a transition state between haplogyne and entelegyne grades of organization.
40233828|The wolf spider genus Zoica Simon 1898 is currently known only from the Indo-Australasian region, including India in the west to northern Western Australia and Papua New Guinea in the east. Here we extend the known distribution of the genus into the Pacific region by describing two new species, Z. carolinensis new species from the Caroline Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and Z. pacifica new species from the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
4489046|We tested the hypothesis that the response of Paraphidippus aurantius (Lucas 1833) (Salticidae) to a simulated threat of predation would depend on a combination of spider size and reproductive status. In ponderosa pine forests of Colorado we located nests with spiders of varying sizes that were either adult female spiders guarding offspring or juvenile female and male spiders. To simulate a predator threat we applied a disturbance to the sides of spider nests using repeated puffs of air expressed from a rubber bulb or by blowing. We recorded the threat intensity (number of puffs) required to displace spiders from their nests, and then monitored the immediate responses of spiders to this threat. The threat intensity required to displace spiders guarding offspring was 2.3 times that of non-guarding spiders, and guarding spiders fled less than half as far as non-guarding spiders. Spider size had no effect on the threat intensity required for displacement, but larger spiders fled further than small ones. We then destroyed nests and monitored the long term responses of the spiders. Nests containing offspring were constructed with 4.6 times the mass of silk as those without offspring. When spiders rebuilt their nests, spider tenure in rebuilt nests did not differ between guarding spiders and non-guarding spiders. Spider size was negatively related to nest tenure for non-guarding spiders, but there was no such relationship for guarding spiders. These results suggest that both the short term and long term outcomes of interactions between P. aurantius and other predators may be influenced by a combination of spider size and offspring guarding behavior.
40233827|Rhopalurus abudi Armas & Marcano Fondeur 1987 was originally described on the basis of a single female specimen from Isla Saona, La Romana Province, off the southeast coast of the Dominican Republic. The species is redescribed here based on a series of new specimens including 19 adult males and 14 adult females collected at two nearby localities on the eastern side of Parque Nacional del Este, La Altagracia Province, southeastern Dominican Republic. These specimens represent the first records of R. abudi on mainland Hispaniola and the first male specimens of the species to be collected.
3705964|Carorita hiberna NEW COMBINATION, a species with many putative autapomorphies known from one sex and few specimens, is transferred from Sisicottus. This transfer is based on a modified version of a cladistic analysis of erigonine relationships by G. Hormiga which incorporated 43 spider taxa scored for 73 characters. The modified analysis features 46 taxa scored for 74 characters. The resulting cladogram placed C. hiberna sister to C. limnaea, the type species of Carorita. It is concluded that C. hiberna is better placed in Carorita than in either a new monotypic genus or in Sisicottus. Carorita hiberna is redescribed and the monophyly of Carorita as currently circumscribed is discussed.
25067813|The number of matings obtained by a male is likely to be a major component of his lifetime fitness. Males that depend on finding mates before their competitors must allocate resources to this effort, potentially at the expense of their reproductive rate. Male crab spiders Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757) often occur at low densities and experience considerable difficulty in finding females. This constraint might select for their cursorial body form and high movement rates at the expense of their reproductive rate. Male M. vatia will not mate more than once in rapid succession and typically no more than once every other day, although they are capable of several matings over their lifetime. Males may rarely encounter virgin females more often than once every other day and thus would experience little loss of fitness from an inability to mate in rapid order.
3704987|The burrowing biology of Cheloctonus jonesii Pocock from southern Africa is described. Pedipalpal burrowing is dealt with for the first time, and related to aspects of the ecology of this scorpion.
20617609|All scorpions possess jointed, ventral appendages called pectines. These organs have chemosensory, peg-shaped sensilla that detect substrate-borne chemicals. Previous physiological studies show that neurons within peg sensilla respond to an assortment of volatile organic chemical stimulants blown across the sensillar opening. We developed an improved method of chemical stimulant delivery called the mineral oil flood technique to further investigate the neural circuitry of scorpion pectines. The new mineral oil flood technique allows us to deliver chemical stimulants directly to individual sensilla by introducing a polar, liquid substance under non-polar mineral oil. Unlike previous methods of stimulant delivery, the mineral oil flood technique allows for precise control over the duration of direct contact between a liquid stimulant of known concentration and a sensillum.
4129890| The first known male of the whip spider Phrynus asperatipes (Wood) is described from two oases and other regions of Baja California Sur, Mxico. It differs from the females as follows: males have the carapace (6.5-7.9 mm) and abdomen (11.0-12.4 mm) smaller than females. Also on an average, the femora (2.3 mm) and tibiae (7.2 mm) of the antenniform legs are shorter than in females. 
23610264|There are conflicting statements in the literature about the date and organ of publication for the endemic Galpagos scorpion Centruroides exsul (Scorpiones: Buthidae) by Wilhelm Meise. In contrast to what the current authoritative taxonomic references suggest, this species was not described in 1934 but rather in 1933. Before the article containing the description finally was included in Volume 74 of the Norwegian journal Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne in 1934, it was distributed as a preprint in the form of Volume 39 of the separately issued series Meddelelser fra det Zoologiske Museum, Oslo in 1933. The latter publication, in full agreement with Article 21.8 of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, has priority over the former and consequently has to be referred to when citing the original taxonomic reference. The present contribution furthermore reviews the distribution of this species and, due to loss and mislabeling, revises its type material.
3705597|We examine copulatory behavior and the reproductive natural history of the spiny orbweaver, Micrathena gracilis. Censuses were conducted on free-ranging, individually marked spiders. After molting to adulthood, males induct sperm into their palps and then search for mates. Females inhabit solitary, individually-constructed webs. Males preferentially remain with penultimate-instar females, those about to molt and mate for the first time. After a female molts and constructs a viscid spiral, males build mating threads on which they court. After copulating, the male must dismount and reapproach the female to inseminate her second reproductive tract. Two copulations are therefore required for a complete mating between male and female. Some males, however, obtained only one copulation and two males often copulated with a given female. Staged encounters in the field revealed the important observation that when a male did copulate twice with a female, the duration of the second copulation was more than twice as long as the first. Shortly after the second copulation, the male inducted sperm into the palps and moved away. Females remained sexually receptive throughout their lives and apparently mated with any male. Females oviposited about 30 days after molting and mating. Egg sacs were cryptic in appearance and yet clutch mortality was high. Copulatory behavior is discussed in relation to this reproductive natural history.
3705642|On the basis of one male specimen, Callobius guachama Leech 1972 was first established during the familial revision of the Amaurobiidae. We have collected additional specimens of this spider and, herein, provide a description of the female as well as notes regarding the habitat and distribution of this large, montane spider.
3704942|A new genus, Microsa, is established for M. chickeringi, a new species from the Virgin Islands. Although closest to the African genus Asemesthes, Microsa differs from the other known gnaphosine genera in size and in characters of the eyes, spinnerets, and genitalia.
20617587|There is controversy about the function of silk stabilimenta, also called silk decorations, on spiders' webs. Most of the proposed hypotheses have been tested using indirect methods. Protection against predators, advertisement for vertebrates to avoid web damage, and increasing prey attraction are the most popular hypotheses. In this study, I tested the prey attraction hypothesis on the silk decorations of the araneid Argiope savignyi using a trial tunnel built in the field, in which I exposed stingless bees Tetragonisca angustula to decorated and undecorated webs placed on wooden frames. I carried out two experiments: 1) a three-frame choice, consisting of a frame bearing a decorated web, one bearing an undecorated web and a control frame without web and spider; 2) a two-frame choice, in which the bees were exposed to only two frames consisting of "decorated web vs. control," "decorated web vs. undecorated web," and "undecorated web vs. control". In favor of the prey attraction function, I found that decorated webs intercepted more bees than webs deprived of the decoration or controls with no webs. Argiope savignyi's decorations might lure prey to the web by UV-reflectance as it has been suggested for other Argiope species.
40233839|The scorpion Apistobuthus susanae Loureno 1998 is redescribed based on new specimens collected from Khoozestan Province, Iran. It is distinct from A. pterygocercus Finnegan 1932 found in the dunes of Rub' al-Khali. The two species cannot be separated by previously used diagnostic characters. Instead, A. susanae is differentiated from A. pterygocercus by new characters, including more robust legs and pedipalps, shorter pectines, stronger carination, and complete fusion of central lateral and posterior median carinae of the carapace.
3705773| To document variation in several developmental parameters and the effect of this variation on female adult size and fecundity, marked individuals were followed in three disjunct populations of the widely distributed spider Nephila clavipes (Araneae: Tetragnathidae). The sites chosen had very different physical and biological conditions which were expected to affect the development of the animals. Several developmental parameters were very plastic, such as weight gain and number of juvenile instars, varying both among and within populations. In contrast, two important developmental parameters, growth per molt and pre-molt weight, were constrained within each population but differed between tropical and temperate conditions. Constraining growth per molt established a developmental trajectory, and variation of its slope and of the number of juvenile instars were the primary causes of variation in adult female size and the correlated variation in the fecundity per egg sac. /// Para explorar la variacin en parmetros de ontogena y la consequenca de esta variacin para el tamao en hembras maduras, un estudio del campo usando individuos marcados fue hecho en tres poblaciones disconectadas de la araa Nephila clavipes (Araneae: Tetragnathidae). Los sitios escojidos presentaban condiciones fisicas y biolgicas muy distintas, los cuales se anticipaban a influir fuertamente en la ontogena de los animales. Algunos parmetros ontegeneticos se demostraban muy plsticos, mostrando variacin tanto dentro, como entre poblaciones, mientras que otros parmetros fueron menos plsticos. Dos parmetros importantes en el cresimiento de las araas, el cresimiento por muda y el peso antes de mudar, no variaban dentro de cada poblacin, pero mostraban variacin entre condiciones tropicales y templadas. Inflexibilidad en el parmetro de cresimiento por muda produce una trayectoria ontogentica. Variacin en el pendiente de tal trajectoria y en el nmero de estadios juveniles son los causas principales de la variacin observado en el tamao de las hembras maduras. 
25067849|Troglohyphantes bornensis, a new species from the western Italian Alps, is here described. According to the features of the male palp and female epigynum the new species can be assigned to Fage's III Group, Deeleman-Reinhold's marqueti group and Pesarini's microcymbium complex. All specimens were collected in the stony debris of Pugnetto caves (province of Turin, Italy), a calcschist cave complex, formerly studied by biospeleologists for the presence of several endemic species. All caves have openings into beech woods at an elevation of approximately 800 m. /// Viene descritta Troglohyphantes bornensis, una nuova specie delle Alpi occidentali italiane. A partire dalle caratteristiche del palpo del maschio e dell'epigino della femmina, la specie viene assegnata al III gruppo di Fage, al gruppo marqueti secondo Deeleman-Reinhold e, secondo Pesarini, al complesso microcymbium. Tutti gli esemplari provengono dal detrito delle Grotte del Pugnetto (Provincia di Torino, Italia), un sistema di grotte impostato in calcescisto, gi noto per la presenza di numerose specie endemiche. Tutte le grotte si aprono ad una quota di 800 m circa, in boschi di faggio.
3705266|The biology of Octonoba octonarius (Muma) was studied over a two year period of laboratory rearing and field observations. Under laboratory conditions the spider matured as a fifth or sixth instar. First nymphal instars still in the egg sac fed upon unecloded eggs and second prelarvae. Web construction and nutritive behaviors followed patterns recorded in the Uloboridae. Courtship and mating patterns differed from others of the family in that typically two serial copulations were followed by immediate sperm induction and two additional brief copulations. A chalcid, Arachnopteromalus dasys Gordh, newly described from specimens found in this study, whose larva is an egg predator, Achaearanea tepidariorum (C. L. Koch), and man's activities were the principal ecological pressures on O. octonarius populations.
3706280|An overview of the systematics of smaller arachnid orders (Opilioacariformes, Ricinulei, Palpigradi, Uropygi, Amblypygi, Schizomida, Solifugae and Pseudoscorpiones) is provided, along with data on numbers of recognized families, genera and species for each group. The micro-diverse orders, Opilioacariformes (1 family, 9 genera, 19 species), Ricinulei (1 family, 3 genera, 55 species), Palpigradi (2 families, 6 genera, 78 species), Uropygi (1 family, 16 genera, 103 species), Amblypygi (5 families, 17 genera, 136 species) and Schizomida (2 families, 34 genera, 205 species), are amongst the smallest of all terrestrial arthropod orders. The meso-diverse orders, Solifugae (12 families, 140 genera, 1,087 species) and Pseudoscorpiones (24 families, 425 genera, 3,239 species)-along with the Scorpiones (1,279 species) and Opiliones (c. 6,000 species) which are not dealt with in this contribution-are dwarfed by the three mega-diverse arachnid orders, Araneae (c. 36,000 species), Parasitiformes and Acariformes (with a combined total of c. 48,000).
3705483| Dyrines tenuipes (Simon) is a senior synonym of Architis vilhena Carico. Thanatidius proximatus Mello-Leito (= Thanatidius parahybensis Mello-Leito) is a junior synonym of Architis tenuis Simon. Sisenna Simon is a junior synonym of the genus Architis. Sisenna helveola Simon, the only species placed in Sisenna, is redescribed and figured as Architis helveola (Simon). A lectotype of the latter species is designated. Errata in a previous publication are noted. 
3705281|Natural diet of the oxyopid, Peucetia viridans, was analyzed over a ten month period. This spider is a euryphagous predator; of the 189 prey items recorded in the field there were 65 species of prey. Major diet items included species of Hymenoptera, Diptera, Hemiptera, Lepidoptera and Orthoptera. Conspecifics represented the fourth major prey species, but interspecific predation was found to be relatively rare. Phenological analysis of prey composition indicates that there is a large change in major prey taxa with time. Monthly prey composition probably reflects relative prey availability. The percent of adult males feeding in the field was not significantly different from that of adult females. Prey size exhibited a highly significant correlation to predator body size.
25654018|Although well studied, the role of spider webs in attracting prey and the role of web ornaments remain open questions. We carried out a field study to determine whether webs of Nephila clavipes (Linnaeus 1767) attract insects. Nephila builds large orb-webs with debris-decoration that host kleptobiotic Argyrodes spiders. We studied the potential prey of Nephila with sticky traps placed in two similar linear plots. One plot contained 20 Nephila webs, and the other was cleared of Nephila webs. We measured the number and size of the insects caught in the traps. We compared the size of the trapped insects with prey caught by Nephila and gleaned by Argyrodes. In the plot with Nephila webs we collected 314 individuals versus 105 individuals in the plot without Nephila. Species of Diptera and Coleoptera were captured most frequently. Four saprophagous families, Phoridae and Sciaridae (both Diptera), Staphylinidae and Elateridae (both Coleoptera), were more abundant in the plot with Nephila webs. We show for the first time under natural conditions that prey attraction is most efficient for saprophagous insects, suggesting that the debris-decoration in Nephila webs attracts this guild. We also found that the size of some insects captured does not correspond to the range of prey consumed by Nephila, but to that of kleptobiotic Argyrodes spiders. We hypothesize that the debris-decoration may be used by Nephila as a strategy to limit food competition with Argyrodes.
24717328|Each of the droplets that form an orb-weaving spider's viscous capture thread are composed of a viscoelastic glycoprotein glue core that is surrounded by an aqueous layer and supported by a pair of protein axial fibers. Low molecular weight organic and inorganic compounds within the aqueous layer confer droplet hygroscopicity, thereby maintaining the glycoprotein's adhesion and extensibility and ensuring that the axial fibers remain supercontracted. These materials also cause droplet volume to change in response to ambient humidity. This study examined the viscous threads of Argiope aurantia Lucas 1833, a species found in exposed, low humidity habitats, and Neoscona crucifera (Lucas 1838), a nocturnal species found in high humidity forest edge habitats. An earlier study showed the former species' threads to be more hygroscopic than those of the latter. When aged and exposed to chemical fixatives, the hygroscopicity of A. aurantia threads decreased, while that of N. crucifera threads was unaffected. Fixation eliminated the extensibility of both species' droplets. However, droplet adhesion, as measured by the deflection angle of a thread's axial lines just prior to droplet extension or, in the case of fixed droplets, droplet pull-off, was unaffected. These findings indicate that the compounds that confer greater hygroscopicity to A. aurantia viscous threads are more susceptible to chemical fixatives than those in the aqueous layer of N. crucifera droplets.
40233843|The morphology of the scent glands of Trogulus tricarinatus (Linnaeus 1767) (Trogulidae), a small, soil-dwelling opilionid species, was investigated by means of serial histological semi thin-sections. The glands constitute paired prosomal glandular sacs that open to the body surface via one pore (ozopore) on either side of the body, dorsally adjacent to coxae I. Consistent with the generally recognized organization of scent glands in Opiliones, an anterior non-secretory region of the reservoir could be distinguished from a posterior secretory area, the latter characterized by a thick vacuolated epithelium. However, there are several unusual scent gland features in T. tricarinatus. First, the ozopores are hidden, with each being surrounded by a kind of external secretion atrium formed by a dorso-lateral integumental fold (dorsal limitation), coxa I (ventral limitation), and a wall of projecting cuticular papillae (outer lateral limitation). A horizontal slit ("secondary opening") between the top of this wall and the dorsal integumental fold is externally visible. Secondly, no fluid, but solid spherical structures that may represent condensed secretion are found in the reservoirs. Thus, the secretion must pass through the external atrium before reaching the outside, perhaps as a gas produced by slow sublimation of solid secretion boli. Scent gland organization in T. tricarinatus, especially the findings of an external atrium around the ozopores, is not consistent with use in chemical defence, as is generally assumed for scent glands of Opiliones, but indicates a possibly non-defensive role.
4129801|Orb-webs constructed by members of the spider family Araneidae are composed of sticky and non-sticky threads deposited in a stereotypic fashion. This study examines how changes in a spider's nutritional condition affect the capture thread properties and architectural details of its web. It does so by characterizing the features of successive webs constructed by unfed spiders that were not allowed to recycle previous webs. The volume of a capture thread's viscous material and the threads' inferred stickiness decreases in successive webs, although the capture thread's extensibility does not change. The lengths of both capture thread and non-sticky thread decrease at similar rates in successive webs. The decreasing stickiness of capture threads reduces the stickiness per unit capture area. We did not detect asymmetry in the spacing of either spiral or radial threads of first and last webs, nor did we observe differences in the sizes of viscous droplets in outer and inner spiral turns. This suggested that these spiders assessed their silk resources before they initiated web construction and altered their behavior to produce a highly regular web of an appropriate size for their silk reserves.
3705435|Amino acid composition of major ampullate gland silk (dragline) produced by the mature, female golden orb-weaving spider, Nephila clavipes was determined. Several solvents were applied in order to solubilize the spider silk. Although several strong acids and bases were able to solubilize silk, the protein was apparently degraded by this treatment, as demonstrated by protein gel electrophoresis. Only a mixture of hydrochloric/propionic acid (50:50, v:v, final concentration 3N HCL/25% propionic acid) solubilized the silk while retaining the molecular weight integrity of the crystalline polymer. The results show that the major ampullate gland secretion is characterized by a high degree of small side chain amino acids (Ala, Gly, and Ser) and polar residues (Gly and Arg), comprising almost 75% of the total amino acids present. Contrary to published findings (Work and Young 1987), the composition of major ampullate gland silk appears to be uniform within the species. The composition of the secretion is discussed in relation to the known and implied functions of the major ampullate gland as well as in relation to the mechanical properties of the silk produced by orb-web building spiders.
3706005|Predation is of great ecological, evolutionary and behavioral interest. For our present purposes the primary reason for studying it is to determine the role of spiders in suppressing pest populations. Research approaches have included laboratory studies of preference, feeding rate, and fitness; direct observation of predation events or accumulations of prey carcasses; gut analysis; and field experiments. Laboratory studies provide some uniquely useful kinds of information but cannot give reliable indications of the "biological control potential" of spiders against a given pest. Direct observation can be powerful; it has provided the best data on dietary range and predation rates in the field. Gut analytical methods include the use of radionuclides, electrophoresis, chromatography and serology. Serological techniques are preferred: antibodies can be made specific down to the level of prey stage or instar, and assays are simple, sensitive, and reliable. They can determine the relative importance of different predator species, and may be the most efficient methods to document predation on eggs. Problems in quantitation remain. Field experiments have demonstrated unequivocally that spiders can effectively reduce pest populations and the crop damage they cause.
3705048|A suspected allometric relationship between chelicera length and body size in male Zygoballus rufipes was investigated. In order to minimize possible effects of geographic variation, all specimens available (24 males, 46 females) from a circumscribed area in south-central Michigan were studied. Power curve regressions of carapace width, carapace height, chelicera length, palp length, first leg length, and second leg length on a general measure of body size (carapace length) were calculated for each sex. The allometric relationship was expressed as Y = b
3705916|Comparisons of webs spun in the field when both sticky and non-sticky silk supplies were complete, when both were recently depleted, and when only non-sticky supplies were depleted show that Leucauge mariana and Micrathena sexspinosa vary design features of their orbs such as numbers of radii and sticky spiral loops, web area and proportion covered with sticky spiral, sticky spiral symmetry, and spaces between sticky spiral loops in response to changes in the amounts of both sticky and non-sticky silk that they have available. Spider size, spider weight and possibly website also influence L. mariana web designs.
3706039|The known range of the South American genus Monapia, previously known only from temperate South American forests, is expanded to central and eastern Argentina and Uruguay. A monophyletic group of five species with spinose forelegs is proposed, including M. angusta, newly transferred from Arachosia, plus four new species: M. charrua, M. guenoana, M. fierro and M. carolina. One new species, M. tandil (from Buenos Aires Province), is proposed to be the sister group of Monapia vittata. A data matrix with 43 characters for the 13 species of the genus (plus 9 amaurobioidine outgroups) was cladistically analyzed. Although relationships among species are mostly resolved, the basal phylogeny of the genus remains unclear. The previous hypothesis of relationships of Monapia alupuran is unsupported in this new analysis. Additional records are given for M. lutea and M. dilaticollis.
40233846|Prey are able to show adaptive antipredator responses in the presence of silk from the wolf spider Hogna helluo (Walckenaer 1837). Hogna helluo also is attracted to chemical cues associated with previously consumed prey. Consequently H. helluo may benefit by modifying its silk deposition when encountering prey cues to avoid detection. Silk is an important medium for female wolf spiders to attract prospective mates, whereas silk is putatively less important for males to attract females. Females also consume much more food than males after maturity; therefore, male and female H helluo may differ in the relative costs and benefits of silk deposition with respect to improved feeding efficiency. We tested whether field-caught male and female Hogna helluo changed silk deposition patterns in the presence of excreta deposited by domestic crickets, Acheta domesticus, (Linnaeus). Hungry male and female H. helluo were allowed to deposit silk for four hours in containers either previously occupied by five crickets for 24 h or devoid of cues (n = 36). We found no significant decrease in silk dragline deposition among males or females in the presence of prey cues; however, female spiders showed a significant decrease in the number of attachment disks produced in the presence of cricket cues whereas males did not. Our results suggest that Hogna helluo do change silk deposition patterns in the presence of crickets, but that these changes are sex-specific.
41317214|The Solomon Island endemic species of Charontidae, Stygophrynus (Neocharon) forsten Dunn 1949, is transferred to the genus Charon, thus forming the new combination Charon forsteri (Dunn 1949). The subgenus Neocharon is a junior synonym of Charon. The distribution of Stygophrynus is found to be restricted to Southeast Asia from southern Myanmar to Java, not spreading east of Wallace's Line. We provide a full description, diagnosis, and numerous figures of Charon forsteri.
20798582|Three species of the genus Sarax are recognized in the Papuan region. Among them, two species, Sarax newbritainensis, new species, from New Britain, and S. monodenticulatus, new species, from Waigeo Island are described. Sarax newbritainensis resembles S. willeyi in having the same number of denticles on the pedipalpal tarsus, but they distinctly differ from each other in body size, form of carapace, length of legs and number and arrangement of the trichobothria of tibia of leg IV. Sarax monodenticulatus is distinguished from the other two Papuan species by possessing a single denticle on the pedipalpal tarsus. The taxonomic status and the natural history of the species are discussed.
3706023|Vertical jumps of fishing spiders (Dolomedes sp.) from the water surface have been presumed to be evasive behaviors directed against predatory fish. We used high-speed videography to analyze the jumps of fishing spiders and then constructed a numerical model to assess the effectiveness of these jumps in evading predatory strikes by trout. Jump height (mean = 3.7 cm) and duration (mean = 0.17 sec) were similar across spider masses (0.05-0.66 g) but latency to jump increased significantly with mass. To accomplish jumps of similar height, more massive spiders had to generate more force during the propulsive phase of the jump than did smaller spiders; and the contribution of fluid drag to the total force used in jumping was substantially greater for large spiders than for smaller ones. Our model juxtaposing the jumps of spiders and the attacks of trout revealed that jump heights and durations were inadequate: only the most lethargic strikes by trout could be successfully evaded by jumping vertically from the water surface.
23610237|Direct behavioral observations, plus deductions made from studying the lines in recently built webs, showed that Linothele macrothelifera Strand 1908 lays swaths of lines in relatively stereotypic ways that differ during sheet web and tube construction. Sheet construction occurs in brief bursts interspersed with returns to the retreat. The legs are not used to manipulate lines; the spinnerets attach lines to the substrate and are probably used as sense organs. Asymmetrical use of the spinnerets during sheet construction results in an increase in the variety of orientations of lines in the sheet.
23610293|Relatively little is known about the food habits of neotropical harvestmen. We used Erginulus clavotibialis (Pickard-Cambridge 1905), a locally abundant species of cosmetid harvestman in Belize, in a food choice experiment. Individuals were presented with fresh fruit (pineapple) and live invertebrate prey (termites) in an experimental chamber. This species showed a strong preference for fruit, as 72% of individuals ate it first and 67% spent the most time in the fruit-containing portion of the experimental chamber. Five E. clavotibialis (13%) consumed termites, confirming this species' ability to capture and consume live invertebrate prey. Adult males located food more quickly than nymphs. Harvestmen feeding on fruit were also significantly more active than non-feeding individuals or those preying upon termites first. Opportunistic frugivory may be important to E. clavotibialis during times when fruit is available (e.g., wet season). We hypothesize that this species exhibits a generalist diet in the field.
3705602| Apomorphic characters of the Pisaurinae Simon 1898, here recognized as a monophyletic clade comprising 19 nominal pisaurid genera, are described. The genera Perenethis L. Koch 1878 and Tetragonophthalma Karsch 1878 are revised. Three Asian, two African and one Australian species of the genus Perenethis are recognized. The Asian species of the genus Perenethis comprise Ocyala dentifasciata O. Pickard-Cambridge 1885, Tetragonophthalma fascigera Bsenberg & Strand 1906, and Tetragonophthalma sindica Simon 1897. A lectotype is designated for the Australian species Perenethis venusta L. Koch 1878. Perenethis parkinsoni Dahl 1908 is regarded as a subjective junior synonym of P. venusta. The African species of Perenethis are Tetragonophthalma simoni Lessert 1916, and Tetragonophthalma symmetrica Lawrence 1927 with its subjective junior synonyms Perenethis huberti Blandin 1975, Perenethis lejeuni Blandin 1975 and Pisaurellus badicus Roewer 1961. A lectotype is here designated for the African species Perenethis simoni. Phalaea vulpina Simon 1898 is the only recognized species of the genus Tetragonophthalma with eight subjective junior synonyms: Tetragonophthalma balsaci Blandin 1976, Phalaea crassa Thorell 1899, Phalaea ferox Pocock 1899, T. guentheri Roewer 1955, T. lecordieri Blandin 1976, T. pellengea Roewer 1955, Phalaea thomensis Simon 1909, and T. wittei Roewer 1955. Cispius novus Caporiacco 1941 and Cispius tertali Caporiacco 1941 are both subjective junior synonyms of Cispius aethiopicus Caporiacco 1939, now placed in the genus Charminus (NEW COMBINATION). The genera Charminus Thorell 1899, Cispius Simon 1898, Tetragonophthalma, Afropisaura Blandin 1976, Perenethis, Maypacius Simon 1898, and Polyboea Thorell 1895 form a monophyletic group within the Pisaurinae, here called Perenethis genus group. The copulatory organs of this group are figured in detail, the vulval structures for the first time. Males and females of the poorly-known monotypic genus Polyboea are described, and their copulatory organs are figured for the first time. A cladistic analysis of the Perenethis genus group is presented. The Afro-Asian distribution of members of the clade Polyboea and Maypacius and the Perenethis-clade is hypothesized to be the result of independent range extensions during the expansion of suitable habitats between the Miocene and the beginning of the Pleistocene. 
3705163|The genus Leiobunum is widely distributed in the eastern United States and has been under investigation since Thomas Say described L. vittatum as the first North American species in 1821. Several species have been described by various workers since Say, but the characteristics used in describing them have often been highly variable and of little taxonomic value. Measurements such as total leg length and body length have been standard parts of species descriptions for many years. Such characters are often not definitive and may cause confusion and misidentification when derived from single specimens or small collections as has often been the case. The value of several measurements used in taxonomic descriptions of species of Leiobunum is evaluated in this paper, and the separation of two closely related species which have previously been collectively referred to as L. politum is demonstrated.
24717320|A female Micrathena duodecimspinosa (O. P. Cambridge, 1890) used the elasticity of her long dragline to repeatedly jerk her newly constructed egg sac up and down as she lowered it into the leaf litter below. Jerking may reduce the chances that the sac will be entangled in vegetation before it reaches the leaf litter or help insert it deeper into the litter, where it is visually camouflaged.
3706082|Terrestrial arthropod surveys and inventories frequently suffer from undersampling bias; common species are over-represented and rare species may be missed entirely. This study compared a rapid (3 days) and intense inventory of spiders from one hectare of a mature beech forest (Fagus sylvaticus) in Hestehaven, Denmark, comprising 8,710 adult spiders of 66 species to a previous, much more thorough, bi-weekly survey of two years duration from the same site that comprised 42,273 spiders (adult and juvenile) of 141 species. Non-parametric species richness estimators were used to assess the degree of undersampling bias in various data partitions. The current study used five experienced, four novice collectors, and five semi-quantitative collecting methods. Method and time of day strongly affected numbers of species and adults per sample. Collector experience affected numbers of species but not numbers of adults per sample. Despite the intensive collecting, number of adults per sample did not decrease over the course of the study. At the end of the sampling, 31 species were still rare in the sample (singletons or doubletons). Non-parametric richness estimators suggest that the actual richness of adult spiders in the study plot at this time of year and susceptible to the methods used was about 80 species. Species turnover between the two surveys (ca 23 years) was remarkably small: the two lists were 92% identical. The baseline study suggests that the rarity of 12 of the 31 rare species was artifactual (10 due to phenology, one to method, another to spatial edge effects). The rarity of the remainder is unexplained and by default is interpreted as undersampling bias.
3706352| Azilia leucostigma Mello-Leito 1941 considered by Mello-Leito as a metine (Tetragnathidae), is transferred to the gnaphosoid family Gallieniellidae, as the type species of the new genus Galianoella. The obliquely depressed endites, the flattened irregular posterior median eyes, and the conical anterior lateral spinnerets retaining a sclerotized distal ring, among other characters, clearly place the new genus in the family Gallieniellidae. Galianoella leucostigma is the only gallieniellid so far recorded from the Americas. This species has a specialized ant-preying behavior. Ant-preying may prove to be characteristic for all the family, as it was suspected in the Madagascan Gallieniella; and it may be associated with the modified chelicerae typical of the family. 
23610251|Coloration of the egg sacs of spiders varies widely to the human eye, both across and within taxonomic groups. These differences in coloration are expected with differences in the biology and ecology of different species. Here we measure the spectral properties of the egg sacs of 15 species in six families. Ultraviolet chroma, red chroma, and particularly overall brightness vary widely across and within taxonomic groups. We discuss the spectral properties of the silk of the egg sacs in the context of the physical characteristics of the silk, the reflective properties of the background, the environmental illumination, and the natural history and behavior of the spider species. In most cases, the spectral characteristics of the egg sacs seem to reduce their conspicuousness against the background and in those cases in which the coloration does not reduce the contrast in relation to the background, the low environmental light available may help to camouflage the egg sacs.
3705002|High-speed cinematography and experimental modification of morphological features were used to study the adaptations of lycosid spiders for capturing large, dangerous prey. Removal of the scopula hairs from the legs (by shaving) reduced the spider's ability to restrain crickets from escape. Observations suggested the importance for prey capture of other features of the legs: (1) a primarily flexor musculature for grasping strength; (2) an efficient hydraulic mechanism for rapid extension; (3) erectile spines for protection from the prey; and (4) relatively great length, permitting manipulation of prey at a safe distance from the body. Captures involving "de-fanged" spiders indicated that the chelicerae alone are sufficient for prey retention, neither fangs nor legs being needed during cheliceral grasping. Captures involving spiders prevented from using their chelicerae and fangs suggested that the venom apparatus is essential only for immobilization of already-restrained large prey so that ingestion can begin. Descriptive data point to prey capture being a family-specific behavior; consequently, there has evolved a diversity of guilds within the wandering spiders.
3705464|It has long been proposed that aggregations of Geolycosa wolf spiders form by limited dispersal from the maternal burrow. In this study I test for conspecific attraction and limited dispersal to account for the formation and maintenance of aggregations of Geolycosa xera archboldi McCrone, endemic to the scrub habitats of Highlands County in central Florida, USA. I found no evidence for conspecific attraction in either field tests or observations of natural relocation. I did confirm that hatchlings disperse a short distance from the maternal burrow. The distance hatchlings disperse is influenced by territorial interactions with siblings. Older spiders which were experimentally released also exhibited limited dispersal.
3705304|In order to determine the extent to which differences in web structure are correlated with divergence in diet, we collected and identified prey from the webs of two syntopic orb-weavers whose webs differ markedly in architecture. The species studied were the basilica spider Mecynogea lemniscata, and the labyrinth spider Metepeira labyrinthea. Two nearby allotopic populations were also compared. We determined the size and taxonomic category of the prey of both species, web height, and the type of vegetation supporting the web. The diets of syntopic populations were very similar. No statistically significant differences were found between syntopic Mecynogea and Metepeira in either the types or size of prey collected from the webs. Allotopic populations differed in these aspects of the diet, but the overlap was substantial. Metepeira usually placed its web higher and on less rigid vegetation than did Mecynogea. However, the overlap was extensive, particularly when the species occurred together. Syntopic basilica and labyrinth spiders were significantly more similar than allotopic populations in where they placed the web. Several authors have suggested that exploitative competition for prey between syntopic spiders has led to the evolution of differences in web structure as a means of competitive coexistence. The results of this study make it difficult to argue that avoidance of competition for food is the primary reason syntopic species have evolved different web structures.
3705884| The courtship behavior of the semi-aquatic Pisaurid fishing spider Dolomedes fimbriatus was examined in the laboratory. Male courtship was triggered by the presence of female drag-lines, presumably by a female sex pheromone since males did not respond with courtship to male drag-lines. Male courtship behavior included vibratory signaling (water surface waves), leg-waving, and following female drag-lines. Vibratory signaling was a major courtship component, and signals were produced at a regular rate (mean rate: 8.33  1.53 s, n = 97). Irrespective of whether females were mated or unmated, females were very aggressive towards males, and sexual cannibalism prior to copulation occurred in 6.6% of the female attacks on males (n = 76). The capture success rate of females depended on whether the male was attacked from a distance or from immediate proximity. The occurrence of sexual cannibalism of courting males by virgin Dolomedes females is discussed, and it is suggested that this behavior of fishing spiders may represent an adaptive female strategy rather than mistaken identity. 
25067883|Males of Drymusa spelunca Bonaldo, Rheims & Brescovit 2006 and D. colligata Bonaldo, Rheims & Brescovit 2006 are described based on additional material collected in their type localities: the FLONA Carajs, Carajs and Juruti, both in the state of Par, Brazil.
3705946|Rates of metabolism of jumping and crab spiders were evaluated to determine if life-style characteristics are associated with rates of energy expenditure in these 'sit-and-wait' predators. Resting rates of oxygen consumption were measured under standardized conditions in nine species of salticid and three species of thomisid spiders. These rates and those previously reported ranged from 50-70% of that expected for their size in these families. They are similar to those of other families of spiders with similar modes of prey capture, life span, and distribution. No significant differences in this measure were detected between the two families.
3705116|Sixty-six prey items representing six orders, 24 families and 30+ species were collected directly from feeding green lynx spiders, Peucetia viridans (Hentz). Prey items were identified and subjectively evaluated as to their harmful to beneficial effects in order to gauge the impact of P. viridans as a predator in the agroecosystem.
40233835|The genus Conothele of the trapdoor family Ctenizidae is reported for the first time from India with the description of two new species Conothele varvarti from Similipal Tiger Reserve in Orissa, eastern India and C. vali from Tawang district in Arunachal Pradesh, northeastern India. The genus was previously considered arboreal in habit but the present record reveals that these two species are strictly ground dwelling. Notes on the natural history are provided for both species.
20617589|Geolycosa grandis (Banks 1894) (Araneae, Lycosidae) is redescribed, and illustrations are provided for the first time. We propose that Geolycosa grandis be transferred to the genus Hogna Simon 1885. Hogna permunda (Chamberlin 1904) is synonymized with H. grandis. Notes are given on distinguishing H. grandis from similar species including H. helluo (Walckenaer 1837), Allocosa georgicola (Walckenaer 1837), and H. aspersa (Hentz 1844). Information on Lycosa permiana Scheffer 1904 is examined and the species is declared nomen dubium.
4129821|As a result of the Elymus athericus (Poaceae) invasion in the last ten years, a major change in vegetation cover has occurred in salt marshes of the Mont Saint-Michel bay (France). In this study, we investigated if the high conservation value of invaded salt marshes is preserved. Abundances, densities and flood resistance abilities of the dominant halophilic species Arctosa fulvolineata (nocturnal lycosid) and Pardosa purbeckensis (diurnal lycosid) were compared in both natural and invaded habitats. Elymus invasion involved both positive and negative aspects with respect to the conservation value of the salt marshes invaded: the P. purbeckensis population was clearly reduced in invaded habitats, whereas A. fulvolineata seemed to derive high benefits from the invasion. We supposed that abiotic parameters of the new habitat (mainly vegetation and litter characteristics) affected the two species differently with respect to their aut-ecology and their flood resistance abilities. Furthermore, food resources (estimated by different macrofauna density measurements) were likely to be reduced for P. purbeckensis in invaded habitats and unchanged for A. fulvolineata. Lastly, we hypothesize that individuals of P. purbeckensis are subject to increased interspecific competition (measured as intra-guild densities), whereas spiders from the same guild as A. fulvolineata have not increased in invaded habitats, resulting in an unchanged competition level.
3705806| Two new genera and a new species of Triaenonychidae are described from the valdivian wet forest of southern Argentina and Chile: Nahuelonyx, new genus, for N. nasutus (Ringuelet 1959), new combination and Valdivionyx, new genus, for V. crassipes, new species. The remarkable similarity in coloration of both species is mentioned. /// Dos nuevos gneros y una nueva especie de Triaenonychidae se describen del bosque hmedo valdiviano del sur de la Argentina y Chile: Nahuelonyx, gnero nuevo, para N. nasutus (Ringuelet 1959), combinacin nueva y Valdivionyx, gnero nuevo, para V. crassipes, especie nueva. Se menciona la llamativa similaridad de coloracin en ambas especies. 
3706004|A conceptual framework is presented for the study of the factors affecting the distribution, dispersal and abundance of spiders in agricultural systems. It is useful to consider how factors operate at three levels of a spatial hierarchy, namely micro-habitat, habitat and landscape. The size and distribution of spider populations are determined by factors influencing survival, reproduction and dispersal. Modes of dispersal vary in terms of the efficiency of sampling new habitats and the level of risk. A literature survey of proximal factors (micro-climate, habitat structure, disturbance, prey availability, predation, and territoriality) affecting micro-habitat usage by spiders showed that the relative importance of these factors varied according to spider species. Spider abundance and diversity were found, in general, to be positively correlated with environmental diversity at different spatial scales. Within-field habitat diversifications were found to be more effective in increasing spider populations when interspersed throughout the crop (e.g., polycultures and reduced tillage) than when spatially segregated (e.g., strip management). Two approaches (modeling and experimental) to studying the effects of landscape level phenomena on spider distribution and abundance are discussed. Manipulation of habitats at the edge of fields has not, in the main, resulted in increased spider density within fields. Opportunities were identified for increasing regional populations of spiders, and optimizing pest control, by management of the annual shift in the crop mosaic to maximize spider transfer rates from senescing crops to young crops.
3705313|Specimens of the aerial spiders, Pholcus phalangiodes and Latrodectus mactans, a ground spider, Pirata sp., and a harvestman, Phalangium sp., were placed on damp filter paper containing the entomogenous nematodes, Neoaplectana carpocapsae and Heterorhabditis heliothidis. Representatives of all four hosts were killed by the above nematodes. In Pholcus, Pirata and Latrodectus, the nematodes developed to the adult stage but did not multiply. In the case of Phalangium, the nematodes reproduced and formed infective juveniles. The present report establishes that under ideal conditions, neoaplectanid and heterorhabditid nematodes are capable of infecting, killing and with one host, reproducing in arachnids.
4489061|The new genus Xorilbia (Pseudoscorpiones, Ideoroncidae) is established for three species from the Amazon region previously included in the genus Albiorix: the type species X. arboricola (Mahnert), X. gracilis (Mahnert) and X. lamellifer (Mahnert). The new genus bears a peculiar structure on the arolium that is only found in a few other genera of Ideoroncidae. New locality records are presented for X. gracilis and X. lamellifer, including the first record of X. gracilis from Venezuela.
25434314|Grammostola schulzei (Schmidt 1994) comprises a medium-bodied tarantula. Recently the species was found in Sierra de la Ventana, Buenos Aires, Argentina, where it lives in burrows always made under stones in rocky hills. Our objective was to offer a detailed description of courtship and mating, heretofore unknown, and to determine, under laboratory conditions, where copulation takes place: in the open field as proposed for all species of Grammostola, or at the entrance of the burrow. We carried out two series of experiments, completing 40 trials (20 in open arenas and 20 in burrowing arenas). All males initiated sexual behavior after contact with female silk. Courtship involved palpation, palpal drumming, body vibrations, and leg tapping. Palpation and palpal drumming appeared to operate in different ways. Females displayed typical behavior of a burrowing tarantula, making rapid bouts of tapping vigorously with the first pair of legs and palps. The mating position observed was typical of mygalomorphs, in which the female raises her body up and opens her fangs, the male uses the tibial apophyses to clasp the female's fangs, and finally begins a series of attempts at palpal insertion. The smooth slapping during clasping may serve to keep the female passive and relaxed. The dorsal flexion observed during mating and the number of successful matings in open arenas suggests that copulation would take place outside the burrow. We observed sexual cannibalism during the interactions but in these cases, we registered no previous courtships by the males. /// Grammostola schulzei (Schmidt 1994) es una tarntula de tamao medio. Recientemente la especie se colect en Sierra de la Ventana, Buenos Aires, Argentina, donde vive en cuevas hechas siempre bajo piedras en cerros rocosos. Nuestro objetivo fue ofrecer una descripcin detallada del cortejo y apareamiento y poner a prueba bajo condiciones de laboratorio dnde tiene lugar la cpula. Se realizaron dos series de experimentos completando 40 en total (20 en arena abierta y 20 en arena con cueva). Todos los machos iniciaron el comportamiento sexual luego de contactar con la seda de la hembra. El cortejo involucr movimientos de palpar, golpeteos de palpos, vibraciones corporales y golpes con el primer par de patas. Las secuencias de palpar y golpeteos de palpos parecen actuar de maneras distintas. Las hembras mostraron un comportamiento tpico de tarntulas que habitan cuevas, realizando golpeteos rpidos con el primer par de patas y palpos. La posicin de cpula observada fue similar a la de otras migalomorfas, en la cual, la hembra eleva su cuerpo y abre los quelceros, el macho utiliza sus apfisis tibiales para engancharlos y por ltimo comenzar una serie de inserciones palpales. Los golpes suaves durante el enganche serviran para mantener una condicin pasiva y relajada de la hembra. La flexin dorsal observada durante la cpula y el nmero de cpulas exitosas en arena abierta sugiere que el apareamiento tendra lugar fuera de la cueva. Hemos observado canibalismo sexual durante las interacciones, pero en estos casos no hubo cortejo previo de los machos.
20788626|When crab spiderlings Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757) emerge from their natal nests their small resource reserve makes them vulnerable to starvation, while their small size makes them vulnerable to many predators. Choosing substrates that allow hunting opportunities as well as protection from predators may thus be life or death decisions. Here we investigate the substrate choice of crab spiderlings on goldenrod Solidago canadensis and Solidago juncea inflorescences in relation to a frequently encountered predator, the jumping spider Pelegrina insignis (Banks 1892). Flower heads of S. canadensis are smaller and more densely packed on branches of the inflorescences than the heads of S. juncea, but the two species attract similar numbers of small flies, the major prey of the spiderlings and jumping spiders. Crab spiderlings significantly preferred S. canadensis, both in initial choice and length of time occupied, as did their jumping spider predator. However, capture times of spiderlings by small jumping spiders (< 5 mg) did not significantly differ on the two goldenrods, although the preferred goldenrod, S. canadensis, provided superior protection from larger jumping spiders (>5 mg). Thus, although occupancy on the preferred goldenrod does not make spiderlings safer from all jumping spiders, it provides superior protection from large ones and may be the basis for the substrate preference of the spiderlings.
25067863|This study reports on some observations on the biology of the Central Asian solifuge, Galeodes caspius subfuscus Birula 1937. Solifuges were active only during summer months. At other times, they were found in burrows located in sandy soils on southeast facing slopes. They were strictly nocturnal in their activity patterns. Small specimens (juveniles) were observed to forage only in the bush using a "sit-and-wait" strategy, while large specimens (subadults and adults) foraged actively only upon the ground. Their prey included various insects including Trichoptera, Coleoptera, and Ensifera. Mating behavior appeared aggressive as several females consumed males either before or after copulation. The mating is described in detail. After mating, females deposited eggs in a burrow and guarded them, presumably until hatching.
3706205| Newly emerged fishing spiders, Dolomedes triton (Walckenaer 1837), can achieve rowing velocities as high as those of adults despite an approximately 600-fold difference in mass (1.7 mg vs. 1.1 g). In contrast, when velocity is measured in relative terms (body lengths/sec), small spiders move much more rapidly than adults, with
41317228|The family Araneidae is the third largest among spiders and the third most studied from a cytogenetical point of view. In spite of this, only 2% of all araneids have been karyotyped. The majority of araneids analyzed possess 2n = 24 chromosomes in males; however, the study of additional species could reveal unusual karyotype characteristics. Thus, the aim of this work is to analyze chromosomally, for the first time, six species belonging to three araneid genera from Brazil. The specimens of Alpaida leucogramma (White 1841), Alpaida truncata (Keyserling 1865), Alpaida veniliae (Keyserling 1865), Parawixia kochi (Taczanowski 1873), Parawixia velutina (Taczanowski 1878) and Wagneriana sp. were collected in Parque Nacional de Ilha Grande and in the municipality of Rio Claro. The gonads were treated with colchicine and hypotonie solution before fixation with Carnoy I solution. The results were 2n = 24 (11II+ XX) in A. leucogramma and P. velutina, and 2n = 22 (10II+ XX) in A. truncata, A. veniliae, P. kochi and Wagneriana sp. When the chromosomal morphologies were established, we observed telocentric chromosomes in all specimens save one female specimen of P. velutina. The univalent sex chromosomes were easily recognized on diplotenes. The unpaired metacentric element found in one female specimen of P. velutina with 2n = 25 probably arises by centric fusion/fission. Araneidae is a megadiverse family composed of ~ 3000 species distributed mainly in the tropics; thus the analysis of more species may provide new insights about orb-weaver chromosome evolution.
23610267|A new species of the genus Protoschizomus Rowland 1975 is described with adult males and females. We collected Protoschizomus franckei new species from Cueva del Diablo in the state of Guerrero, Mexico. Currently, the genus Protoschizomus is composed of eight species including the new species described here, of which five have been found inside caves.
3705132|The North American genus Cerogarypus Jacot is synonymized under the similarly distributed genus Pseudogarypus Ellingsen, together with a redescription of Pseudogarypus and a brief diagnosis of the Tasmanian genus Neopseudogarypus Morris. Cerogarypus agassizi Jacot is synonymized under Pseudogarypus bicornis (Banks). Pseudogarypus banksi Jacot, P. bicornis and P. hesperus Chamberlin are redescribed from type series and numerous new specimens; extensive distributional data are given. A new species, P. spelaeus, from Samwell Cave, California, is described.
4129842|A revision of the new endemic Australian genus Notasteron revealed two species, Notasteron Carnarvon new species (male), Notasteron lawlessi new species (female, male). The genus is characterized by a strongly reticulated, shield-shaped sternum with steep lateral margins and a posteriorly situated boss. The male palp has a semicircular and undulated distal tegular apophysis and the female epigyne has long, convoluted copulatory ducts. Possible relationships of Notasteron with genera of the Asteron complex, Habronestes, Hetaerica, Malinella and Storosa, are analyzed with NONA and also reconstructed using the Hennigian method. The results indicate that the new genus does not belong to the Asteron complex but is the sister genus of Hetaerica. Notasteron lawlessi is quite common and occurs throughout the eastern part of Australia, whereas N. Carnarvon is only found in the Carnarvon region of Western Australia.
41804570|We characterize, in both the laboratory and the field, the preferential thermal microenvironments of Paraphysa prvula (Pocock 1903) (Araneae: Theraphosidae), a mygalomorph spider that successfully inhabits the high elevation environments of the Chilean Andes. We studied 116 spiders. Their average body temperature in the field was 31.02  2.74C, similar to the laboratory preferred temperature of 31.7  2.31C, and higher than the ideal temperature of reproductive females, 29.34  2.81C. In non-reproductive spiders, we found significant associations between body temperature and the temperatures of the air, substrate and rocks; however, the strongest association was between body and rock temperatures. Similar results were obtained in reproductive females, but there the best predictor of the body temperature was air temperature in the shelter. In both cases, the air temperature remained below body temperature and well below the temperature of the rocks and stones. Both situations show the importance of behavioral thermorgulation and the mechanisms of heat transfer into the microenvironment in the body temperature regulation of spiders. Conduction from the environment, heat transfer by small convection currents, and radiation from the hot stones constitute small environmental cues that allow these spiders to maintain an optimal temperature. The selection of shelters meeting specific temperature regimes appears to be a key condition for the optimization of female reproductive success and survival of females and juveniles in a high elevation environment.
3706049|This study was designed to gain insight into the "migratory" life history component of the male brown tarantula, Aphonopelma hentzi (Girard 1854), and to determine if radio telemetry could successfully answer questions regarding the ecology of theraphosids. Tarantulas were equipped with radio transmitters and movement monitored using an antenna and radio receiver. Overall movement of males was in all directions and randomness could not be excluded as a factor. Individual males moved relatively large distances, up to 1300 m, and significant directedness was only found in three individuals. In addition, notes on habitat, ecology and behavior are presented.
3705004|Similarities between the mating strategy of the males of Phidippus johnsoni and models for optimal foraging are discussed. A predator encounters potential prey, each of which has an associated search time ( S
23610285|Establishment of communities is a dynamic process initiated by immigration. Therefore, movements of individuals within a metacommunity are important for maintaining and increasing species distribution. We present results of a small landscape-level experiment that manipulated habitat size and diversity. We examined the rates of colonization of spider species, and the richness, abundance and composition of foliage-dwelling spiders. Estimation of colonization rates was based on maximum likelihood. The experimental landscape was composed of five blocks with four patches (two large, 1 m2; two small, 0.25 m2). Less diverse patches had seedlings of one plant species, whereas more diverse patches had four species with diverse structures. Eight periodic censuses of spiders arriving in the patches were performed (average interval between censuses, 28 days). The initial composition of colonizers was significantly different from the final composition, but rates of colonization did not differ between sizes and diversities, or their interaction. Abundances of spiders were positively influenced by patch size. Compositions in each temporal sample were determined by differences in the species pool migrating and arriving at an experimental landscape irrespective of habitat size or diversity. Larger patches were more likely to receive more colonists representing a wider array of species than small patches. The probability of colonization was independent of patch size and diversity, which contradicts theoretical predictions. The results highlight the high colonization capacity of spiders on spatial and temporal scales.
3706098|We describe a new genus for a jumping spider that was originally placed in the large genus Menemerus Simon 1868, from which the new genus is clearly different. They were later reclassified as Icius, then as Pseudicius, and still later as Salticus. These initial classifications were repeated by a number of authors. The distinctive features of the male, and somewhat ambiguous features of the female, do not fit any known genus; and this species is here assigned to the new genus Hakka.
3705675|A new mygalomorph genus, Mexentypesa, and its type species Mexentypesa chiapas, new species, are described from southern Mexico. The presence of claw tufts in association with biserially dentate paired claws in both males and females allies the genus to both the theraphosids and nemesiids; its sister group is suggested to be Calisoga.
3706140|Competition among males is a major force shaping sexual selection. We investigated the male mating strategy of the widow spider Latrodectus revivensis, a desert species with an annual life cycle. Based on morphology of the sperm storage organs reported for female Latrodectus, we predicted that males should guard sub-adult or virgin adult females. In a natural population, we found that males were generally monogamous, cohabiting longer with sub-adult females approaching the final molt than with adult females. Nevertheless, both the duration and timing of male cohabitation were highly variable. Males were found with females from a few days before or after female maturation to over two months after maturation. Maturation of males and females peaked in spring, with a second, smaller peak in summer. Adult males that matured in spring were larger than those maturing later in the summer, while for adult females the pattern was reversed. We suggest that large males of L. revivensis that mature in spring maximize reproductive success by mating with virgins. Late males will gain greater reproductive success from mating with large, late-maturing females, but the scarcity of these females in the population at this season may make opportunistic mating with non-virgin females a viable strategy.
3706104|The egg covering behavior of the laniatorid harvestman Promitobates ornatus was studied. Females of this species laid egges isolated, on soil. After laying an egg, the female started scraping the substrate next to the egg, picking up debris, and attached the earth particles to the egg. After she scraped one area, she rotated around the egg, stopped turning, and restarted the collection of debris from another site. Alternation of scraping and changing body position was repeated twice or more until the female completed the egg covering. Data on egg size, duration of egg laying and egg covering, and duration of embryonic development are also provided.
3706360|In the theridiid spider, Anelosimus studiosus, most juveniles remain in their natal web, forming temporary colonies in which individuals cooperate in web maintenance and prey capture until they disperse at maturity. There is natural variation in age at dispersal, and subadult spiders removed from their natal webs build webs and continue to develop. To explore the costs and benefits of delayed dispersal, we compared the rate of prey capture and developmental rate for individuals in colonies and those isolated at the fourth instar. Rate of prey capture by colonies increased with colony size and age; this result was driven primarily by the enhanced capture of large prey by larger and older colonies. The presence of juveniles increased the overall productivity of webs, an effect which remained after the juveniles were removed from the web. Despite the overall increase in prey capture, per-individual prey capture decreased with colony size. The variance in prey capture success decreased significantly with colony size, but not with colony age. Spiders in colonies captured more prey per juvenile than singletons experimentally dispersed at the fourth instar; however, this did not result in increased development rate of colonial juveniles over isolated juveniles. These data suggest that juvenile A. studiosus benefit from delayed dispersal by acquiring more resources and acquiring them more steadily. The productivity of webs of females whose juveniles were removed at the fourth instar remained higher than those of similarly aged females who never produced juveniles. This suggests that delayed dispersal of juveniles enhances the resources which the female could allocate to her next egg mass.
23070806|Acanthogonatus centralis Goloboff 1995 is a Neotropical nemesiid distributed in hilly zones of central Argentina. The biology of the Nemesiidae is almost unknown. We describe the courtship and mating of A. centralis based on eight observed matings (three males and five females). Male courtship involved scratching and beating the ground. These behaviors have not been observed in other mygalomorph spiders and are here described for the first time. After contacting female silk, males stretched the web. Males manipulated their pedipalps and spasmodically beat their legs over the female. The mating position was typical of mygalomorph spiders. Females remained active during copulation by making body jerks and struggling. The body jerks of females could be stimulating the male to renew palpal insertion. In addition to describing this spider family's mating behavior, we also include some notes on their shelters. The tunnel-webs observed in the field had no branches, only one entrance, and a short burrow. Adult males are capable of constructing tunnel-webs, but they are quite different from those of juveniles and females, lacking the short burrow.
3705134|Phrurolithus fratrellus Gertsch and P. britcheri Petrunkevitch are similar species characterized by peculiar, asymmetrical epigyna. This paper redescribes P. fratrellus, compares it with P. britcheri, and presents data on the natural history of the former. P. fratrellus differs from P. britcheri by its smaller size, flatter carapace, and relatively larger eyes. These species are difficult to separate by epigynal characters. Specimens of both species may have either copulatory tube opening anterior to the other on the mid-ventral line. Pitfall collections indicate P. fratrellus is a species of field and second growth habitats. Males were collected from 17 April until the week of 17 July; females were collected from 12 June until the week of 25 September. A single male, collected between 23 and 30 October, suggests males overwinter as adults. Fluctuations in weekly collections suggest that this species is more active when the moon is waxing or waning.
3706259|Sociality and kleptoparasitism occur commonly in theridiid spiders. In both behaviors a number of conspecifics occupy a single web; gregariousness entails tolerance. Sociality has evolved several times in theridiids, but kleptoparasitism seems to have arisen only once. All four or more instances of sociality in theridiids are concentrated within a clade of relatively distal theridiids. This distribution of sociality suggests common cause, i.e. the presence of some characteristics that may facilitate the evolution of social behavior. The monophyletic genus Argyrodes, many of which are kleptoparasitic, is sister to the clade containing all social theridiids. Sociality and kleptoparasitism may thus be phylogenetically related in theridiid spiders; behaviors that facilitated the evolution of sociality could also have facilitated kleptoparasitism. Both may have their roots in maternal care.
3704996|The following names for suprageneric taxa are discussed, and for some of them an indication of their status is given: Dionycha, Trionycha, Dionychae, Trionychae, Dionychi, Trionychi, Hypochilina, Hypochilomorphae, Dipneumonina, Dipneumonomorphae, Quadrostiatae, Quadrostiati, Araneae, Aranei, Araneida, Araneidae, Argiopidae, Linyphiidae, Micryphantidae, Erigonidae, Scytodidae, Sparassidae, Eurparassidae, Amaurobiidae, Ciniflonidae, Drassidae, Drassodidae, and Gnaphosidae.
25434312|To date, the genus Neostothis Vellard is known only from its type species Neostothis gigas Vellard 1925, described on the basis of a single male and some females from Reserva Biolgica do Alto da Serra de Paranapiacaba, Santo Andr, So Paulo, Brazil. The type specimens, which should be deposited in the collection of the Instituto Butantan are lost. Specimens matching the description of N. gigas, collected in the type locality, allowed us to designate a neotype and provide more information on the genus and species. /// At a presente data, o gnero Neostothis Vellard  conhecido somente pela espcie tipo Neostothis gigas Vellard 1925, descrita com base em um macho e algumas fmeas da Reserva Biolgica do Alto da Serra de Paranapiacaba, Santo Andr, So Paulo, Brasil. Os exemplares-tipo, que deveriam estar depositados na coleo do Instituto Butantan, esto perdidos. Exemplares machos e fmeas de N. gigas, coletados na localidade-tipo, permitiram estabelecer um netipo e melhorar o conhecimento do gnero e da espcie.
4129800|The prey of the lynx spider, Oxyopes globifer Simon 1876, occurring on Salsola nodulosa (Moq.) plants, was analyzed. In common with other cursorial spiders, the percentage of feeding specimens in the population of O. globifer was low (5.5%). Males were observed feeding significantly less frequently than females and immatures of both sexes. After oviposition, however, the records of prey capture in eggguarding females also declined considerably. Oxyopes globifer is a polyphagous predator feeding on a wide range of arthropods: insects of the orders Hymenoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera and Homoptera, as well as on several spider species. The primary food was worker ants, which accounted for 62.7% of total prey. No other prey taxon was present in any considerable percentage. O. globifer captured prey ranging between 22.7 and 243.8% (mean 88.8%) of its own body length. Most frequently taken were medium-sized arthropods varying from 50-110% of spiders' body lengths.
40233844|In orb web spiders that recycle webs and thus minimize the material costs of web relocation, the characteristics of their temporal movement patterns between web sites can be used to examine otherwise hidden costs. Previous studies have shown that one such cost is the extra risk from predation. An unusually long average residence time at web sites is one indicator of cost. In some cases the pattern of movements also appears to be indicative of high costs, similar to those experienced by spiders that do not recycle web proteins. Nocturnal Poltys noblei Smith 2006 (Araneidae) spiders are heavily reliant on good camouflage in their exposed daytime hiding positions. Thus the risk of moving to an unknown site where the spider may not match its background may impose a large cost on relocation. The temporal pattern and frequency of relocations of P. noblei in northern Sydney are compared to those reported for other orb web species. Poltys noblei, on average, is found to have a long residence period, and the pattern of movement of larger individuals in this species is found to be random. These data support the idea that moving is costly for this species. Finally, the seasonal timing of movements is examined for P. noblei. It is found that most spiders relocate in spring but it is unknown if this is to seek a better web site or for the spider to avoid predation.
25067856|Twenty-two interactions between males of Loxosceles gaucho Gertsch 1967 were investigated in order to study its intrasexual interactions and level of aggressiveness. Aggression by lunges or bites was observed in just 22.7% of the trials and three behaviors were identified as aggression-attenuating mechanisms: a hug; fleeing, and a postural pattern (POS). Interactions took place in 59.1% of the trials and the pairs interacted using one or two behavioral patterns (vibratory and/or postural). The vibratory pattern (VIB) consisted of foreleg vibration, palpal drumming, and abdominal pulsation and was used by both resident and intruder opponents. The postural pattern (POS) was used exclusively by resident males and it was similar to the behavioral pattern of sexually receptive L. gaucho females; in these cases the intruder male responded using the VIB. In conclusion, the interaction between adult L. gaucho males is usually non-aggressive. The behaviors described in this study possibly promote group-living and help to explain the gregarious populations of recluse spiders. Intra-specific sexual mimicry can occur in these interactions, but this hypothesis requires further investigation.
3706185| We studied temporal variation in adult size and sexual size dimorphism (SSD) of seven hunting spider species, Ctenus amphora, C. crulsi, C. manauara, C. villasboasi (Ctenidae), Phoneutria fera, P. reidyi (Ctenidae), and Ancylometes rufus (Pisauridae) in a tropical rainforest, and one species from a relatively open vegetation habitat, C. minor, in central Amazonia. Size variation was great within and among field trips. Spiders were generally smaller in October (end of dry season) when compared with other months: adults of C. amphora, C. crulsi and C. manauara were significantly smaller in October 1995 when compared to February 1996; P. fera were smaller in October 1998 than in June 1998; and A. rufus were smaller in October 1998 than in August 1998. The temporal variation in size is possibly a result of low prey availability during the dry season. Six species had significant differences in prosoma length between males and females: C. amphora, C. crulsi, C. manauara and C. minor had larger males (which is considered rare in spiders), and P. reidyi and P. fera had larger females. However, considering an alternative index of size, the "rough area" (an approximate measure of the area of the spider as seen from above), the males were significantly larger for all species (up to 2.8 times in C. minor), because they have longer legs relative to their prosoma length. We suggest that selection for high mobility may be the reason for adult males with longer legs, and that the smaller species had higher degrees of sexual dimorphism in leg length because of the relative size of obstacles in the leaf litter. /// Estudamos a variao temporal de tamanho de adultos e o dimorfismo sexual de tamanho de sete espcies simptricas de aranhas errantes, Ctenus amphora, C. crulsi, C. manauara, C. villasboasi (Ctenidae), Phoneutria fera, P. reidyi (Ctenidae), e Ancylometes rufus (Pisauridae) em uma floresta tropical mida, e uma espcie em um habitat de vegetao relativamente aberta, C. minor, na Amaznia Central. A variao de tamanho foi grande dentro e entre excurses de coleta. As aranhas foram geralmente menores em outubro (final da estao seca) comparado com outros meses: adultos de C. amphora, C. crulsi, C. manauara e C. minor foram significativamente menores em outubro de 1995 comparado a fevereiro de 1996: P. fera foram menores em outubro de 1998 do que em junho de 1998 e A. rufus foram menores em outubro de 1998 do que em agosto de 1998. A variao temporal em tamanhos observada  possivelmente um resultado de baixa disponibilidade de presas durante a estao seca. Seis espcies tiveram diferenas significativas em comprimento do cefalotrax entre machos e fmeas, C. amphora, C. crulsi, C. manauarae C. minor tiveram machos maiores (o que  considerado raro em aranhas), P. reidyi e P. fera tiveram fmeas maiores. Entretanto, considerando um ndice alternativo de tamanho, a "rea aproximada" (uma medida da rea da aranha em vista superior), os machos foram significativamente maiores em todas as espcies (at 2,8 vezes em C. minor), porque eles tm pernas mais longas em relao ao tamanho do cefalotrax. Ns sugerimos que uma seleo para alta mobilidade pode ser a razo para machos com pernas maiores, e que as menores espcies tem maior dimorfismo sexual no comprimento das pernas devido ao tamanho relativo dos obstculos na serapilheira. 
3705510|Amino acid compositions are given for forcibly secured major ampullate silk (n = 59 from 4 subfamilies, 8 genera, 11 species) and minor ampullate silk (n = 11, 3 subfamilies, 6 genera, 8 species) of mature, female, orb-web-building, spiders. The compositions of major ampullate silk samples are neither uniform within species nor when taken from an individual spider, or even when taken from an individual spider during a single forcible silking. Chemical compositions of the two types of silk are correlated to a limited degree with their physico-chemical properties and with the taxonomic position of the spiders.
3706080| The taxonomic status of all species of Santinezia Roewer 1923 is defined, and a catalogue is provided. Santinezia lucifer, S. gracilis, S. onorei (all from Ecuador), S. furva (from Colombia and Venezuela) and S. hermosa (from Peru) are newly described. Santinezia biordi Gonzlez-Sponga 1991 is newly considered as a junior subjective synonym of S. serratotibialis Roewer 1932. Santinezia albilineata Roewer 1932, Goniosoma pavani Muoz-Cuevas 1972, S. benedictoi Soares & Avram 1981, S. decui Avram 1987, S. orghidani Avram 1987 and S. francourbani Avram 1987 are newly considered as junior subjective synonyms of Inezia curvipes Roewer 1916. Nieblia Roewer 1925, Chondrocranaus Roewer 1932, Macuchicola Mello-Leito 1943 and Carvalholeptes H. Soares 1970 are newly considered as junior subjective synonyms of Santinezia. Nieblia camposi Mello-Leito 1942 is transferred to Spinicranaus Roewer 1913. Santinezia albimedialis Goodnight & Goodnight 1943 is transferred to Phareicranaus Roewer 1913. Nieblia magna Roewer 1932 is transferred to Neocranaus Roewer 1913. Santinezia micheneri Goodnight & Goodnight 1947 is newly considered as a junior subjective synonym of Phareicranaus ornatus Roewer 1932. A character survey is done including newly discovered characters of genital morphology, patterns of colored marks of dorsal scutum and armature of male leg IV. A phylogenetic analysis of the species of the genus for which males are known is provided allowing the definition of three new species groups. Comparative descriptions are given of the penial morphology of one species of Ventrivomer, one species of Phareicranaus and eight species of Santinezia. Distribution maps for all species of Santinezia are given. The type locality of S. serratotibialis Roewer 1932 is corrected from Trinidad (Bolivia) to Trinidad (Trinidad & Tobago). 
3706305| Field observations of Homalometa chiriqui (Araneae, Tetragnathidae), a common habitant in coffee plantations in Chiapas, Mxico, provide biological information on this poorly known species. Collection data revealed several generations per year. The web architecture and microhabitat selection of young juveniles differ from those of older juveniles and adult females. Females deposit their eggs inside the retreat forming a straight cylindrical egg-rod. 
4129862|The male genital system of Solifugae is divided into three different parts: a) a common genital chamber, b) the paired tubular vasa deferentia and c) the long, thin testes. On each side, the vas deferens splits into two smaller branches resulting in the thin, extremely long testes such that one individual possesses four tubular testes in total. The epithelium of a testis consists mainly of a glandular part and of a germinal part surrounded by a small layer of muscles. In Eremobates sp., within the germinal part the sperm cells are groups of a few, probably four, mature sperm cells each surrounded by thin extensions of somatic cells. These somatic cells can clearly be distinguished from the cells forming the glandular part which contain large amounts of rough endoplasmic reticulum. Once released into the narrow testicular lumen, the spermatozoa float more or less individually in a proteinaceous secretion. Earlier stages of spermatogenesis could not be detected, suggesting that spermatogenesis may occur in the subadult male (not examined in this study). In general, the sperm is rather simple, representing a round or slightly elongated cell devoid of a flagellum. The relatively small and flat acrosomal vacuole is attached to the disc-like nucleus. The acrosomal filament penetrates the nucleus and is coiled several times around it. In contrast to species of the family Ammotrechidae or Karschiidae, for which sperm cells have already been described, the sperm cells of the Mexican Eremobates sp., which belongs to the family Eremobatidae, show no tendency to form any piles or well ordered groups in the lumen of either the testes or the vasa deferentia.
3705852| The semi-aquatic spider Dolomedes triton inhabits the littoral zone of ponds and lakes. During the mating season male D. triton perform displays consisting of leg-waving, single or successive jerks, and palpal drumming. The jerks cause bursts of concentric water surface waves which may provide information for the female. Jerk-generated waves are considerably regular in the time course, have a duration of 900  145 ms, and do not contain frequencies above 55 Hz. In contrast, terrestrial insects trapped at the water surface generate wave stimuli which are long lasting (in most cases > 2 s), irregular in the time course, and usually include frequencies above 55 Hz (Lang 1980; Bleckmann 1985a). Thus wave signals produced by male Dolomedes during courtship behavior lack "prey" (insect) wave characteristics, which may ensure that female Dolomedes and other surface dwelling predators do not regard the courting males as insect prey. 
3706109|Harvestmen Phalangium opilio regularly feed upon the carcasses of bees and moths discarded by crab spiders Misumena vatia Clerck 1757 hunting on flowers. I report one observation of a harvestman unsuccessfully attempting to secure a bee still being fed on by a crab spider.
24717275|I recorded diel and seasonal activity patterns and behavior of the brown recluse spider, Loxosceles reclusa Gertsch & Mulaik 1940 in a free-ranging synanthropic population in northwestern Illinois. Recluse spiders are sit-and-wait predators that spend 8590% of their nocturnal activity sitting motionless on a small network of silk they use for prey detection. Time not spent waiting for prey is typically occupied maintaining the web by laying down new strands of silk. Feeding and sexual behavior constitute a minute, but critical, portion of daily activity. Recluses were more active at night, but some were active during the day, especially in darker areas of the garage. Activity was relatively constant during the nocturnal hours. Recluse spiders became active in early to mid-May and ceased in mid-October. Beyond this, there was no consistent pattern observed in activity through these months. Sexual encounters were typically brief and similar to behavior reported in prior lab studies. Agonism was rare, but intraspecific predation was the most significant contributor to observed mortality. The most commonly captured prey in this population were spiders (Araneae, 25%), beetles (Coleoptera, 21%) wood lice (Isopoda, 15%), and crickets (Orthoptera, 13%). Recluse spiders were never observed actively searching for prey, live or dead. More than 80% of dead prey that were offered experimentally were not scavenged. Brown recluse spiders are not active scavengers; they are sit-and-wait predators that will take advantage of dead prey they happen to encounter during other activities.
3705046|Observations of 22 orb-weaving species of the family Uloboridae show that these spiders assume one of four basic resting postures as they hang beneath the web's hub. The primitive pattern found in Tangaroa and Octonoba is characterized by all legs being spread and about equally flexed, whereas in Zosis the protracted first legs grasp the web at nearly the same point. Uloborus species typically assume a more cryptic posture characterized by acutely protracted and flexed first legs. Dense setal tufts proximal to the abruptly flexed leg segment provide outline camouflage and conceal the extended, shorter second legs which no longer support the body. In contrast, Philoponella species lack leg tufts and assume a compact posture with first legs folded against the sternum and only the last three pairs of legs grasping the web. The significance of these findings for uloborid classification and phylogeny is discussed.
3705311|Two new species of Ixamatus-I. lornensis has a low, broad tarsal organ; I. rozefeldsi has a spinose cymbium-present characters previously unknown and probably plesiomorphic for the genus.
3706061|A new species of Phrynus, P. exsul, from the Indonesian island of Flores, represents the first member of the family found outside of the New World.
3706354| We describe the histological structure of the eyes of Misumenops pallens (Araneae, Thomisidae). We have carried out frontal, sagittal and transverse histological sections of the eyes. All the eyes have cuticular and laminar corneas and lenses. The anterior median eyes have two cellular types in the rhabdom; the remaining eyes have three cellular types. The anterior median eyes have a dark pigmented U-shaped mark in the middle of the retina. The indirect eyes have a dark pigmented band divided by a grate tapetum. The pathway of the optic nerves is also described. Our results suggest that Thomisidae may be a close relative of the superfamily Lycosoidea. /// Se describe la estructura histolgica de los ojos de Misumenops pallens (Araneae, Thomisidae). Se realizaron cortes de los ojos en seccin frontal, sagittal y transversal. Todos los ojos tienen crneas y lentes cuticulares y laminares. Los ojos medios anteriores tienen dos tipos celulares en el rabdoma mientras que los restantes ojos tienen tres tipos celulares. Los ojos medios anteriores poseen, en el centro de la retina, una mancha de pigmento oscuro en forma de U. Los ojos de visin indirecta tienen una banda oscura de pigmento dividida por un tapete de tipo "grate." Se estudia tambin el recorrido de los nervios pticos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que Thomisidae puede estar relacionado con la superfamilia Lycosoidea. 
3705187|This introductory paper on North American erigonine spiders reviews the evidence for the hypothesis that the erigonines form part of the family Linyphiidae, and maintains that a strict subdivision of the family into two phylogenetically pure branches is not feasible on current data. The structure of the male palpal organ is briefly described, and its importance in the taxonomy and phylogeny of the erigonines is stressed. Other characters used in erigonine taxonomy are briefly mentioned.
3705556|Two species of Barychelidae, Psalistops venadensis and Trichopelma laselva, are described from Costa Rica. These are the first records of this mygalomorph family from this country. Both species were associated with tropical wet forests.
3705214| The western North American phalangioid genus Trachyrhinus is redefined and diagnosed. Trachyrhinus favosus (Wood) and T. marmoratus Banks are redescribed and illustrated. A neotype for T. favosus and a lectotype for T. marmoratus are designated. Four new species from New Mexico, Texas and northeastern Mxico are described. A key to the species of Trachyrhinus is provided. 
23610282|Trapdoor spiders are challenging to sample using active searching methods because of their cryptic burrowing behavior. This poses problems for ecological studies and for gathering the data needed for conservation assessments. Pitfall trapping provides an alternative method that targets adult males as they wander from their burrows in search of females. Using pitfall trapping requires considerations of the timing of sampling within the year, the effects of environmental conditions on spider activity, and sampling effort required for a high probability of detecting species that are present at a sample site. To investigate these factors, pitfall-trapping surveys were conducted at several localities in Gauteng Province, South Africa. The results showed that trapdoor spider activity occurs in all seasons. Each species has a discrete period of activity ranging from a few weeks to several months in duration. Some species are active at different times of the year at different localities. Statistical analysis showed soil moisture as the only significant predictor of activity from amongst seven environmental variables, and the survey results indicate that trapdoor spiders are active under wet conditions following rainfall. Between two and seven nights of trapping are required for a high probability of detecting all species present and active at a site, using the trap design employed for this study with ten trap arrays per site. Trapping must be repeated at regular intervals throughout the year in order to obtain a near complete inventory of the species assemblage. The number of species collected ranged from two to eight per site, with most sites having six or eight species. Pitfall trapping yielded 1.2 3.0 times the number of species obtained by active searching at sites where both methods were employed. Guidelines for planning pitfall-trapping surveys of trapdoor spiders are presented and future research directions are discussed.
3705657|Fedotovia Charitonov is removed from the synonymy of the laroniine genus Eilica and placed as a valid member of the subfamily Gnaphosinae. Males of the type species, F. uzbekistanica Charitonov, are described for the first time, and the species is newly recorded from Kazakhstan and Mongolia.
20617602|We conducted a field study in September 2007 and 2008 to analyze the foraging activity, natural diets, and predatory efficacy of Tetragnatha javana (Thorell 1890) (Araneae: Tetragnathidae) and Neoscona theis (Walckenaer 1842) (Araneae: Araneidae) on selected prey. The relationship between body measurements (carapace width, leg length, total body length, and body weight) and web dimensions (capture area, capture thread length, number of radii, number of spirals, and mesh height) of both species was also investigated. Most of the observed T. javana constructed their webs between two adjacent rice plants, while N. theis placed theirs at the top of rice plants. Both species required approximately an hour to complete a web, which differed significantly from each other in height, diameter, and capture area. Both species constructed only a single web per day. Web building activity of both species was intense from 17:00 to 18:00, while prey-handling activity was high from 19:00 to 20:00. In both species, peaks of feeding were recorded just after the peaks of prey handling (21:00). The main prey orders caught in the webs of both species were Lepidoptera, Diptera, Homoptera, Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, and Orthoptera. The time required to reach and capture lepidopteran (adults of stem borer and leaf folder) and homopteran prey was similar for both species. However, the time required to reach and capture orthopteran (grasshopper nymphs) prey was significantly longer for T. javana than for N. theis. Capture area increased with carapace width, and capture thread length increased with carapace width and body weight, while leg length and body length did not relate to either of these web variables. The number of radii, number of spirals, and mesh height did not correlate with any of the body size measurements. We concluded that both species can be used effectively to reduce insect pests of rice fields.
41758957|A third troglobitic species of Brazil is described from three specimens collected within Gruta da Morena, located in the municipal district of Cordisburgo, Minas Grais. Eukoenenia sagarana new species (Palpigradi: Eukoeneniidae) is highly adapted to subterranean environments, corresponding to the most troglomorphic Palpigradi species described to date. This new species is very close to E. maquinensis Souza & Ferreira 2010, a troglobitic species recently described from Gruta de Maquin, located in the same municipal district. The differences and similarities between these two species and between E. sagarana and other species of Eukoenenia are presented.
3705228| The genus Hurius is redefined to include the male diagnostic characters. Males of Hurius can be distinguished by the unidentate chelicerae with four or five teeth on promargin and by the presence of two big retrolateral apophyses on the palpal tibia. Spinurius Mello-Leito, 1941 is newly synonymized and H. aeneus (Mello-Leito, 1941); a new combination is established. Males of H. vulpinus and females of H. aeneus are described for the first time. Two new species are described: Hurius petrohue from Chile and H. pisac from Peru. 
3705085|Web clumping by female Nephila clavipes is not a social phenomenon but rather a random process influenced by population density and number of suitable web sites. There is an uneven distribution of males in the webs of mature females, and it is believed that web clumping may actually be disadvantageous if a less attractive female constructs a web adjacent to a more attractive one. Larger females spin larger webs, so adjacent smaller females may suffer reduced feeding efficiency and hence reduced growth rate and lowered fecundity. Males attempt to mate with females when the latter are feeding, and in multiple-male webs, the males fight among themselves for females. If dominance hierarchies among males exist, it is predicted that they are only temporary, either because of inherent instability or because of male transcience.
3705627|Spectral sensitivities of primary and secondary eyes in the Theraphosid spider, Aphonopelma chalcodes Chamberlin, were investigated by recording intracellular receptor potentials from single photoreceptors. The responses of all cells were graded depolarizations, monophasic in waveform. All cells showed dual spectral sensitivities, with a primary peak near 500 nm and a secondary peak in the near ultraviolet at 370 nm. The 500 nm peaks were fit well by a Dartnall nomogram. Spectral sensitivity curves were similar under both dark and light adaptation suggesting the presence of a single photopigment. Intensity-response functions with white light showed sensitivity differences between primary and secondary eyes. Secondary eyes had greater sensitivity ranges and smaller slope coefficients showing them to be more sensitive than primary eyes.
3705070|The harvestman genus Liopilio Schenkel is revised. Its relationship to other harvestmen is briefly discussed. The male of Liopilio glaber Schenkel is described and illustrated for the first time. Liopilio yukon, n. sp., is described from Alaska and the Yukon Territory.
25434282|Comb-hairs on the fourth tarsi of males and females are a classical theridioid character, but they also occur in pholcids. Previous studies on Pholcus phalangioides (Fuesslin 1775) have shown that in this species the comb-hairs function in the context of sticky silk wrap attack just as in theridiids. Here we investigate pholcid comb-hairs in a comparative way, studying the tarsal hairs of representatives of 42 pholcid genera with the SEM. We found two principal morphologies, a simple and a complex type of comb-hair. We found two principal types of comb-hair distribution on the tarsus: in distal patches or in ventral rows, but intermediate types also occur. Character mapping suggests that simple comb-hairs are derived from complex ones, and that distal patches are plesiomorphic, ventral rows derived. We speculate that pholcid comb-hairs may be derived from hairs (the "accessory claws") that grasp silk in functional correlation with the median claw. In a female shock-frozen during wrap attack, the silk line passed through the notch of a comb-hair, but several functional details (silk grasping and releasing, function of different hair branches) remain unanswered.
24365309|The present study represents the second record of pre-ballooning behavior in Arkansas Ummidia Thorell 1875 (Ctenizidae). Mygalomorph ballooning is discussed and our observations are compared with previous authors' observations. Photographs and video of the behavior are included. Images and discussion are provided detailing genuslevel identification of the spiderlings.
3705068|In order to examine the effects of clearcutting on the spider community of a southern Appalachian forest, spider populations in a mature forest, an adjacent clearcut site, and two other clearcut sites were sampled during the summer of 1976 with four techniques: pitfall trapping, Tullgren funnel extraction of litter spiders, sweep netting, and hand collecting. Clearcutting resulted in a marked reduction in spider abundance and a small decrease in the number of spider species. Spider species diversity increased, owing to a marked increase in the evenness component of diversity. While clearcutting greatly reduced the abundance and number of species of web building spiders (both ground-dwelling and aerial species), there was apparently little or no reduction in numbers of hunting spiders. In addition, the number of hunting spider species increased. It is postulated that microclimate changes resulting from removal of the forest canopy and reduced litter thickness were primarily responsible for the decline in abundance and diversity of web builders.
3705580|Egg size was used to estimate the energy incorporated into egg production in a sample of 24 species representing 11 families. Egg mass scaled geometrically to egg diameter. Egg mass can be accurately estimated from the easily measured diameter of an egg. Comparison of egg sizes between populations of seven species common to Connecticut and Florida suggest egg size is species-specific. The constancy of energy density of spider eggs allows relatively accurate estimates of the energy incorporated into egg production using easily obtained data on egg size, number of eggs per clutch, and number of clutches.
3706122|On three separate occasions during the growth season four populations of the sheet web spider Linyphia triangularis were sampled, twice as immatures and once as adults. For the immature specimens, five linear size characteristics (length and width of the cephalothorax, length of tibia of the first leg, and length and height of the abdomen) were measured in the laboratory and compared with fresh weight. The best predictor of weight was abdomen length, closely followed by cephalothorax width. Cephalothorax width was used to compare the size of immatures with the adult size at time of maturity because the abdomen shrinks in the non-foraging adult males. Mean cephalothorax width was larger for males than for females in both immature and adult specimens. The difference increased from the earliest immature population samples to the adult samples. The relationship between cephalothorax width and abdomen length was linear and equal between the sexes over all immature samples. This means that there was no difference in the allocation of resources to body parts important to female fecundity (the abdomen) vs. body parts important to male fighting ability (the cephalothorax) between males and females. Selection for large male size thus seems to be greater than selection for large female size in this web-building spider, resulting in an overall faster growth rate in males. Males grow > 10% larger than females despite the distinct protandry in this species.
3706193|The jumping spider genus Thiodina in the United States is reviewed here and the common western species, T. hespera new species, is formally described for the first time. We present a species key for specimens north of Mexico.
4129882| Hesydrus palustris Simon and H. habilis (O.P.-Cambridge) are redescribed. Four new species are described: H. caripito, H. yacuiba and H. chanchamayo are described only from females, and H. canar from both male and female specimens. Hesydrus monticola Chamberlin is a junior synonym of H. palustris. Hesydrus bucculentus Simon is a senior synonym of Trechalea cezariana Mello-Leito. Hesydrus estebanensis Simon is transferred to the genus Enna O.P.-Cambridge. Hesydrus ornatus Mello-Leito and H. bivittatus Mello-Leito, known only from unidentifiable spiderling holotypes, are regarded as nomina dubia. Coincidence of geographic distributions of Hesydrus and Trechalea are noted. 
3705456|In this field study, I tested the insect-attraction hypothesis as one of the functions of stabilimenta spun by Cyclosa conica (Pallas 1772) by examining: (1) if stabilimentum-decorated webs trapped more insects, (2) if a larger web diameter was responsible for the higher insect-trapping rate in decorated webs and, (3) if the differential distribution of insects in spiders' habitats was responsible for the higher insect interception rates of decorated webs. The number of wrapped prey, web diameters and presence of stabilimenta was recorded daily from 13 web locations. The stabilimentum-decorated webs of C. conica trapped significantly more insects (150% more) than undecorated webs, but they had significantly smaller mean web diameter (19% smaller). Among web locations, there was no significant difference in their insect interception rates, whether the data were collected from decorated or undecorated webs. These results suggest that the higher insect-trapping efficiency of decorated webs spun by C. conica resulted from the presence of stabilimenta, instead of from larger web diameters or differential distribution of insects.
23048781|Most spiders are aggressive, socially intolerant predators; however, broods develop inside a common site and thus should benefit from restraining aggression at this time and until they disperse. I tested single and mixed-brood groups of Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757) (Thomisidae) spiderlings that had just emerged from their nests to determine whether they cannibalized other young under crowded conditions comparable to the immediate area of their nests, and if so, whether they distinguished between sibs and non-sibs. Young M. vatia provide an interesting test case, since some broods remain in close contact for a short period of time after emerging from their nests. Mortality remained low over one month in provisioned young under crowded conditions, and no cannibalism occurred in these individuals. Cannibalism remained low in most broods of unprovisioned young, even though most of them eventually starved over this time. Just-emerged spiderlings placed in the field for three days and then run similarly also showed initially low tendencies toward cannibalism. However, larger free-ranging spiderlings that overlapped in size with provisioned spiderlings in the study cannibalized freely when confined similarly to the other spiderlings in this study. During this period the spiderlings showed no clear evidence of distinguishing between sibs and non-sibs.
3705137|An alternative method of instar determination was sought by documenting femoral spination of successive instars of the Green Lynx Spider, Peucetia viridans (Hentz). Instars two through five were accurately determined by femoral spine number. Instars six and seven showed subtle, yet detectable differences in femoral spine relationships. Although instars seven and higher exhibit no easily perceivable differences in femoral spine relationships this spider is either mature or in penultimate stages in those instars. No sex differences in femoral spination were observed.
23048804|In sexually cannibalistic spiders, males usually only copulate with one female. This selects for male strategies to improve paternity success in their single mate. Male mating strategies can include genital damage during female attack in some cannibalistic orb-weaving spiders, where males are dwarf and females polyandrous. We explored whether sexual cannibalism is necessary for male genital damage in the silver spider Argiope argentata (Fabricius 1775) by performing mating trials with recently killed virgin females. We found that males can break off their copulatory organs without female intervention and spontaneously die during copulation. Results suggest that genital damage evolved in response to sperm competition in this species.
25067854|In this study we hypothesized that Grammostola rosea Walckenaer 1837, an active predator of large size that depends on its two paired book lungs for respiration, would have a refined low energy strategy based on its thin air-hemolymph barrier. The morphology of book lungs and the oxygen consumption at 20 and 30 C under normal and starvation conditions were studied. The oxygen consumption was low compared to that expected for spiders from the allometric relationship, 0.027  0.01 ml
3706223|Many environmental factors influence the composition of animal assemblages. For spider assemblages, plant architecture is an important variable. Here we examine the effects of various plant architectural attributes by using models of shrubs in which we control branch orientation (horizontal or vertical) and height above the ground (0, 10, or 40 cm). Guild membership, based on hunting strategy (jumpers, pursuers, ambushers, or trappers), was used to characterize spider assemblages. Five replicates of the six treatments (two orientations by three heights) were randomly placed in a 60 m by 50 m grid among big sagebrush in a shrub-steppe habitat and sampled at 3 week intervals from July-October in 1997 and 1998. ANOVA was used to demonstrate that not only do single architectural variables influence the distribution of spiders but also the interaction of architectural variables influence spider distribution. Differences in the assemblages of spiders on the models were the result of architecture differences. Jumpers selected horizontal, 10 cm models and pusuers selected vertical, 0 cm models. Trappers were most abundant on horizontal, 0 cm models.
24717336|Caves are peculiar ecosystems; they are most often small, isolated habitats that lack the energy that sunlight provides. Cave-adapted species, isolated from epigean (i.e., surface) selection pressures, have been discovered with aphotic adaptations like blindness, depigmentation, and enhanced extra-optic sensory systems. This evolutionary process, however, only occurs in a fraction of cave ecosystems. Many cave species, especially those in tropical latitudes, occur with epigean conspecifics with ongoing gene flow and epigean migration. This includes populations of the amblypygid Phrynus longipes (Pocock 1894), which occur in both epigean and cave environments. I hypothesized that cave and epigean populations exhibit behavioral variation to meet the selection pressures of their respective environments. I conducted open-arena and interaction behavioral assays to test for behavioral variation between populations. Assays revealed that cave and epigean amblypygids exhibited environment-specific behavioral variation. Cave animals were more vigilant and engaged in hunting behaviors, but were less active in general, relative to epigean conspecifics. Comparative modeling indicated that aggressive behaviors during agonistic interactions were the best predictors of environment. Indeed, epigean interactions escalated to physical aggression sooner and included longer weaponry displays than did the interactions of cave conspecifics. Trial design allowed for measurements of territorial behavior, which showed that residency effects were more profound in epigean interactions than in those of cave conspecifics. The high density of amblypygids in the cave population may have resulted in more tolerant, less aggressive behaviors relative to epigean conspecifics. Thus, these findings fit the ecological and demographic conditions of each environment.
24717283|Previous work has shown that jumping spiders are able to associate visual cues with shock. We tested the efficacy of vibration as an aversive stimulus. Phidippus audax (Hentz 1845) (Salticidae) were first allowed to choose between two video stimuli, a cricket and an oval. We then tethered spiders so they were oriented toward their preferred stimulus with their tarsi touching a platform, either vibrated by a motor (experimental group) or with the motor turned off (control group). Spiders were then given a second opportunity to choose between the stimuli. Experimental spiders were significantly less likely to choose the stimulus that they viewed during training compared to control spiders. Spiders stalked and ate prey soon after experiencing the training procedure, suggesting that vibration caused no lasting harm. In addition, freely moving spiders avoided a vibrating platform, supporting the assertion that the vibration itself is aversive.
3706353| Three Brazilian species of the genus Paradossenus F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1903 are included in this paper: Paradossenus minimus (Mello-Leito 1940), whose holotype was located and is here redescribed; Paradossenus corumba new species is described from Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil and preliminary data on its biology are presented. Morphological data and new records of P. longipes (Taczanowski 1874) are included. 
4129844|Poltys and the genera Cyphalonotus, Homalopoltys, Ideocaira, Kaira, Micropoltys and Pycnacantha have historically been considered members of the tribe Poltyini. There is little published information on most members of the group and their potential relationships in the context of recent advances in araneid systematics. Information is sought on possible relatives of Poltys. All araneid members of the group except Pycnacantha were added to the data matrix compiled by Scharff & Coddington (1997), which already contained Kaira. Homalopoltys was found to be a tetragnathid when males were identified and was not considered further. The full data matrix of 74 taxa and 82 characters was run in PAUP* and NONA. The resulting placement of Poltys was not well supported but it frequently occurred in association with members of a slightly modified version of the 'Hypsosinga clade' of Scharff & Coddington, including Kaira. Cyphalonotus may be placed close to Araneus and Ideocaira may also belong in the same area of the araneines. Micropoltys may belong in the sister clade to these two.
23048780|Temperature strongly affects spider metabolic rate. Consequently, quantifying a species' temperature-metabolism relationship is useful in evaluating consequences of choices that affect body temperature. Body size also influences metabolic rate, and body size in spiders is strongly impacted by feeding and reproductive condition. Using adult female crab spiders, Misumenoides formosipes Walckenaer 1837 and Mecaphesa asperata (Hentz 1847) (formerly Misumenops asperatus) acclimated to field ambient conditions, I measured standard metabolic rates (SMR) over an ecologically relevant temperature range (1040 C). I controlled hunger and reproductive condition of M. formosipes using starved (25 days post-feeding) or fed (7 days post-feeding) spiders, and virgin or mated spiders; in experiments with M. asperata, I used fed spiders of unknown reproductive status. Temperature strongly affected crab spider SMR, and both species showed similar temperature-SMR relationships. Mecaphesa asperata displayed equivalent temperature coefficients (Q10s  the factor by which a physiologic process changes with temperature) for SMR across the experimental temperature range, while M. formosipes had significantly higher Q10 at low temperature than at mid-range or high temperature; Q10s of the two species reflected previously determined impacts of temperature on hunting performance. Influence of hunger-reproductive condition on SMR of M. formosipes depended on how I accounted for body size; regardless of method, gravid spiders did not show elevated metabolic rate. Lastly, I combined crab spider SMR data with published SMR data to generate mass-metabolism equations for spiders; mass-scaling exponents approximated 0.67.
3705173|In the forested mountain areas of southwestern Canada, Leiobunum paessleri (Roewer) form overwintering aggregations in the twilight regions of moist caves and mines. Each aggregation consists of adults of both sexes and may contain as many as one or two thousand individuals. The opilionids congregate from August to October and disperse from April to May. Colder temperatures seem to increase the density of the aggregations. When dense aggregations are formed (up to 2.6 individuals per cm
3706281|Colonies of the social spider, Stegodyphus mimosarum, are philopatric and inbred, with limited dispersal capabilities. Colony founding events by mature males and females have been observed periodically. We set out to test the influence of food on the spiders' readiness to leave a colony. Thirty colonies (40 spiders in each) were established under laboratory conditions and confined within netting. For 31 days, 15 colonies were fed daily ad libitum, so that the mean amount of food available was greater than the mean requirements of the colony. The other fifteen colonies were starved. The netting was then removed, permitting emigration and movement from colonies was noted for two weeks. Following risk sensitivity theory, we expected more spiders to leave the unfed colonies due to starvation. However, a significantly higher absolute number of spiders left colonies where food was abundant. While fewer spiders left unfed colonies, more of these spiders died, such that the relative number of spiders remaining at the end of the trial was not significantly different between treatments. Even when they were starved, the decision to leave a colony was not based on a lack of food. Low food availability increased mortality, yet it did not alter the remaining spiders' decision to move. Therefore the decision to move is based on factors beyond prey availability, which may include the state of maturity of the spiders, the motivational state, the high cost of migration and reserves.
3706009|The density and diversity of the spider community has been closely tied to the structural complexity of the local environment. For instance, soil dwelling spiders increase dramatically when the litter layer is enhanced because there are more retreats and hiding places and because temperature and humidity extremes are moderated. Web-building spiders are directly linked to the configuration of the vegetation because of specific web attachment requirements. Both correlative and experimental data support a tight relationship between spider density and habitat structure. Most of the available data show that agricultural practices which enhance the structural complexity of the environment (such as intercropping, mulching, and conservation tillage practices) enhance the density and diversity of the spider community. The key question regarding spiders in agroecosystems is, of course, whether they are in any way suppressing the activity of herbivores. Some studies uncovered a strong link between habitat complexity, spider abundance and plant productivity; but others have not, and the mechanisms by which spiders could exert a top-down effect are not clear. More investigation into the specifics of how habitat structure influences the predator-prey interactions in agroecosystems is needed in order to truly understand and manage agricultural production in a responsible manner.
3706213|Presented here is a description of the cryptic, sand-covered eggsacs of Homalonychus theologus. Additionally, when this species is gently harassed, it adopts a rigid, paired-leg position which may be a defensive posture functioning in immobility and possibly mimicking cactus spines.
20788617|Ground-living spiders of different habitats in the Cabaeros National Park, central Spain, each under different management conditions, were studied to characterize their community richness and composition. Five different habitats were selected: Mediterranean forest, abandoned pine plantations and three kinds of dehesas or meadows (differing in their understory management). In three sampling periods, during two springs and one in fall (2001-2002), a total of 1,152 pitfall traps were deployed in five different habitats. A total of 3,801 adult spiders, representing 105 species from 24 families were collected, among which 13 are considered endemic for the Iberian Peninsula. Correspondence analysis and indicator species analysis showed that spider richness and assemblages differed considerably among the different habitats. The scrub dehesa had the highest ground-living spider richness. Twenty-three indicator species were identified for the different habitats, of which four are considered endemic for the Iberian Peninsula. Gnaphosidae have a high potential as indicators of habitat quality.
3706135|The females of Anapis castilla Platnick & Shadab from the state of Amazonas and Anapisona bordeaux Platnick & Shadab from the state of Rio Grande do Sul both in Brazil, are described.
25067891|Juvenile Araneus expletus often place a visually conspicuous, disc-like white silk stabilimentum on one side of the retreat where the spider rests during the day away from its orb. Placement of the stabilimentum at this site rules out a prey attraction function and argues instead that it may function to defend the spider from visually orienting enemies.
3705690|We studied the biology of the green lynx spider, Peucetia viridans, in South Carolina, with emphasis on the selection factors that maintain extended maternal care. Nocturnal predation on the clutch was greater than diurnal predation. Chiracanthium inclusum (Araneae, Clubionidae) was the primary predator of eggs and emerged spiderlings. After producing a fertile egg sac in the field, female P. viridans produced at least three fertile sacs in the laboratory. In the field, females produced a second egg sac if their first sac was lost early in the season. In contrast with other studies, spiderlings were unable to exit from about 74% of the egg sacs without the aid of the mother.
3705688| Two new species of the genus Philodromus infuscatus group. P. jimredneri, P. pericu and the male of P. coachellae from the Cape Region, Baja California Sur, Mxico, are described and illustrated. /// Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas del gnero Philodromus, grupo infuscatus: P. jimredneri y P. pericu, adems el macho P. coachellae de la Regin del Cabo, Baja California Sur, Mxico. 
25654007|Homologies of the tibial apophyses of Taira with those of other members of the subfamily Amaurobiinae are evaluated. The monophyly of the genus Taira and the phylogenetic relationships of its species are analyzed using parsimony. The genus Taira is supported by two putative synapomorphies: the presence of broad epigynal teeth and the distally originating tegular sclerite apophysis. A diagnosis and description of Taira and a key to its species are provided. Three new species are described from China: Taira qiuae new species (), T. sichuanensis new species (), and T. zhui new species ().
4129792|A new species of Cyphophthalmi (Opiliones) belonging to the Sri Lankan genus Pettalus is described and illustrated. Characterization of male and female genitalia and SEM illustrations are included, representing the first such analysis for the genus. This constitutes the first species of Pettalus to be described since 1897, although information on other morphospecies recently collected in Sri Lanka indicates that the number of species on the island is much higher than previously thought. The presence of eyes in pettalids is illustrated for the first time and the implications of the presence of eyes outside of Stylocellidae are discussed.
3705492| Wolf spiders in the genus Geolycosa are obligate burrowers and sit-and-wait predators which typically retain their first burrow throughout life. In the present study I document the activity patterns, burrow closure, and relocation rates of an exception to this pattern: G. xera archboldi McCrone, endemic to the scrub of central Florida. In census studies of five field plots I document mean relocation rates of up to 3.2% per day. The smaller size/age classes made up the majority of the relocating spiders. I found that individual spiders had their burrows closed on 26  7% of census days. These burrow closures lasted an average of 6.8  0.3 days, with 10% of burrow closures lasting longer than 14 days. 
3706221|Adult male animals are commonly believed to exhibit higher activity than other conspecifics, but little information exists to compare their activity with that of other conspecifics of similar size. Here we compare the activity of adult male and similar-sized juvenile female crab spiders Misumena vatia (Araneae, Thomisidae). Adult males moved farther and more frequently than juvenile females of similar size (fourth instar) that were not affected by impending molt. Juvenile females influenced by impending or recent molt did not move as far or as frequently as nonmolting juveniles, even though their exoskeletons were hard enough to permit rapid movement. A small sample of penultimate males, of similar size to the adult males and juvenile females, exhibited activity patterns similar to the juvenile females. All of these data indicate that the high activity level of adult males is not a simple manifestation of behavior that is solely a function of size. We suggest that the high activity levels of the adult males facilitate search for scarce, cryptic mates.
25434302|Plantations and secondary forests are becoming dominant components of many tropical forest landscapes. Yet we have an insufficient understanding of the value of these habitats for biodiversity conservation, and almost none for most arthropods in species-rich tropical forests. We sampled epigeic arachnids (Amblypygi, Araneae, Opiliones, Scorpiones, and Uropygi) in primary, secondary (14-19 years), and Eucalyptus plantation (4-5 years) forests in the Jari region of northeastern Brazilian Amazonia. We sampled five independent sites in each forest type between January and June 2005, collecting a total of 4824 individuals (3177 adults, 112 species), including 1864 adults (75 species) in Eucalyptus, 776 (60) in secondary forest, and 536 (72) in primary forest. We compared species richness, species-abundance distributions, and community structure, between the three forest types and identified the species that were characteristic of each forest type. Rarefaction analyses showed that undisturbed primary forest harbored significantly more species and a similar overall abundance as second-growth forest; while levels of species richness were similar between secondary forest and Eucalyptus. The species composition and abundance structure of arachnid assemblages was distinct in all three forest types. Considering all species sampled, 19% were only sampled in primary forest, 4% in secondary forest, and 19% in Eucalyptus. Most species sampled in plantation forests are known to be wide-ranging habitat generalists. Our data indicate that regenerating forests are not biological deserts (57% and 56% of species sampled in primary forest were also captured in secondary and plantation forests respectively) and can, therefore, help mitigate some of the negative effects of deforestation for epigeic arachnids. However, these replacement habitats do not provide a substitute for primary forest and may fail to conserve many of those species most at risk from extinction.
25067892|A manipulative experiment was done in corn fields and their adjacent forests using enclosures that restricted access to ground-dwelling spiders. Enclosures were either closed from the adjacent habitat but open to ballooning and ground-dwelling spiders (using holes cut in the side of enclosures) or were open plots (controls). This allowed us to test the role of ballooning compared to cursorial dispersal of ground-dwelling spiders within these habitats. A reciprocal substrate treatment was included in which leaf-litter was added to cornfields and removed from forests to test the interaction between mode of dispersal and habitat use. Ninety species were collected using visual surveys and with pitfall traps. More species were collected in cornfields, and more individuals were collected in litter-addition plots, but we uncovered no interaction between substrate treatment and enclosure type. However, enclosures that excluded cursorial spiders had fewer mature and immature spiders, suggesting that cursorial activity (at a small spatial scale) is an important mode of dispersal within both types of habitats.
20788634|The ribosomal internal transcribed spacer ITS2 is probably the most popular nuclear DNA marker used to examine relationships among and within species in animals and plants. ITS2 sequences have also begun to be used as DNA barcodes. ITS2, however, has rarely been used in studies of spiders. Here, I examine the potential utility of this marker for spider phylogenetics based on preliminary data for Anelosimus spiders and a brief summary of prior work. The secondary structure of ITS2 facilitated alignment of highly divergent sequences and indicated that secondary structure morphology might be phylogenetically informative in itself. Phylogenetic analysis of Anelosimus species was congruent with a prior study based on a combination of six mitochondrial and nuclear loci plus morphology regarding the deeper clades within the genus. However, ITS2 had insufficient variation to resolve relationships within species and among closely related species. Previous studies have also discovered relatively little within-species variation in ITS2. In sum, ITS2 is an easily amplified and sequenced marker that is underutilized in spider phylogenetics; however, it has limited uses at the lowest taxonomic levels and is not likely to be a universally useful DNA barcode marker.
4149965|Among the trogulid harvestman Trogulus nepaeformis (Scopoli 1763) collected from sixty localities in Slovenia and northeastern Italy we found many individuals with evidence of old leg injuries. In a few localities, injured individuals accounted for 30% of the total. In non-autotomizing trogulids, in vivo damage to leg articles is characterized by rounded regeneration of the stumps with pseudonormal terminal chaetotaxy, in some cases including a secondary claw. This damage, probably caused by shrews, was considered appropriate for analysis of the regenerational asymmetry, or RA, of legs. In 169 available regenerated specimens, the lengths of preserved articles on the damaged legs were compared to those on the undamaged ones. In the damaged specimens, the range of leg article RA was significantly larger in comparison to undamaged specimens. This is considered to be a direct consequence of the regenerative processes in the leg stumps. The damage was most frequent in 2nd leg, followed by 1st, 3rd and 4th, indicating that such wounds were not stochastic, and probably appeared during the forward motion of the troguli. The stomach contents of 204 shrews were examined and the remains of T. nepaeformis were found in two individuals demonstrating for the first time that shrews do feed on this species.
25434283|A new genus of Amaurobiidae, Himalmartensus, is described from Nepal, and includes three species: the type species H. martensi new species, H. ausobskyi new species, and H. nepalensis new species. Members of this new genus can be separated from other amaurobiid genera by the combination of the following characters: the presence of a colulus, a single chilum, smooth trichobothrial bases, and simple tracheal tubes. Both promargin and retromargin of Himalmartensus chelicerae have 5-8 teeth and the female epigynum is modified with long and looping copulatory ducts. The spinnerets of all three new species are described and tracheal tubes of H. martensi are examined. Spinnerets, colulus, chilum and tracheal tubes of Himalmartensus are compared to similar genera, including amaurobiids, agelenids, and cybaeids. Himalmartensus is defined as a member of the family Amaurobiidae because of its similarity to the amaurobiids Rubrius and Macrobunus.
3704945|Fernandezina birabeni Zapfe is transferred to Otiothops and renamed O. lanus because of a resulting secondary homonymy. A revised key to the genera of Otiothopinae is presented.
3705582|When disturbed, Uloborus glomosus either remain in position at the hub of their orb-webs, jump from the web, move to the edge of the web, or shake the web. The time of day influences which of these behaviors is expressed. Spiders tend to jump in the afternoon and the evening but not in the morning. In the morning they tend to move to the edge of the web or remain in position. The tendency to shake the web is approximately the same throughout the day. Ambient temperature appears not to be the principal factor explaining the differences in jumping, moving to the edge, and remaining in position. Historical differences in the activity patterns of various spider predators may have influenced the time-related expression of disturbance behavioral patterns.
4149967|We investigated microhabitat selection in the Amazonian whip spider Heterophrynus longicornis (Butler 1973). The probability of finding individuals of this species increased according to the diameter of the trees. Moreover, there was a positive correlation between the size of adult individuals and the diameter of the trees on which they were found. Our results also provide quantitative support for a previous suggestion that H. longicornis prefers large trees bearing buttresses and burrows at the base where the individuals hide during daytime. Since whip spiders prefer large trees, the anthropogenic disturbance promoted by selective logging or the degeneration of the forest structure due to fragmentation and edge effect may have a negative effect on the spatial distribution and, consequently, on the density and population ecology of H. longicornis.
3705191| Pheromone-stimulated male Heteropoda venatoria (L.) produce sounds during bouts of leg oscillations while coupled to the substratum by their tarsal adhesive hairs. No stridulatory organ is involved. Preventing palpal percussion and abdominal vibration does not eliminate primary sound production. Leg oscillation rates of 63, 83, and 125 Hz, roughly estimated from high-speed cinematographic samples of signalling, were within 1 SD of the mean frequencies of the lowest ( = 88 Hz) or highest ( = 146 Hz) frequency wave-trains, as indicated by oscillographic analysis of such sounds. These signals resemble and are analogous in origin to insect flight-sounds, the fundamental frequency being determined directly by the appendage oscillation rate. Hypotheses about the roles of vibration in these and other spiders, including araneids, are considered. 
3706283|Results from a 10 year survey of spiders in Hungarian arable and natural grassland habitats are cumulated in order to reveal the key characteristics of agrobiont species. We define agrobionts as species that reach high dominance in agroecosystems. The most dominant species, Pardosa agrestis, on average accounted for 40% of the total spider population in Hungarian arable fields. The presence of agrobionts led to a strong skew in arable spider community species distriibution. Regardless of the over-dominance by agrobionts, arable spider communities had a potential for very high species richness. The agrobiont segment of arable spider communities showed very little field-to-field or regional variation, i.e. the same agrobiont species occurred in all fields. Agrobionts were indicators of arable habitats, and were rare in other habitat types, but in many species preferences for specific natural habitat types could be shown. These natural habitat types were often strongly abiotically driven, frequently disturbed habitats. The life cycle of agrobionts showed synchronization with the arable crop-growing season. While many closely related non-agrobiont species had maturity and reproductive periods either earlier or later than the main crop vegetation period, agrobionts invariably reached adulthood and reproduced during that period. Association with frequently disturbed natural habitats and phenological synchronization with the annual arable disturbance regime are such traits that support the theory that agrobiont species are adapted to predictably ephemeral habitats.
3705420| Our objectives were to determine if Dolomedes triton from two populations, one with fish predators and one without, differed in growth and survival. Using a 2  2 randomized block design, equal numbers of spiders were reared over a six-week period in artificial pools in the presence and absence of a natural predator, the bluegill sunfish, Lepomis macrochirus, (Perciformes: Centrarchidae). Neither spider body size nor spider survival differed between populations. Survival of spiders in pools with fish was not significantly different from spiders in fishless pools. However, spider body size was significantly smaller in pools containing fish compared to spiders in pools without fish. No significant interaction between population source and the presence of fish was detected. We suggest two mechanisms for the reduction in spider body size: interference (i. e., avoidance of fish) and exploitative competition with fish for food resources. The reduction in spider body size is important because of the relationship between spider size and reproductive success (larger females may produce a greater number of offspring than smaller females; larger males may copulate with more females than smaller males). Because these spiders are found in wetlands areas where sunfish occur, our results suggest that these spiders may adjust to competitor/predator-rich environments through compromises in growth and development. 
3706095| The taxonomic status of the endemic South African flat rock scorpion, Hadogenes bicolor Purcell 1899, is reassessed, based on a study of the types and a large series of newly-collected specimens. Specimens identified as H. bicolor by previous authors can be separated into at least three species on the basis of morphology, each of which occupies a discrete, allopatric distributional range. In light of this new evidence, H. bicolor is redescribed and two new species, Hadogenes longimanus and Hadogenes newlandsi, are described. A key is provided for the identification of the three allopatric species, and their ecology and conservation status are discussed. The phylogenetic position of Hodogenes is discussed in light of a recent cladistic analysis, and the monotypic family Hadogenidae Loureno 2000 is synonymized with the family Ischnuridae Simon 1879. 
4149978|Suffasia attidiya was previously known only from females. This paper describes males collected from the type locality. Males of S. attidiya can be recognized by the following combination of characters: tibia with stout retrolateral apophysis; triangular dorsal cymbial extension; cymbial flange attached at its center to the cymbium; embolus with a base positioned under the proximal part of tegulum; long tapering, outwards pointing tegular apophysis.
4129832|Sexual dimorphism of locomotory organs appears to be common in a variety of arthropods, however, the underlying evolutionary mechanisms remain poorly understood and may be the consequence of natural or sexual selection, or a combination of both. I analyzed the activity pattern of seven cohorts of a wolf spider, Venatrix lapidosa, over four consecutive years. Males appear to be the more active sex in search for a mate as they show temporarily higher activity prior to the periods of female brood care. Morphometric data on leg length showed comparatively longer legs for males than females. Allometric leg elongation in all four legs of males arises only after the final molt suggesting its significance in reproductive behavior such as mate search. A comparative analysis of two Australasian wolf spider genera with different activity profile of females, Venatrix (sedentary females) and Artoria (vagrant females) provides further evidence that limb elongation in males mainly arises due to indirect male mate competition.
25067819|Because competition for resources generally leads to the spatial exclusion of species using similar resources, it is surprising that foreign spider species are frequently observed in or near the nests of the social spider, Anelosimus studiosus (Hentz 1850) (Theridiidae). In this study, we quantified the frequency of A. studiosus-foreign spider co-occurrence and completed experiments designed to explain the nature of the host-foreign spider species associations. Four families were numerically prominent nest associates of A. studiosus: Salticidae, Anyphaenidae, Araneidae and Tetragnathidae. These families and the Agelenidae (intermediate association rate) and (Philodromidae) (infrequent association rate) were subjected to further study. In choice trials, no foreign spider family discriminated nest silk or A. studiosus, itself, from the foliage the nest is built in. Predation events and maximum inter-individual spacing were significant outcomes of induced pair-wise interactions between host and foreign spiders for all families. Predation events were almost exclusively foreign on host. Field census results show that a close correspondence exists between the rate of loss of A. studiosus nests over time and the association rate of anyphaenids and agelenids at particular sites: these two families were the prominent predators on A. studiosus in laboratory trials. In reciprocal predation tests, juveniles suffered less predation in the presence of a mother; in the reciprocal trials, mothers also suffered less predation from foreign spiders when juveniles were present.
3706377|Surface ultrastructure of labial and maxillary cuspules was studied in eight species of seven different genera of Theraphosidae. Cuspule ornamentation was observed through SEM images and comparisons were made among labial and maxillary cuspules of different species and different zones of each cuspule. Ornamentation patterns were different on the anterior face of the cuspule with respect to the posterior face. A significant correlation analysis between cuspule size and body size was found. The systematic use and the probable functions of the cuspules are discussed.
3705083|Two spiders built orb-webs in Skylab under zero gravity only four days after release from transportation vials. The first webs resembled pre-flight controls in size and regularity, but the unusual distribution of radial angles and thinness of thread together with a probably low number of turning points in the spiral indicated a deviation from earth webs which can be attributed to the absence of gravity as a cue. Other web changes like a gradual decrease in regularity, diminished web size, and the spiders' decrease in body weight are identified as being likely consequences of starvation, Skylab stress and unknown circumstances not directly connected with zero gravity.
3705599| The 745 palpigrads (micro-whip scorpions) collected in a 12 month period in the soil (0-7 cm depth) of a secondary upland forest (
3704943|Philisca colulata Hogg, described in the Clubionidae, is transferred to the Anyphaenidae and newly synonymized with Gayenna strigosa Tullgren, for which a lectotype is designated. The Holarctic erigonid Diplocephalus cristatus (Blackwall) is newly recorded from the Falkland Islands, and is presumed to have been introduced from England.
4489058|A new monotypic genus, Mainosa, is described to accommodate the Australian 'shuttle- cock wolf spider', Mainosa longipes (L. Koch 1878) (= Lycosa mainae McKay 1979, new synonymy) as the type species. The male of this species is described for the first time. Mainosa longipes differs from other wolf spiders in having a the distinct color pattern of the abdomen, with white transverse bars and lines on a dark surface, and unusually long legs in males. Its genital morphology confirms M. longipes as a member of the subfamily Lycosinae. Mainosa longipes inhabits areas in South Australia and Western Australia with dry sandy soils in Acacia litter, where it constructs palisades around the entrance of its burrow. It appears to reproduce in winter.
3705485|Adult specimens of Kaira are rarely collected and the females are difficult to separate. The few specimens in collections represent 14 species, all American. Five species are new: Kaira cobimcha from southern Brazil; K. dianae from southeastern Peru; K. erwini from Peru; K. shinguito from northern Peru; K. tulua from Depto. Valle, Colombia. The female of K. hiteae is described and Araneus sexta is transferred to Kaira. Haliger is a new synonym of Kaira, with H. corniferus a synonym of K. altiventer. Kaira obtusa and Wagneriana minutissima are synonyms of K. gibberosa. Doubtful synonyms are Caira capra of K. altiventer, and Macpos monstrosus of K. gibberosa.
3705578| Dyadic interactions between adult females of Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris in the laboratory are described. Our results show motor patterns that are not very specific to the context, little ritualized fighting, resulting in a high frequency of cannibalism and a great variability in the duration of the sequences. /// Se describen las interacciones didicas entre hembras adultas de Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris en el laboratorio. Nuestros resultados muestran la existencia de patrones motores poco exclusivos del contexto y bajo nivel de ritualizacin en la lucha, que se refleja en un ndice de canibalismo elevado, as como una gran variabilidad en la duracin de las secuencias. 
23610233|Although our understanding of arachnid olfactory physiology remains relatively limited, studies continue to reveal the importance of chemical cues for many spider behaviors. Olfactory cues for detecting prey, navigating to foraging sites, or finding mates might be especially beneficial to cursorial and ambush spiders living in structurally complex habitats. Previous field results suggested that volatile plant chemical cues were important in Misumenoides formosipes Walckenear 1837 (Thomisidae) navigation and led us to design olfactometer bioassays to test this hypothesis in the laboratory. In our olfactometer trials, crab spider males were attracted specifically to the floral scent of Rudbeckia hirta (a species on which M. formosipes is commonly found in the field), but not to volatiles from foliage of the same plant species nor to volatiles from foliage of Morus rubra. Male spiders also failed to display any attraction to the floral scent of Daucus carota, even though they commonly reside on that plant in the field. Female M. formosipes did not move toward R. hirta inflorescences as a first choice over a control, although they did spend more time in the olfactometer arm with the R. hirta treatment. Males' use of olfactory cues to locate R. hirta inflorescences should increase encounters with potential mates, given that females in our population are found on that substrate more predictably than on any other.
3705854|The life cycle and male and female courtship behavior of the burrowing wolf spider G. turricola are described. Geolycosa turricola is found to have a two-year life cycle rather than the one-year cycle previously reported. Copulation occurs in late summer following a period of cohabitation of the mature male and a penultimate female. Spiders were collected during cohabitation and the courtship video recorded. Male G. turricola engage in a series of leg waves and body movements followed by a copulatory position face down in the burrow of the female. The courtship pattern is generally similar to that of other lycosids except for the lack of palpal waving and abdominal movements. It is thought that cohabitation provides a pre-courtship opportunity for sexual communication thereby mitigating the loss of some elaborate display elements.
3705245|An annual dispersal study of jumping spiders (Araneae: Salticidae) was conducted at Oklahoma State University, Stillwater. A total of 215 spiders, representing 12 gerera, were collected from two Johnson-Taylor suction traps. Of these, 190 (ca. 88%) were immature. The remainder included 18 males and seven females. Dispersal was detected each month of the year except January.
3706363|The same epigeic spider communities of North-west Jutland coastal heath habitats (Denmark, region Thy) initially surveyed by pitfall traps from 1977-79 were examined 20 years later (1997-98). The heath plots were open sandy areas growing into Calluna heath, and the more stable Erica, Calluna/Empetrum, Molinia vegetation types. They have changed vegetatively only a little in those 20 years from natural succession. Though the spider communities of all areas showed only minor changes from the passage of time, these were larger than the differences attributable to the different habitat types despite large differences in soil humidity and vegetation structure.
3706062| In males of several Uruguayan lycosid species of the genera Lycosa, Schizocosa, Aglaoctenus and Allocosa, we used Scanning Electron Microscopy to investigate the existence and the morphology of pedipalpal stridulatory-like structures. These kinds of structures only appeared in species belonging to the subfamily Lycosinae, and representatives of the Allocosinae and Sosippinae subfamilies lacked them altogether. Unlike European Lycosa species, all surveyed Uruguayan species of the genus Lycosa presented the character to some extent, but interspecific differences occurred in the relative size and development of the structure. Lycosa thorelli, L. carbonelli and Lycosa sp. showed a very well developed pedipalpal structure, which was smaller in Lycosa poliostoma. Schizocosa malitiosa also exhibited an only partially developed structure. A possible role of these pedipalpal stridulatory-like structures in lycosid systematics is discussed. /// Mediante Microscopa Electrnica de Barrido, hemos analizado la existencia y la morfologa de las estructuras pedipalpales de tipo estridulador en los machos de varias especies uruguayas de la familia Lycosidae (gneros Lycosa, Schizocosa, Aglaoctenus y Allocosa). Este tipo de estructuras slo est presente en especies pertenecientes a la subfamilia Lycosinae, mientras que las especies representativas de las subfamilias Allocosinae y Sosippinae carecen por completo de ellas. A diferencia de las especies europeas de Lycosa, todas las especies uruguayas del gnero analizadas presentan la estructura, aunque existen diferencias interespecficas en su tamao y desarrollo relativos. Lycosa thorelli, L. carbonelli y L. sp. presentan una estructura pedipalpal muy bien desarrollada, mientras que su tamao es menor en Lycosa poliostoma. Schizocosa malitiosa tambin posee una estructura slo parcialmente desarrollada. Discutimos una posible aplicacin de estas estructuras en la sistemtica de la familia Lycosidae. 
25434324|Copulatory organ breakage, in which a portion of the male's genitalia breaks off and remains in or attached to the female's genitalia may represent a male strategy of high investment in a single mating. Such a strategy is expected when mating opportunities for males are limited and competition for females is high. We studied costs and benefits for males as a consequence of male organ breakage in the white widow spider (Latrodectus pallidus O. Pickard-Cambridge 1872). In order to estimate the frequency and consequences of such damage we provided each male with four virgin females simultaneously in an outdoors enclosure. We recorded male mating success and loss of the tip of the embolus (the male intromittent organ) inside the female's genitalia for each male. In order to test the effect of the broken tip as a mating plug, we collected females from natural populations and observed the location of embolus tips inside their genitalia. We found that damage to the male organ was frequent but did not necessarily result in male sterility. From the field data, we found that the likelihood of a second embolus tip entering the spermatheca is significantly lower than that of the first tip, suggesting the possibility that the tip functions as a partial mating plug.
3705691|The genus Hentzia belongs in the subfamily Dendryphantinae of the family Salticidae. It appears to be closely related to "Beata" wickhami and the genus Anicius. Twenty species are recognized in this revision, occurring from Nova Scotia and Quebec in the north to northern South America in the south. The genus ranges along the coastal areas of Mexico on both sides of the continent north to Arizona in the west and through central Texas to Minnesota. Six new species are described. These are H. calypso from Jamaica, H. chekika from Florida, the Bahamas and Cuba, H. cubana from Cuba, H. pima from Arizona, H. whitcombi from Guadeloupe, Puerto Rico and a few other Caribbean islands, and H. zombia from Hispaniola. The genera Parahentzia Bryant 1943, and Maeviobeata Caporiacco 1947, are here made junior synonyms of Hentzia. Parahentzia insignita Chickering 1946, is made a junior synonym of Anoka parallela Peckham and Peckhan 1894. Anoka peckhami Cockerell 1893, and Wala albovittata Keyserling 1885, become junior synonyms of Icius vittatus Keyserling 1885. All of these are placed in the genus Hentzia. Balmaceda peckhami Bryant 1940 is found to be the female of H. tibialis Bryant 1940. The female paratype of Hentzia tibialis Bryant 1940, is found to be the female of Hentzia chekika n. sp. Finally Wala noda Chamberlin 1916, is transferred from Hentzia to Corythalia.
3705322|Data collected on life history traits of Peucetia viridans, representing three generations, were analyzed. A total of 61 females and their clutches were examined to determine the following: female mass, female tibia length, clutch mass, clutch size, mean mass per young, egg sac mass, egg sac mass per young, and relative clutch mass (an estimate of reproductive effort). Clutch mass, clutch size and egg sac mass are strongly correlated with female mass. Peucetia viridans has the reproductive tactic of producing young of optimum size, with the number of young varying in response to environmental pressures that influence female size, thus producing optimal reproductive effort. Relative clutch mass is also optimized and apparently not influenced by the variation in female mass, clutch mass or size. Egg sac mass per young is similar in small clutches and large clutches. These findings are discussed in terms of the species' life history characteristics.
3706335|We report on the natural history and web building behavior of the South American austrochilids Thaida peculiaris and Austrochilus forsteri, relatively basal lineages within Araneomorphae. Species of these two cribellate genera construct large, two-dimensional sheet webs with a funnel retreat. When combing cribellate silk, austrochilids use both fourth legs, like entelegyne spiders, and unlike Hypochilidae and Filistatidae. Furthermore, the alternancy of combing legs IV is determined by the leg III involved in the attachment of a cribellate segment; the leg IV ipsilateral to the leg III that made the attachment will comb the next segment, except for the first segment. This similarity to Entelegynae in combing with both fourth legs contradicts current hypotheses of basal araneomorph relationships and suggests that the Austrochilidae may be the sister group of entelegyne spiders.
3705862|The behavior of sighted and of blind male and female Rabidosa rabida paired in various combinations was videotaped and analyzed. When walking, neither sighted nor blind spiders could detect motionless conspecifics prior to contact. When motionless, blind males detected moving females at greater distances than they detected moving males. However, neither sighted nor blind motionless males detected very slowly moving females at any distance. These data suggested for R. rabida: (1) the effectiveness of visually and vibrationally cryptic locomotion, (2) a lack of form vision, and (3) absence of a close-range, air-borne pheromone. In both sexes, visual detection of moving conspecifics by motionless spiders provided for accurate orientation responses at greater distances than did mechanoreception. Nonetheless, blind females could orient accurately toward courting males at close range based on vibrations. Blind males showed courtship display when briefly contacted by another male, suggesting an inadequate chemically based sex-recognition mechanism. Sighted males showed courtship display after visually detecting a walking male, but did not do so in response to a courting male, i.e., mutual courtship did not occur. Blind males sometimes did perform mutual courtship, suggesting an inadequate vibratory recognition mechanism. Unlike salticids, these lycosids did not require vision to initiate either agonistic display or ritualized fighting.
41317219|Although the benefits of group foraging are important for evolution of sociality in spiders, the factors that influence group-level benefits of prey sharing in social spiders are still poorly understood. In the unusual transitional social spider Delena cancerides Walckenaer 1837 (Sparassidae), prey sharing almost certainly occurs occasionally among non-kin in the wild, and so we tested the effects of kin relationships and familiarity on the amount of prey consumed in this species. To determine whether the amount of prey sharing increased with relatedness or with familiarity, we fed treatment groups containing spiderlings of varying relatedness and familiarity a single prey item and measured the amount of weight gained by sharing groups. We found no effect of relatedness or familiarity on the amount of prey consumed by prey-sharing groups of D. cancerides. Increased duration of sharing, number and age of the spiders involved, and size of the prey item all increased the amount of prey consumed. The benefits of prey sharing in this species likely overwhelm any possible inclusive fitness benefits derived from kin discrimination in this highly outbred social spider. Hence, we reject the hypothesis that groups of kin consumed proportionately larger amounts of prey biomass than groups of non-kin, as proposed by Schneider and Bilde in 2008 with Stegodyphus lineatus Latreille 1817 (Eresidae).
20798595|Two spider species of the subfamily Coelotinae from Japan, Coelotes decolor Nishikawa 1973 and Hypocoelotes tumidivulva (Nishikawa 1980), are revised. We focus particularly on the female vulva structures, which are illustrated and described for the first time. Both species have unique genitalic structures compared with other coelotines. The female Coelotes decolor is similar to C. akakinaensis Shimojana 2000 and C. iheyaensis Shimojana 2000 in having long spermathecal stalks, but no species have been found to be similar to Hypocoelotes tumidivulva.
3706127|The spider family Zoropsidae is newly recorded for the USA, bringing the total to 68 families. Zoropsis spinimana (Dufour 1820), native to the Mediterranean region, has been established in the San Francisco Bay area since at least 1995. The identification and phylogenetic position of this species are provided.
3705450|Notes on the morphology and natural history of Central American Modisimus species are given. Thirteen new species from Costa Rica, Panama and Nicaragua are described. This highlights the greatly underestimated diversity of the genus in the region (only one species has previously been recorded from Costa Rica). New names are: Modisimus bribri new species, M. cahuita new species, M. caldera new species, M. coco new species, M. dominical new species, M. guatuso new species, M. madreselva new species, M. nicaraguensis new species, M. pittier new species, M. sanvito new species, M. sarapiqui new species, M. selvanegra new species and M. tortuguero new species. Seven further species of the genus are redescribed in order to ascertain their distinctiveness from the new species: M. dilutus Gertsch 1941 and M. pulchellus Banks 1929 from Panama, M. inornatus Cambridge 1895, M. maculatipes Cambridge 1895, M. putus Cambridge 1895 (which is newly synonymized with M. maculatipes), M. propinquus Cambridge 1896 from Mexico and M. texanus Banks 1906 from Texas.
3706292|Due to their widespread use as model systems and their reputation as living fossils, horseshoe crabs (Xiphosura) have been studied intensively by physiologists and paleontologists. The close phylogenetic relationship between horseshoe crabs and arachnids might also have been expected to inspire studies of xiphosurans by comparative arachnologists, but surprisingly few have been undertaken. Here, the first exhaustive survey of muscular anatomy of the Atlantic horseshoe crab is conducted as part of an on-going study of the evolutionary morphology and phylogeny of arachnids. Dissections of adult and immature individuals established 113 muscle groups comprising over 750 individual muscles, with several being recognized or correctly described for the first time. New insights into skeletomuscular evolution and phylogeny of arachnids were derived primarily from the axial muscle system. Specifically, it is argued that Limulus retains a box-truss axial muscle system like that of plesiomorphic members of other arthropod groups, that this is also a plesiomorphic condition for Chelicerata, and that arachnids are united by the loss of one component of this system, the anterior oblique muscles. Combined with comparative morphological and molecular evidence from previous studies, this study adds greater weight to the widely held view that, among extant chelicerates, Xiphosura and Arachnida are monophyletic sister groups and counters recent speculation that scorpions are more closely related to xiphosurans than to spiders, whipscorpions and other arachnids.
25067879|Although the temperatures at which the brown recluse spider (Loxosceles reclusa) is active have been described, no work has been done on lethal thermal limits that may influence the distribution of this medically important species. We tested the cold tolerance of L. reclusa at temperatures ranging from 3 C to -14 C. First, we tested spiders over brief 4-h exposures to a test temperature. Second, we tested spider tolerance to long-term, 30-da exposures to constant, low temperatures to simulate overwintering conditions. We also recorded temperatures beneath the plant litter layer and compared these to ambient surface air temperatures to estimate the effect of litter insulation. We then used the regression of ambient temperature to litter temperature to predict isotherms of litter retreats in Illinois during January, the month of lowest mean winter temperatures. Using the cold temperature lethal limits we found in the lab, we predicted a theoretical distribution of L. reclusa based solely on temperature that approximately matches its currently known distribution in Illinois.
3706237|Spiders were collected from the forest floor surface using pitfall traps (cans and buckets) and funnel traps at 12 study sites selected to represent the sandhill community of north and central Florida. A total of 5236 spiders was collected, which included 23 families, 92 genera, and 154 species. The largest number of individuals (528) was collected at Orange City and the largest number of species (48) was collected at the most northern site, Suwannee River State Park. Species richness, abundance, similarity and seasonal variation were compared among the study sites. Lycosidae comprised 75.2% of the total number of spiders collected. Four species were collected at all 12 sites: the lycosids Lycosa ammophila, Schizocosa duplex, and S. segregata, and the salticid Habrocestum xerophilum. Eighty-three (53.9%) of the 154 species were collected at only one site.
3706289|Charinus ioanniticus (Kritscher 1959) (Charinidae) is recorded for the first time from Egypt. Two specimens were collected from Burg El-Arab near the Mediterranean coast, north of Egypt.
4129884|Ants prey on salticids, and encounters with weaver ants (Oecophylla smaragdina (Fabricius 1775)) appear to be especially dangerous for many salticids. In the Philippines, Myrmarachne assimilis Banks 1930 is a salticid that mimics Oecophylla smaragdina. We tested for the abilities of four categories of salticids, plus M. assimilis, to survive in the proximity of weaver ants. The four categories were: (1) myrmecomorphic (ant-like species other than M. assimilis); (2) myrmecophagic (ant-eating species); (3) myrmecophilic (a species that is either myrmecophagic nor myrmecophagic, but is known to associate with ants) and (4) ordinary (species that are neither ant-like nor ant-eating, and are not known to associate with ants). The hypothesis investigated here is that M. assimilis has, compared with other salticids, especially pronounced ability to survive in close proximity with this particular ant species. The individual salticids used in our experiments had not had previous contact with weaver ants or any other ants. When confined with groups of 10 weaver ants, the myrmecomorphic, myrmecophagic and myrmecophilic species survived significantly more often than ordinary salticids, but Myrmarachne assimilis survived significantly more often than all other categories. When kept with groups of 20 ants, there was a proportional decrease in the number of salticids that survived within each salticid category. However, few salticids survived when confined with groups of 40 ants, regardless of category.
3706297|On the evening that it will kill its host, the orb-weaving spider Plesiometa argyra, the larva of the ichneumonid wasp Hymenoepimecis argyraphaga induces the spider to perform highly stereotyped construction behavior and build an otherwise unique "cocoon web" that is particularly well-designed to support the wasp larva's cocoon. Cocoon web construction behavior is nearly identical with the early steps in one subroutine of normal orb construction, and is repeated over and over. Usually all other normal orb construction behavior patterns are completely or nearly completely repressed. Experimental removal of the larva one or a few hours before cocoon construction would normally occur is sometimes followed by nearly normal cocoon web construction, and sometimes by construction of other highly altered web designs. The mechanism by which the larva induces these changes in the spider's behavior is thus apparently a fast-acting chemical, with effects that are manifested gradually. Partial recovery of orb designs sometimes occurred several days later.
4129840|The Appalachian troglobite Porrhomma cavernicola (Keyserling 1886) is redescribed. Porrhomma emertoni Roewer 1942 is a junior synonym (new synonymy). An unusual stridulatory organ with the plectrum on trochanter II and the striae on coxa I is found in both sexes of this species. Porrhomma cavernicola is widespread in Appalachian caves. By contrast, Appalachian Nesticus (Nesticidae) troglobites tend to be highly endemic. This despite the fact that both groups of spiders are web-builders that may be found in the same caves. Porrhomma cavernicola is added to a previous phylogenetic analysis of linyphiid spiders. Implications of this analysis for the phylogenetic structure of linyphiid spiders is discussed.
3705380|Scorpions sometimes capture and crush prey with their pedipalps and do not use their sting to inject venom. Experiments were conducted to test the hypothesis that sting use is selective, resulting in conservation of venom. Sting use in relation to prey size and activity was studied in two African scorpions, Parabuthus liosoma and P. pallidus. Restrictive use of the sting was observed in both species. Decreased use of the sting occurred with decreasing size/resistance of the prey. Also, prey were not stung immediately after being seized, but only after resisting capture. The scorpions did not sting non-resistant prey. These results support the notion that sting use depends upon the size, morphology and resistance of the prey as determined during initial interactions with the scorpion.
25067887|Templar incongruens new genus and species (Monoscutidae) is described and assigned to the subfamily Monoscutinae (Opiliones). It is distinguished from other Monoscutinae by different ornamentation, relatively shorter legs, and enlarged chelicerae in the male. A redescription of Monoscutum titirangiense Forster 1948 is also given.
3706065|Sticky threads improve an orb web's ability to retain the insects that strike it, allowing a spider more time to subdue these insects before they can escape from the web. The adhesive capture threads found in most orb webs feature small droplets of aqueous material. Inside each droplet, glycoprotein granules coalesce to impart thread stickiness. An independent contrast analysis of threads produced by the adults of five species (Leucauge venusta, Argiope trifasciata, Micrathena gracilis, Cyclosa conica, Araneus marmoreus) and ontogenetic studies of the threads of two of these species show that the volume of material in a thread's droplets is directly related to its stickiness. Models based on these analyses predict thread stickiness to within an average of 11% of the mean measured values using measurements of droplet diameter and distribution that are easily made with a compound microscope. This approach will facilitate the inclusion of thread stickiness in studies that examine the properties and performance of spider orb-webs.
20617600|Plesiochactas mitchelli Soleglad 1976 was originally described from a juvenile female collected in "Guatemala" before 1902. The species is redescribed on the basis of an adult female from a specific locality in the state of Chiapas; it is the first record of this species from Mxico.
23610283|We investigated the effects of area, age, vegetation structure and landscape features of set-asides on the spiders of the herb layer. We caught the spiders using a semi-quantitative sweep netting of the herb stratum in 160 sampling plots at 32 set-asides in the northeastern lowland of Brandenburg, Germany, from May through August 2001. We analyzed the data using multiple linear regression. The results revealed the following. 1) Vegetation height was the most influential factor increasing the number of species and individuals of particular araneid species at the set-asides. 2) Vegetation cover had no significant effect on the total number of species, but did affect the abundance of particular araneid and linyphiid species. 3) Time since the set-aside establishment and time since last management had no significant influence on the number of species, the number of individuals of particular species, the number of individuals of the ecological group "preferred habitat type." 4) Different types of vegetation structures were used by spider families and araneid species in different ways; the abundance of some araneids benefited from high (dense or sparse) vegetation, whereas linyphiids only benefited from dense vegetation cover.
3706343|We studied solar light cues that may be used by Lycosa tarentula (Linnaeus 1758) (Araneae, Lycosidae) for homing. Experiments performed under clear skies, under overcast skies, and under clear skies as seen through a plastic sheet (which changed the polarization from linear to elliptical), allowed us to discover which attributes of daylight were used by the spiders during orientation and homing. We found that patterns of linearly polarized light in the natural sky were sufficient to allow accurate homing by the spiders. The homing behavior of individuals having the anterior median eyes (AME) or all other eyes blinded allowed us to determine that AME were responsible for the reception of polarized light. Electroretinography of all eyes confirmed that only the anterior median eyes were differentially sensitive to the orientation of polarization in linearly polarized light.
3705267| The post-birth development of Vaejovis bilineatus Pocock was studied in the laboratory. Litter size varied from 17 to 26 among five litters reared. The average growth factor between successive molts for carapace length was 1.26  0.05; for chela length 1.28  0.05; and for metasomal segment V length 1.32  0.07. Although no specimens were reared from birth to maturity, it was determined by extrapolation and comparison with field-collected adults that there are six instars (five molts) to maturity. 
3704940|Fumontana deprehendor, n. gen., n. sp., is the first member of the family Triaenonychidae, subfamily Triaenonychinae to be reported from eastern North America. Anatomical features of the new species relate it both to the species of western North America and of the southern hemisphere. Incidental observations: The subfamily name Triaenonychinae should be attributed to Soerensen, not Pocock. Travunjoidea is the proper spelling for a superfamily name based on the genus Travunia.
3705159|Field data indicate that P. johnsoni is an euryphagous predator, whose diet includes organisms (aphids, ants, opilionids) sometimes considered distasteful to spiders. Other spiders are preyed upon, including conspecifics. Prey size tends to be one quarter to three quarters the size of the predator.
3705942|A new species of Theridiidae, Theridion ellicottense, is described (from one adult male and one de-epigynated female) from the Blue Ridge Province of the southern Appalachian Mountains in northeastern Georgia.
24717282|Predators can affect prey indirectly by eliciting changes in behavior, morphology, and life history. These nonconsumptive effects are often mediated by predator cues used by prey to avoid capture. However, predator cues can cause stress responses in prey that negatively impact survival and reproduction. We explored responses of the wolf spider Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844) to cues from the larger wolf spider Tigrosa helluo (Walckenaer 1837) and the ground beetle Scarites quadriceps Chaudoir 1843. We exposed Pardosa to cues from both predators and measured changes in body size, weight, consumption, and lifespan. We found significant effects of predator cues only on female longevity: females exposed to Tigrosa cues had shorter lifespans than those exposed to cues from Scarites. The lack of treatment effects on energy intake suggests that predator cues act through physiological pathways. Future experiments may uncover opposing hormonal mechanisms underlying the observed differences in lifespan.
3705133|Ceratolasma tricantha Goodnight and Goodnight, 1942, is redescribed in both sexes; descriptions and figures of most features of external morphology and some details of anatomy are given. Known distribution of the species is mapped. The arguments for the systematic rearrangement (Ceratolasma placed near Ischyropsalis in Ischyropsalidae) are expanded; some features of the latter genus are examined in comparison. The genus Ruaxphilos Goodnight and Goodnight, 1945, is considered a synonym of Ortholasma Banks. Questions of delimitation of and generic groupings in the family Ischyropsalidae are discussed.
3705979|The activity rhythms, feeding behavior, and reaction to light of two epigean (surface inhabitant) species of harvestmen (Iporangaia pustulosa and Iguapeia melanocephala) and of one cavernicolous species (Pachylospeleus strinatii) have been recorded. Both the epigean and the cavernicolous species showed a highly pronounced circadian rhythmicity. The cave species showed a bimodal pattern. Whereas the epigean species carried food away to feed, the cave species fed where they found the food. The time of reaction to light did not differ statistically between species. However, when exposed to light, the cave species walked much longer distances after it started walking. These differences are probably due to cave adaptation. The cave species may have to wander further for food (and maybe mates) because of the scarcity of resources and, therefore, show greater activity and also a tendency to exploit a resource wherever they find it.
23070791|When males have high reproductive investment and female quality is variable, male assessment of sexual partners is expected. Allocosa alticeps (Mello-Leito 1944) is a nocturnal wolf spider that shows a reversal in the sex roles and sexual size dimorphism usual in spiders. Females are the smaller, mobile sex, and they initiate courtship. Males construct burrows that serve as mating refuges and nests for female oviposition and cocoon care. In sex role reversed systems, male mate assessment is expected. Our objective was to test the occurrence of sequential male mate assessment based on female reproductive status and/or body characteristics in A. alticeps, discussing the results under sex role reversal hypotheses. We exposed males consecutively to virgin females and mated females and then recorded both courtship performance and mating occurrences relative to individuals' body characteristics. Virgin and mated females detected and entered male burrows in all the cases, and they were courted by males. However, copulations were more frequent with virgin females. The results suggest male mate selectivity in A. alticeps is based on female reproductive status. We discuss possible mechanisms underlying male mate choice in this species.
25067885|The male of the species, Trechalea trinidadensis Carico 1993, is described for the first time. The distributional range for this species is extended from Trinidad to Brazil.
23610262|Ballooning, a form of dispersal rarely seen in mygalomorph spiders, was observed in 13 individuals of an undetermined species of Actinopus under laboratory conditions. After ascending a stick, each spiderling initiated ballooning from either the horizontal lines between sticks or from the stick's edges. They became airborne by dropping and dangling from a dragline, which then gradually lifted and lengthened to 1015 cm in the breeze, broke at its attachment point, and served as a ballooning thread. This method of ballooning has also been observed in araneomorphs and other species of mygalomorphs, and this is probably a more primitive and shorter distance form of ballooning than that typically practiced by higher araneomorphs, which produce airborne silk lines that are pulled from the spider by air currents and are used either as spanning lines or as balloon lines that allow the spider itself to become airborne.
3705071|The three populations of S. abboti studied exhibit much higher densities than the two of S. rufipes. In S. abboti mating occurs in July, egg laying in August, hatching in September, and the fully equipped and self-sufficient third instar spiderlings develop by November. The tubes of S. abboti are proportionately longer and have a greater aerial length to underground length ratio than do those of S. rufipes. Other differences in tube architecture exist. Both species capture and feed upon a wide variety of ground arthropods and discard prey remains through the upper end of the tube. S. abboti males search for mates in daylight and appear to be generalized wasp-ant mimics. Our observations of S. abboti male behavior suggests that adult female tubes are marked by a contact sex pheromone.
3705431| The duration of the reproductive and courtship periods, the number of individual matings, and the number of egg sacs and their viability were measured in Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris under laboratory conditions. We found that the reproductive period is very short, lasting for a month from July to August. Both the males and the females can mate more than once. Female receptivity is related to age and reproductive state: receptivity is less in both old and previously mated females. Neither the size nor the viability of cocoons is related to the number of female matings. Our results are interpreted in relation to optimization of egg fertilization. /// En Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris, hemos medido la duracin del periodo reproductivo y del cortejo, el nmeor de apareamientos de cada individuo, el nmero de puestas de cada hembra y su viabilidad en el laboratorio. Hemos encontrado que el periodo reproductivo es muy breve, de alrededor de un mes, comprendido entre julio y agosto. Tanto los machos como las hembras se aparean ms de una vez, estando relacionada la receptividad de la hembra con su edad y con su estado reproductivo: tanto las hembras "viejas" como las previamente apareadas muestran una receptividad menor. Ni el tamao ni la viabilidad de la puesta estn relacionados con el nmero de apareamientos realizados por la hembra. Nuestros resultados se interpretan en relacin a la optimizacin de la fertilizacin de los huevos. 
4489051|The previously unknown sexes of 13 species of Linyphiidae and Theridiidae are described and illustrated for the first time. These include the following members of the Linyphiidae: Centromerus furcatus (Emerton) female, Cheniseo sphagnicultor Bishop & Crosby female, Coloncus siou Chamberlin male, Dismodicus alticeps Chamberlin & Ivie female, Floricomus praedesignatus (Bishop & Crosby) female, Glyphesis idahoanus (Chamberlin) male, Gnathonaroides pedalis (Emerton) female, Lepthyphantes intricatus (Emerton) female, Scyletria inflata Bishop & Crosby female, Sisicus penifusifer Bishop & Crosby female, Walckenaeria clavipalpis Millidge male; and two members of the Theridiidae: Thymoites minnesota Levi female and Robertus crosbyi (Kaston) male. Synonymy, new records, and comments on distribution, habitat and taxonomy are also given. The generic placement of Glyphesis idahoanus (Chamberlin) and Glyphesis scopulifer (Emerton) is confirmed.
25067850|Nine species of the genus Dysdera were found to occur in central Europe: D. adriatica Kulczyski 1897, D. crocata Koch 1838, D. dubrovninnii Deeleman-Reinhold 1988, D. erythrina (Walckenaer 1802), D. ninnii Canestrini 1868, D. hungarica Kulczyski 1897, D. lantosquensis Simon 1882, D. longirostris Doblika 1853, and D. taurica Charitonov 1956. Two species, D. dubrovninnii and D. lantosquensis, are newly recorded from central Europe. The original description of D. hombergi (Scopoli 1763), the name used for a common species of the genus Harpactea, probably refers to D. ninnii. We retain the name D. ninnii as a nomen protectum. Dysdera hamulata Kulczyski 1897 appears to be a junior synonym of D. maurusia Thorell 1873. This North African species probably does not occur in central Europe, and a previous record from Slovakia is probably based on mislabeled material. A review of all species of Dysdera named from outside the Palearctic region demonstrated that D. australiensis Rainbow 1900 and D. magna Keyserling 1877 are junior synonyms of D. crocata, and that D. bicolor Tatzanovski 1874 and D. solers Walckenaer 1837 are erroneously placed in the genus Dysdera; the former is likely to be an oonopid and the latter a caponiid. In central Europe, Dysdera spiders prefer xerothermic forests, particularly sites enriched by calcium. All species probably have biennal life-cycles. The karyotype of males of seven species were examined, and diploid chromosome numbers were found to be extraordinarily variable, ranging from 9 (D. crocata) to 40 (D. longirostris). Karyotypes consist of holocentric chromosomes.
25067861|We describe a simple protocol for digesting the internal soft tissues of spiders using an enzyme complex known as pancreatin. This technique is preferred over digestions with caustic agents because it better preserves the cuticle surface, allowing its study by means of scanning electron or transmitted light microscopy. In addition, we describe a technique for mounting spider body parts for scanning electron microscopy using an acryloid polymer.
3706170|Cribellar threads are primitive prey capture threads formed of thousands of fine, looped cribellar fibrils that surround larger, supporting fibers. Cribellar fibrils are produced from the spigots of an abdominal spinning field, the cribellum, which may be either a single, oval plate or a pair of medially divided plates. The number of spigots on a spider's cribellum is known to be directly related to the stickiness of its cribellar thread. Some spiders deposit cribellar threads in their webs as taut, self-supporting linear threads; others deposit looped threads along a supporting foundation thread. This study showed that the looped cribellar threads of Kukulcania hibernalis (Filistatidae) and Mexitlia trivittata (Dictynidae) were wider and stickier than linear threads produced by Waitkera waitakerensis and Uloborus glomosus (Uloboridae), respectively, that had the same numbers of cribellum spigots. Linear cribellar thread spun from the divided cribellum of K. hibernalis was both wider and stickier than linear thread spun from the undivided cribellum of W. waitakerensis that had the same number of spigots. A single cribellar plate of K. hibernalis and the cribellum of Siratoba referena (Uloboridae) had a similar number of spigots and produced cribellar threads with similar stickiness. Thus, both a spider's spinning anatomy and its spinning behavior affect the stickiness of its cribellar threads.
3706050|The desert spider, Diguetia mojavea Gertsch 1958, is a numerical dominant in many California deserts. We report data collected over a three-year period (1984-86) on reproduction, life history, phenology, microhabitat, prey, and dispersion for D. mojavea in the Coachella Valley, California. This is one of few studies to calculate life history table parameters for a desert arachnid. The average female laid 1065 eggs, while the net reproductive rate (R
25654020|Poeciloneta bellona Chamberlin and Ivie 1943 is removed from synonymy established by Saaristo and Tanasevitch (2000) and re-described using new and existing specimens from the Rocky Mountains. Incestophantes calcaratus (Emerton 1909) is re-described and transfered to Poeciloneta Kulczyski 1894 and a lectotype is designated.
23048789|The function of silk web decorations in orb weaving spiders has been debated for decades. The most accepted hypothesized functions are that web decorations 1) provide camouflage against predators, 2) are an advertisement for vertebrates to avoid web damage, or 3) increase the attraction of prey to the web. Most studies have focused on only a few genera, Argiope being the most common. In this study, I evaluated the prey attraction hypothesis of silk decorations for a species of a poorly studied genus in this topic, Micrathena sexpinosa Hahn 1822. I used a web-choice experiment in which I presented empty or web-bearing frames at the end of a tunnel to stingless bees (Tetragonisca angustula). This frame-choice experiment consisted of the following comparisons: decorated web vs. empty frame, decorated web vs. undecorated web, and undecorated web vs. empty frame. Webs with decoration intercepted significantly more bees than empty frames and undecorated webs. Therefore, the decorations of Micrathena sexpinosa might play a role in increasing foraging success.
3705982|Sampling methods and times can misrepresent components of spider assemblages found in tree crops. I collected 2561 spiders, including 20 families, 77 genera and 140 species, from inland and coastal south-east Queensland citrus orchards maintained under Integrated Pest Management programs. Spider assemblages, collected diurnally and nocturnally using vacuum and pit-trap sampling methods over four seasonal periods (spring, summer, autumn and winter), were compared using Simpson and Shannon-Wiener diversity indices and Morisita-Horn similarity index. Significantly different spider assemblages were collected by the two sampling methods in all orchards and seasons. Nocturnal and diurnal sample data differed for spider abundance (similarity) and diversity for several orchards. These results indicate the need to conduct nocturnal and diurnal sampling using a combination of sampling methods to reduce misinterpretation of the composition of spider assemblages. Such misinterpretations may underestimate the predatory importance of spiders in agricultural ecosystems.
3705498|Spiders of the genus Lutica are fossorial inhabitants of coastal dunes of southern California, Baja California and the California Channel Islands. They live in silk-lined burrows concentrated beneath dune vegetation. Lutica are sit-and-wait predators that subdue insects that walk near or over burrows. They are sedentary and do not engage in aerial dispersal via ballooning. Adult males abandon their burrows during the late summer and early fall to wander in search of females. Females produce eggsacs and guard them till they die; spiderlings emerge in the spring. Dune trapdoor spiders (Aptostichus simus) prey on Lutica, while the larvae of a therevid fly are external parasites.
3706044| To contribute to a depuration of the species-level taxomomy in the Gonyleptidae Pachylinae, the following synonymies are proposed: Discocyrtus minutus Roewer 1913 = Discocyrtus testudineus (Holmberg 1876); Discocyrtus spinosus Roewer 1916 and Discocyrtus exceptionalis Mello-Leito 1933 = Discocyrtus prospicuus (Holmberg 1876); Pachylus spinosus Canestrini 1888 (currently in Pachyloides) = Discocyrtus dilatatus Srensen 1884; Canalsia delicata Mello-Leito 1930 (removed from the synonymy of Pachyloides iheringi Roewer 1913) and Pachyloides aelleni Silhav 1979 = Pachyloides thorellii Holmberg 1878. All citations of Discocyrtus affinis Roewer 1913 from Argentina are referred to D. prospicuus (the full synonymy is suspected but not formally proposed). References of P. iheringi from Argentina are determined to be P. thorellii. Comments on the type material, the type localities and on misidentifications of previous authors are included. /// A fin de contribuir a una depuracin taxonmica en Gonyleptidae Pachylinae, se proponen las siguientes sinonimias: Discocyrtus minutus Roewer 1913 = Discocyrtus testudineus (Holmberg 1876); Discocyrtus spinosus Roewer 1916 y Discocyrtus exceptionalis Mello-Leito 1933 = Discocyrtus prospicuus (Holmberg 1876); Pachylus spinosus Canestrini 1888 (hasta ahora en Pachyloides) = Discocyrtus dilatatus Srensen 1884; Canalsia delicata Mello-Leito 1930 (excluida de la sinonimia de Pachyloides iheringi Roewer 1913) y Pachyloides aelleni Silhav 1979 = Pachyloides thorellii Holmberg 1878. Todas las referencias de Discocyrtus affinis Roewer 1913 para Argentina son referidas a D. prospicuus (se sospecha la sinonimia plena de ambas especies, pero no se la propone formalmente). Se determina que las citas de P. iheringi para Argentina corresponden a P. thorellii. Se incluyen comentarios sobre el material tpico, las localidades tipo y sobre los errores de identificacin de autores previos. 
3706358|Two high density lipoprotein fractions (
20788625|The presence and origin of the mygalomorph spider genus Ummidia Thorell 1875 in the western Mediterranean region is reconsidered. The traditional idea, expressed in the works of Walckenaer and Simon, that Ummidia is a recent American import in the Mediterranean region, is opposed by the observation that at least four distinct Ummidia species inhabit different geographical areas within the western Mediterranean. The taxonomical revision of the Mediterranean Ummidia fauna presented here results in the description of one new species (Ummidia algarve n. sp.), the removal of U. picea Thorell 1875 and U. algeriana (Lucas 1846) from synonymy with U. aedificatoria (Westwood 1840) and the placing of U. occidentalis (Simon 1909) in synonymy with U. aedificatoria (Westwood 1840).
3706216|Although scorpions are common and potentially ecologically important members of arid ecosystems throughout the world, basic life history information is lacking for most species. In the current study I examined reproductive investment patterns in four species of scorpion (Centruroides exilicauda, Vaejovis spinigerus, Diplocentrus peloncillensis, and Pseudouroctonus apacheanus) from southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico during 1996-1998. Vaejovis spinigerus invested more in reproduction, in both absolute (total litter mass, TLM) and relative (TLM divided by female mass) terms, than did the other species, and produced the largest litters. Offspring of D. peloncillensis were the largest, weighing over twice as much as the next largest juveniles. Female size was uncorrelated with offspring size in any species, but positive correlations were found between female size and both litter size and total litter mass for C. exilicauda (marginally significant) and V. spinigerus (after removal of an outlier). Greater reproductive investment, measured as TLM, was used to make more offspring (in all species but P. apacheanus) but not larger offspring. A marginally significant trade-off between offspring size and number was found in V. spinigerus; there was no size-number trade-off in the other three species. Overall, then, my results suggest that (1) larger females do not produce larger offspring, (2) larger females may produce more offspring and invest more into a reproductive bout, and (3) the allocation strategy of these species appears to be to invest reproductive resources into production of as many offspring as possible of a relatively fixed size.
4149962|Male Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz 1844) wolf spiders court females with multi-modal displays that include both seismic and visual components. The seismic components are thought to be ancestral whereas the visual components are thought to have been more recently derived. We here present evidence that, despite the evolution of elaborate visual display components in males, female S. ocreata remain able to derive sufficient information about males through the seismic display components alone. We compared the mating tendency of females courted by males in the light (seismic and visual components present) and in the dark (only seismic components present). With a sample of 79 pairs in each condition, pairs were not significantly less likely to mate when in the dark (62%) than when in the light (73%). While all males performed courtship, and latency from the release of males until the onset of courtship was similar in the light and in the dark, latency until mounting tended to be much longer in the dark. This may mean that it takes longer for females to gather the information required to accept a male in the absence of visual cues or may instead simply reflect the challenge of locating mates and orienting for mounting. Lighting conditions did not influence how long the male remained mounted, indicating that these wolf spiders lack the condition-dependent flexibility in copula duration that is found in some jumping spiders.
3706225|A new species, Micrathena cicuta, is described and illustrated based on females from southeastern Brazil. Plectana degeeri Walckenaer is synonymized with M. plana (C.L. Koch), based upon the original description.
3705350|The subfamily Dolichosterninae is newly synonymized with the Diplurinae. A new genus and species, Mediothele australis, are established for a Chilean diplurid with six spinnerets but apparently without close relationship to the Hexathelinae.
3705807| Spiders of 12 families, 20 genera, and 25 species were captured in modified Malaise traps deployed in spruce-fir forests of Somerset and Piscataquis Counties, Maine. Numbers of species and individuals differed between web-spinner and hunter foraging strategies. Srensen's similarity quotient (QS) indicated that the Malaise-trapped fauna had greater similarity to arboreal than to terrestrial spider faunas of northeastern spruce-fir forests. Spider-trap interactions include accidental capture and possibly attraction; attractive features include trap architecture, concentrated potential prey, and protective shelter. 
25654009|The genus Eurocoelotes, established in 2002 with fourteen species from Europe, including two new species, E. halanensis sp. nov. ( only) from Mali Halan, Croatia and E. paramicrolepidus sp. nov. ( only) from Peloponnisos, Greece, is reviewed. Each species is described with a focus on the male palp and the female epigynum. A key to species is provided. Except for E. deltshevi (Dinitrov 1996) and E. drenskii (Deltshev 1990), specimens of which were not available, we have provided illustrations for the male palp and the female epigynum of all species. In general, the male Eurocoelotes has a short cymbial furrow, a broad conductor dorsal apophysis, a spoon-shaped median apophysis, and a prolaterally originating embolus, but lacks a patellar apophysis. The female Eurocoelotes usually has laterally arising epigynal teeth, a large, anteriorly situated atrium, large copulatory ducts, and short, slightly longitudinally extending spermathecae. Exceptions include: E. falciger (Kulczyski 1897), which has a long cymbial furrow and a proximally originating embolus, E. anoplus (Kulczyski 1897) and E. gasperinii (Simon 1891), which have proximally originating emboli, E. brevispinus (Deltshev & Dimitrov 1996), which has a distinct patellar apophysis, E. microlepidus (de Blauwe 1973) and E. paramicrolepidus, which have a tiny patellar apophysis, and E. xinpingwangi Deltshev 2009, which has no epigynal teeth.
23048777|Genetically modified crops expressing insecticidal proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) have dramatically increased in acreage since their introduction in the mid-1990's. Although the insecticidal mechanisms of Bt target specific pests, concerns persist regarding direct and indirect effects on non-target organisms. In the field, spiders may be exposed to Bt toxins via multiple routes, including phytophagy and pollenivory, consumption of Bt-containing prey, and soil exudates in the detrital food web. Beyond direct toxicity, Bt crops may also have indirect impacts, including pleiotropic and prey-mediated effects. Here, we comprehensively review the literature and use meta-analyses to reveal that foliar spider abundance is unaffected by Bt corn and eggplant, while cotton and rice revealed minor negative effects and there were positive effects from potato. Moreover, the soil-dwelling community of spiders was unaffected by Bt corn and cotton, while positively impacted in potato. However, Bt crops had higher populations of both foliar and epigeal spiders than insecticide-treated non-Bt crops. The current risk-assessment literature has several caveats that could limit interpretations of the data, including lack of taxonomic resolution and sampling methods that bias the results in favor of certain spiders. These families responded differently to Bt crops, and spider responses to insecticides are species- and toxin-specific, thus highlighting the need for greater taxonomic resolution. Bt crops have become a prominent, and increasingly dominant, part of the agricultural landscape; understanding their interactions with spiders, a diverse and integral component of agroecosystems, is therefore essential.
3705438|An apparent outbreak of Hymenoepimecis sp., a heretofore unknown ectoparasite of the giant orb weaver, Nephila clavipes is documented in Panama during 1984-1985. Parasitism was highest (25-30%) among intermediate-sized, juvenile female spiders. During the second year the wasps became less discriminating in selecting host spiders. Female wasps were significantly larger than males, and the size of the wasp ectoparasite was positively correlated with the size of the host spider. Although intermediate-sized females that had males in their webs were less likely to be parasitized than such females without males, results from an insectary experiment showed that male spiders did not prevent an established wasp larva from killing its host.
3706219|The spider genus Calileptoneta Platnick is revised and all species are described, diagnosed and keyed. A neotype for Calileptoneta californica (Banks) is designated and Calileptoneta sylva (Chamberlin & Ivie) is removed from synonymy with Calileptoneta californica (Banks). The female of Calileptoneta noyoana Gertsch and the male of Calileptoneta sylva (Chamberlin & Ivie) are described for the first time. Three new species are described: Calileptoneta briggsi, Calileptoneta cokendolpheri, and Calileptoneta ubicki. The morphology of Calileptoneta is discussed, and interpretive illustrations of male and female genitalia are provided. The natural history of Calileptoneta is presented with an account of the mating behavior for C. ubicki. The distribution of Calileptoneta species is discussed, and areas of endemism and potentially new Calileptoneta species are noted.
3706240|Metepeira incrassata (F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1903) (Araneae, Araneidae) are colonial spiders that share a common and relatively permanent framework of silk, but that construct and defend individual orbs within the communal framework. Orbs are taken down nightly and replaced in the morning. Larger spiders generally begin orb construction before smaller spiders do. We tested whether this pattern results from interactions among spiders of different size classes. We constructed artificial colonies that contained either a mixture of size classes or a single size class. In two replicates, spiders that were housed in single-size groups built their orbs at the same time as their counterparts in mixed groups. We suggest that conspecific interaction is unlikely to be the only factor determining the differences in the timing of orb construction among size classes in this species.
4489043|Intraspecific interactions in adult whip spiders (Phrynus marginemaculatus) were investigated in a laboratory setting to quantify agonistic interactions and to determine predictors of contest outcome. Males were initially paired with size-symmetric or size-asymmetric opponents to assess the effect of size symmetry on contests. Three weeks later, the same males were paired with either the same opponent, or a different opponent to determine whether or not individuals remember earlier encounters. Finally, we quantified aspects of female-female contests. Agonistic encounters between males are characterized by varying degrees of pedipalpal opening, elevation displays, and rapid flicking (29 Hz) of the antenniform leg. Duration of elevation displays was a predictor of contest outcome, with individuals being more likely to win if they held an elevated posture for longer than their opponent during the contest. Relative size influenced both contest duration and weight loss, with contests between size-symmetric males lasting longer and resulting in greater weight loss than size-asymmetric contests. In second contests, familiar encounters were both shorter in duration and involved fewer aggressive displays than unfamiliar second contests, suggesting that males were able to remember previous opponents. Females were less likely to exhibit aggressive displays than males, and female contests were shorter in duration than male contests. Overall, the results of our study suggest that agonistic interactions in P. marginemaculatus are extremely complex, varying with the sex and size- symmetry of individuals and involving elaborate signaling, and that there may be a large role for learning and memory.
40233829|We predicted that because plant nectar is high in energy, it is likely to provide multiple benefits to spiders that spend a substantial amount of energy foraging. In three laboratory experiments, we tested the effects of dietary extrafloral nectar on the survival, molting, and activity of two foliage wanderers, Cheiracanthium mildei L. Koch 1864 (Miturgidae) and Hibana velox (Becker 1879) (Anyphaenidae), both highly active, quick-moving nocturnal foragers. Extrafloral nectar contributed significantly to survival and molting in prey-deprived H. velox. On a marginal diet of prey (one Drosophila adult on alternate days) offered to spiders as soon as they emerged, 97% of C. mildei underwent their first molt if they also received nectar, compared to 7% of controls without nectar. On a marginal diet of prey (one Drosophila adult on alternate days) offered to spiders starting two days after their emergence, 78% of the spiders also receiving nectar molted, compared to 0% of controls without nectar. Video recordings of activity showed that prey-deprived groups of C. mildei maintained their active nocturnal foraging for many days on nectar, whereas controls became increasingly quiescent until they died. Non-web-building spiders that feed on nectar may utilize its energy for foraging and thereby allocate the nutrients of prey to maintenance and growth.
3705838|The uloborid Philoponella vicina differs from the araneoids Nephila clavipes and Leucauge mariana in one movement made during frame construction, in the ordering of frame construction, in proto-hub removal, and in the highly ordered sequence of operations on adjacent radii just before proto-hub removal. Data from other uloborids suggest that all of these differences may distinguish orb weaving uloborids in general from orb weaving araneoids. N. clavipes differs from the other two species in the order of lines laid during frame construction, in the high variability in the details of frame construction, and in its failure to remove recently laid lines during exploration, radius construction, and frame construction. Frame construction behavior in all three species is more variable than previous reports indicated, and more variable than behavior in later stages of orb construction. In all three species earlier frame construction more often involves breaking lines already present in the web. Similarity between uloborid and araneoid frame construction is more likely to be due to a combination of constructional constraints and inheritance of ancient spinning patterns than previously realized; it is not clear whether or not it constitutes a synapomorphy uniting the two groups. The failure of N. clavipes to remove recently laid lines during exploration, radius construction, and frame construction is probably plesimorphic. Secondary loss of removal behavior seems unlikely because removal probably confers adaptive advantages. Removal behavior in these contexts and possibly more stereotyped frame construction behavior probably evolved independently in uloborids and araneoids.
3705512|The coelotine agelenid genus Wadotes, exclusive of the single described Palaearctic species W. primus, is a monophyletic assemblage of species endemic to eastern North America. Diagnoses, descriptions, distributions, natural history notes, a key, and a phylogeny are presented for eleven species, five of which (W. carinidactylus, W. deceptis, W. mumai, W. saturnus, and W. willsi) are described as new. W. convolutus and W. carolinus are synonymized with W. bimucronatus. The male palpal tarsus and the female epigynum of the Nearctic group is described in detail. Mating behavior of Wadotes is described for the first time.
3706129|A surgical technique for implanting passive integrated transponders into theraphosid spiders is described. An effecitve procedure for anesthesia was developed. Transponders were implanted in the opisthosomas of 12 spiders. No mortality occurred, and all spiders regained normal behavior. In simulated burrows, tarantulas could be identified to a depth of 16 cm.
3705463|We documented the web-spider community in a soybean agroecosystem over the entire growing season in 1990 and 1991 and over the period of peak spider abundance in August of 1993. Simultaneously a number of vegetational parameters were quantified in order to determine the extent to which the spider abundance was correlated with characteristics of the plant community. Web-spider abundance was higher in 1991 than in 1990 or 1993 and lower in 1993 than the other two years. The composition of the community in terms of web-types also differed among years with sheet webs (Linyphiidae, Agelenidae) being much more abundant in 1991 and orb webs (Araneidae) more abundant in 1990. In 1991, spider abundance was correlated with specific vegetation characteristics which suggests that the availability of habitat was important to spider colonization and establishment in that year. However, in 1990 spider abundance was not correlated with any of the vegetation characteristics we measured. The late season spider density was positively correlated with weed biomass and the damage inflicted on the soybean leaves by herbivores was negatively correlated with the number of web-spiders across the three years. These data suggest that the web-spider community responds to some aspects of the plant community and that they have the potential to impact plant production by reducing the action of herbivores.
3705706|A scanning electron microscope study of the silk spigots of the first free postembryonic instar of Antrodiaetus unicolor shows that their spigots and setae are more similar in early instar spiderlings than in the adult spiders. This ontogenetic evidence supports the hypothesis that the silk spigots of spiders evolved from setae. These observations also suggest that spigots with a deep articulation between the base and shaft are more primitive than the non-articulated spigots.
41317216|The urbanization process is the motor of deep environmental changes at both local and landscape levels. Although more and more studies are investigating the ecological consequences of urbanization, only a few have studied small-scale responses of biodiversity to urban-rural boundary gradients, and even fewer have compared different model groups synchronically. In this study, we compared the responses of two invertebrate groups often used as bioindicators, spiders and carabid beetles, along small-scale boundaries (around 1 km). The following parameters were estimated: assemblage composition, species richness, and activity-densities overall and per life history trait (habitat preference, dispersal abilities for carabid beetles and hunting guilds for spiders). The field data were collected in 2009 using pitfall traps set randomly in hedgerows within urban, boundary and rural zones (30 traps in total). 924 adult spiders belonging to 78 species were collected, whereas the 330 captured carabid beetles belonged to 25 species. We found no evidence of any significant change in carabid beetle activity-density (overall and for most life history traits) or in species richness along the urban-rural gradient. Conversely, there was a significant change in spider activity-density, both per habitat preference and per hunting guild. We also found a progressive change in community composition for spiders. Our results suggest that studying different model groups can provide complementary information about urbanization.
41317222|The family Hexisopodidae is endemic to southern Africa. Hexisopodids represent a very peculiar group of Solifugae. They differ from all other solifuge families through various autapomorpic adaptations to a subterranean mode of life, most notably the presence of fossorial legs. The phylogeny of the Solifugae is widely unresolved. The ultrastructure of spermatozoa has successfully been used for phylogenetic analyses in other animal taxa. Therefore, the question arose whether the morphological peculiarity of the family Hexisopodidae might also be reflected in the ultrastructure of their spermatozoa. This was investigated for Hexisopus psammophilus Wharton 1981 (Hexisopodidae). Spermatozoa do not seem to aggregate in the testes, nor in the vasa deferentia. Sperm cells are aflagellate, roundish, and with irregularly shaped chromatin bodies. Each sperm is surrounded by a secretion sheath, thus representing a typical cleistosperm, the first record of this form of sperm transfer in solifuges. The sperm cells form finger-like protuberances and contain putative granules of glycogen, features shared with the Ammotrechidae, Daesiidae and Solpugidae. The acrosomal complex shows additional similarity with the Solpugidae. Overall, the spermatozoa of H. psammophilus share some morphological features with the Ammotrechidae and Daesiidae, but mostly resemble that of the family Solpugidae.
3706001|Although spiders in general are polyphagous, indiscriminate feeding is not advantageous because prey vary enormously in quality due to toxicity or nutrient deficiency. Active prey selection serves to find the optimal compromise between three "nutritional goals": maximize energy intake, balance nutrient composition of the body, and minimize toxin consumption. Consumption of toxic prey is reduced by more or less specific induced aversions, probably associated with both prey taste and behavior. Spiders' ability to avoid toxic prey seems limited because aversions are short-lasting and some toxic prey do not induce an aversion. Such prey may be lethal. Toxic prey in a mixed diet may inhibit feeding on and utilization of good prey. Induced tolerance to toxic prey may be possible, however. Nutritional balance may be obtained through consumption of high-quality prey or through mixing of prey types. It is argued that nutrient balance is more important than maximization of energy intake for fitness.
3706388|During courtship, males of Eupalaestrus weijenberghi and Acanthoscurria suina performed body vibrations and palpal drumming after contacting conspecific female silk at the burrow entrance. Receptive females responded by leg tapping. To elucidate the communicatory channels involved in both species, courting males were placed in terraria with females that had burrowed. In the first experiment, the courting male was covered with a glass cup, minimizing airborne acoustic communication but allowing seismic communication. In the second, the male courted without the cup cover. In the third experiment, the male and the female were placed into two separated parts of the terrarium, greatly limiting seismic communication. In the fourth, these last parts were joined. Females of both species responded to the courtship with receptive behavior in all of the experiments except experiment 3. We conclude that male signals produced during courtship in these two species are mainly seismic. Male body vibrations (that would generate seismic signals) as well as female display, are a widespread phenomena in theraphosid spiders.
3704944|The spider genus Paratheuma Bryant is transferred from the Gnaphosidae to the Desidae; Corteza Roth and Brown is newly synonymized with Paratheuma. Paratheuma isolata Bryant is transferred to Syrisca (Clubionidae).
3705613|This study continues documentation of the species radiation of the genus Tetragnatha in the Hawaiian archipelago. The T. acuta clade comprises four known species which are characterized by pointed abdomens, with strong patterns of black on white or brown/gray accentuating the dorsal peak. They tend to specialize on habitats (such as exposed ridges, lava rock and dry forest) which appear to be unfavorable to their congeners. Three new species are described in this clade; and the morphology, ecology and distribution of representatives are compared.
3706125| We studied spatial and temporal patterns of abundance of Ctenus amphora, C. crulsi, C. manauara and C. villasboasi, four syntopic species of medium-to-large sized wandering spiders that forage on the ground in a neotropical rainforest. We found temporal variation, apparently seasonal, in abundance for two of the four species. The four species are sympatric in the study area, but with very distinct spatial patterns of abundance. Ctenus amphora was more abundant in areas with sandy soil but are also common on clay soils, C. manauara and C. crulsi are the dominant species in areas with clay soil and are infrequent in sandy soils, and C. villasboasi had a more homogenous abundance in the study area. Previous studies suggested that a predator, army ants, could have an important impact on the abundance of these spiders. We estimated the frequency of attacks by army ants using pitfall traps in sandy and clay soil areas. The estimated probability of attack by army ants was higher in areas with clay soil (92% per 3 months), where all species are frequently found, than in sandy soil areas (21%), where C. crulsi and C. manauara were almost absent. However, it is still not clear if predation by army ants is a key factor that facilitates coexistence in clay soils, and this factor can not explain the difference on the dominant species between areas with different soil types. We also discuss the description of spatial patterns of abundance as a simple, but powerful, tool seldom used for preliminary studies on the coexistence of spiders. /// Ns estudamos padres espaciais e temporais de abundncia de Ctenus amphora, C. crulsi, C. manauara e C. villasboasi, quatro espcies sintpicas de aranhas errantes que forrageiam no cho em uma floresta neotropical mida. Ns encontramos uma variao temporal, aparentemente sazonal, na abundafancia de duas das quatro espcies. As quatro espcies so simptricas na rea de estudo, mas com padres espaciais de abundncia muito distintos. Ctenus amphora foi mais abundante em reas de solos arenosos, mas tambm foi comum em solos argilosos C. manauara e C. crulsi foram as espcies dominantes em solos argilosos, e foram infreqentes em solos arenosos, e C. villasboasi teve uma abundncia mais homognea na rea de estudo. Estudos anteriores sugeriram que um predador, formigas de correio, poderia ter um forte impacto sobre a abundncia destas aranhas. Ns estimamos a freqncia de ataques por formigas de correio usando armadilhas de fosso (pitfall traps) em reas de solo arenoso e argiloso. A probabilidade estimada de ataques por formigas de correio foi maior em reas de solo argiloso (92% em 3 meses), onde todas as espcies so freqentemente encontradas, que em solo arenoso (21%), onde C. crulsi e C. manauara foram raras. Entretanto, ainda no est claro se a predao  um fator chave para facilitar a coexistncia em solos argilosos, e este fator no pode explicar a diferena de espcies dominantes entre as reas com tipos de solo diferentes. Ns tambm discutimos a descrio de padres espaciais de abundncia como um ferramenta simples, mas poderosa e pouco usada para o estudo da coexistncia de aranhas. 
3705509|The new Costa Rican species Philoponella herediae and its web are described and illustrated. The web consists of a horizontal orb-web beneath which converging, vertical threads are spun.
3705654| Eremochelis lagunensis new species from Palo Extrao in Baja California Sur, Mxico, is described and illustrated. The structure of the fixed finger of the male chelicerae of E. lagunensis looks like the fixed fingers of E. rossi Muma, 1986 but the fondal notch and mesoventral groove of the fixed finger as well as the dentition of the movable finger of E. lagunensis are different from that species. The females are similar to E. truncus. /// Se describe e ilustra a Eremochelis lagunensis especie nueva de Palo Extrao, Baja California Sur, Mxico. La estructura del dedo fijo de los quelceros del macho de E. lagunensis es similar a la de E. rossi Muma 1986; sin embargo, en E. lagunensis el espacio de la muesca basal de los quelceros y el canal lateroventral del dedo fijo, asi como la denticin del dedo movil es diferente a lo que presenta aquella especie. Las hembras se parecen a las de E. truncus. 
3705550|Field observations of Portia schultzii, a web-building jumping spider from Kenya, Africa, reveal that it commonly inhabits the dense webs of Ischnothele karschi, a diplurid spider. As a detritus mimic, this spider is inconspicuous whether in a web or on the move. Laboratory studies show that it readily catches a variety of prey-spiders and insects (mainly Drosophila) in its own webs, in I. karschi and other alien webs, as well as in non-web situations. Although the basic, visually-directed, predatory sequence conforms to that of the typical salticids, several derived features, such as the extremely slow and specialised locomotory movements, long periods of immobility in a cryptic posture, the web strategies of 'quivering' and 'dropping', and shorter visual discriminatory distances (not more than 10 cm) than most other salticids, enable this spider to exploit a web environment.
23070805|The taxonomic status of four species of Avicularia Lamarck 1818 described from Uruguay: Avicularia anthracina (C.L. Koch 1842), Avicularia alticeps (Keyserling 1878), Avicularia parva (Keyserling 1878) and Avicularia tigrina (Pocock 1903) is discussed. The holotypes and/or original descriptions of these species were examined, and two taxonomic synonymies are needed, which are presented herein. Avicularia anthracina is transferred to Grammostola, resulting in Grammostola anthracina (C.L. Koch 1842) new combination and is considered a senior synonym of Grammostola mollicoma Ausserer 1875 new synonymy. Likewise, Avicularia parva is transferred to Catumiri Guadanucci 2004, where it is placed in the synonymy of Catumiri uruguayense Guadanucci 2004 new synonymy. Avicularia tigrina and Avicularia alticeps, originally described in the genera Ischnocolus Ausserer 1875 and Pterinopelma Pocock 1901, respectively, are herein considered nomina dubia since their types are presumed lost.
3705726| The avara group of the genus Trochosa (sensu Brady), is treated as the genus Varacosa (sensu Roewer). V. hoffmannae n. sp. is illustrated and described from Mxico and V. avara is also illustrated. /// El grupo avara del gnero Trochosa (sensu Brady), es tratado como el gnero Varacosa (sensu Roewer). Se hace la descripcin de la nueva especie Varacosa hoffmannae de Mxico y se ilustra a V. avara. 
25067873|The Hemerotrecha banksi group is revised and the status of the genus Hemerotrecha is examined. The female of H. truncata Muma 1951 is described for the first time, and five new species are named: H. hanfordana, H. kaboomi, H. prenticei. H. pseudotruncata, and H. vetteri.
3705091|The male of Barrisca nannella is redescribed, the female is described for the first time, and a new species, B. kochalkai, is described from northern Colombia and Venezuela.
4129872|Chrysso nigriceps is redescribed and the male is described for the first time based on material from Colombia. Evidence for maternal care of juveniles in Chrysso is presented. This evidence is consistent with predictions based on phylogenetic analysis that maternal care is primitively present in the lost colulus clade, the lineage containing all social theridiids.
3705454|The relationship between body size and web design was studied for the nocturnal orb-weaving spider Nuctenea sclopetaria. Body measurements (carapace width, leg length, body length and wet weight) taken from 27 adult female and 22 juvenile spiders were related to web dimensions (capture area, number of radii, capture thread length, mesh height) each spider constructed. Carapace width was found to be the most reliable size measure for predicting web dimensions for adult and juvenile spiders. The study also found that the webs showed a distinct asymmetry due to the enlargement of the lower web half and the extent of this asymmetry increased with carapace width. Furthermore, mesh height increased with distance from the hub. The possible effects of web asymmetry on the prey capture success of spiders are discussed.
24717308|Bark spiders (genus Caerostris Thorell 1868) are important models in biomaterial research due to the remarkable biomechanical properties of the silk of C. darwini Kuntner & Agnarsson 2010 and its gigantic web. They also exhibit female gigantism and are promising candidates for coevolutionary research on sexual dimorphism. However, Caerostris spiders are taxonomically understudied and the lack of a phylogeny impedes evolutionary research. Using a combination of one mitochondrial and one nuclear marker, we provide the first species-level phylogeny of Caerostris including half of its species diversity but dense terminal sampling focusing on new lineages. Our phylogenetic and morphological results provide the evidence for six previously undescribed species: C. almae n. sp., C. bojani n. sp., C. pero n. sp. and C. wallacei n. sp., all from Madagascar, C. linnaeus n. sp. from Mozambique and C. tinamaze n. sp. from the Republic of South Africa.
3706228|Reproductive stems add complexity to vegetation, thereby increasing the range and quality of microhabitats available for arthropods. In this study, we evaluated whether variation in inflorescence characteristics influenced spider distribution. We compared spider guild structure among inflorescences of three herbaceous plant species, Melanthera latifolia, Conyza bonariensis and Eupatorium hecatanthum (Asteraceae), and between inflorescences of C. bonariensis in two different phenological stages, flower buds and opened flowers. Total spider abundance was higher on M. latifolia, intermediate on E. hecatanthum, and lower on C. bonariensis. Ambush spiders were more abundant on M. latifolia than on the other plant species, while the abundance of hunting spiders did not differ among plant species. Also, spiders recorded on M. latifolia were larger than those on both E. hecatanthum and C. bonariensis. However, ambush spiders were smallest on M. latifolia, while hunting spiders on E. hecatanthum were larger than on the other plant species. The number of spiders on inflorescences with flower buds did not differ from those with opened flowers, but ambush spiders on inflorescences with opened flowers were larger than those on inflorescences with flower buds. Our results with different inflorescence types support the hypothesis that differences on microhabitat structure influence distribution of spiders.
3705855| Synema lopezi n. sp. and Tmarus tamazolinus n. sp. from the State of Mxico are described and illustrated. /// Se hace la descripcin de las nuevas especies Synema lopezi y Tmarus tamazolinus, del Estado de Mxico. 
4149970| Amblypygids have modified front legs that are not used for locomotion, but rather to probe the environment in the manner of antennae. These elongate, motile sense organs are referred to as antenniform legs. We have found remarkable replication in structure and function of giant neurons in the antenniform leg of the amblypygid Phrynus marginemaculatus C. L. Koch 1841 when compared with other amblypygids. These neurons have such large diameter axons (several m) that their action potentials can be recorded outside the cuticle. Their cell bodies are found in the periphery, in the distal-most segments of the antenniform leg, centimeters away from the central nervous system. Primary afferents from sense organs on the antenniform leg synapse onto some of the giant fibers in these distal segments of the leg. Standard histological techniques and a novel whole mount preparation were used to identify the location of giant cell bodies within the antenniform leg. We found several new cell bodies in segments 10-20, three of which were predicted by previous electrophysiological studies of another amblypygid, Heterophrynus elaphus Pocock 1903. Electrophysiology was used to show that the structure and function of four of the giant neurons, GN1, 2, 6, and 7, is very similar in P. marginemaculatus and H. elaphus. Heterophrynus elaphus inhabits humid tropical forests in South America while P. marginemaculatus individuals were collected from a pine rock hammock in the Florida Keys, USA. The similarity of findings in species with such distinct habitats suggests that the giant neurons are required for basic neuromechanical operation of these extended limbs, and are not subject to intense selection via ecological factors. 
4129861| Due to their relative rareness and restricted distribution, little is known about the ultra-structure of ricinuleids. In particular, sense organs have not been the subject of electron microscopic research until now. Ricinuleids use their forelegs to explore their surroundings with tentative movements. The distal tarsomeres of legs I and II of two cavernicolous Mexican species, Pseudocellus pearsei from the Yucatn Peninsula and Pseudocellus boneti from Guerrero, were examined in this study with light microscopy, scanning (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). A conspicuous feature of the distal tarsomeres of legs I and II is a single circular opening that extends as a deep tube-like pit into the tarsus. This pore organ is lacking in the 6-legged larvae. Comparable organs are present in Araneae, Scorpiones, Amblypygi and Anactinotrichida. The tarsal organs of the mentioned groups possess several types of sensilla (olfactory, thermo- and hygrosensitive and mechanosensitve). The pore organ is located in the distal third of the dorsal half of the tarsus. In longitudinal sections it shows a long oval shape. In cross sections it is nearly circular. The pore organ contains a large number of long, slightly curved setae. These setae are localized on the bottom and the lower two thirds of the wall of the pit and project into the lumen. The upper third of the wall is free of setae and shows folds which extend parallel to the opening. All setae inside the pit seem to be of the same type. In sections they show a complex inner structure and likely represent chemoreceptive wall pore single-walled (wp-sw) sensilla. This indicates a possible olfactory function. The pore organ is underlain by numerous gland cells which represent characteristics of unicellular "class I" gland cells. 
24717307|The classification of jumping spiders (Salticidae) is revised to bring it into accord with recent phylogenetic work. Of the 610 recognized extant and fossil genera, 588 are placed at least to subfamily, most to tribe, based on both molecular and morphological information. The new subfamilies Onomastinae, Asemoneinae, and Eupoinae, and the new tribes Lapsiini, Tisanibini, Neonini, Mopsini, and Nannenini, are described. A new unranked clade, the Simonida, is recognized. Most other family-group taxa formerly ranked as subfamilies are given new status as tribes or subtribes. The large long-recognized clade recently called the Salticoida is ranked as a subfamily, the Salticinae, with the name Salticoida reassigned to its major subgroup (the sister group to the Amycoida). Heliophaninae Petrunkevitch and Pelleninae Petrunkevitch are considered junior synonyms of Chrysillini Simon and Harmochirina Simon respectively. Spartaeinae Wanless and Euophryini Simon are preserved despite older synonyms. The genus Meata abka is synonymized with Gedea Simon, and Diagondas Simon with Carrhotus Thorell. The proposed relationships indicate that a strongly ant-like body has evolved at least 12 times in salticids, and a strongly beetle-like body at least 8 times. Photographs of living specimens of all 7 subfamilies, 30 tribes, and 13 subtribes are presented.
4489050|The new species Cupiennius chapanensis is described from a mangrove forest in the coastal regions of Chiapas, Mexico. The most noticeable characteristic of the species is the bright red coloration of the chelicerae, given by a covering of long setae on the anterior surface; because of this coloration, it has been previously confused with Phoneutria fera Perty 1833. It is generally similar to Cupiennius getazi Simon 1891, but lacks the spotted pattern on the ventral surface of the femora, together with other differences in genitalic morphology. Cupiennius salei Keyserling 1877 was also found on the same forest during the wet season, while C. chiapanensis appeared in the dry season. Adults of both species were never collected at the same time. This is also the first record of C. salei at the sea level, being previously considered a highland species.
3706149|Little information is available concerning the tree species preferred by the American redlegged purseweb spider, Sphodros rufipes (Latreille 1829), for supporting their webs. During a study of the spiders of northwestern Louisiana, 26 pursewebs of S. rufipes were found. All were on deciduous trees, with 58% found on sweetgum or oak. None of the webs were on conifers or herbaceous plants even though conifers made up 7-92% of the trees in the sampled areas. All pursewebs were within 20 m of a stream and were on trees with a trunk less than 70 cm dbh.
20788622|Capturing unusually profitable prey early in life potentially enhances one's future fecundity and survival. Newly emerged crab spiderlings Misumena vatia (Araneae: Thomisidae) occasionally capture prey that greatly exceed them in size. I attempted to evaluate what if any long-term advantage these kills provided by presenting nave, just-emerged spiderlings with syrphid flies Toxomerus marginatus that exceeded the initial mass of the spiderlings six-fold, a prey that the spiderlings occasionally captured in the field. A second group of spiderlings received a single syrphid initially and subsequently a single fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster every other day, and a control group received a fruit fly every other day. The few spiderlings that regularly captured the syrphids gained significantly more mass than the other groups. Individuals taking an initial syrphid and then fruit flies did not gain more mass than controls fed on solely on fruit flies. Neither did a group of spiderlings followed in the field nor a small group of individuals fed multiple fruit flies every other day in the laboratory differ in growth rates from the syrphid + fruit fly or single fruit fly groups. Thus, capture of a single bonanza prey does not provide the spiderlings with a significant advantage over those that did not obtain this reward, and in the field they probably do not manage to duplicate the capture success of the surviving members of the syrphid-only group.
20798573|This paper discusses the possible functional significance of the locations of the spigots of different types of silk gland on the different spinnerets of spiders. Deductions are based on recognition that some types of line are initiated by being attached to the dragline, that there is an anterior-posterior asymmetry in how such lines can be initiated, and that spigot location also affects the possibility of attaching lines to the substrate. Possible explanations are given for several morphological details, including the anterior location of the dragline, piriform and cribellum spigots, planar arrays of piriform and cribellum spigots, and posterior location of aciniform spigots. I argue that piriform gland products are not used to attach egg sac lines to each other, that sticky wrapping lines are initiated in theridiids and pholcids by attaching them to draglines and that lines from both aciniform and cylindriform glands are laid along with liquid that renders them sticky. The possible role of phylogenetic inertia in determining spigot locations is discussed. Further work is needed to determine whether termination of lines and accessibility of spigots for cleaning also influence their positions.
3705555|The genus Olpiolum Beier is redefined on the basis of a redescription of the type species, Olpiolum medium Beier. O. elegans (Balzan) is retained in the genus, but all other species previously assigned there are removed. Olpiolum modestum Banks, redescribed, serves as the type species of the new genus Banksolpium, and a new species, B. magnum, is added to the genus.
25654000|Primary chemosensory afferents within each peg sensillum on scorpion pectines contain a dense plexus of synaptic contacts of unknown importance to informational processing within this simple sensory structure. These connections probably contribute to the processing of chemical signals from the substrate to the encoded pattern of spike activity ascending the pectinal nerves to the CNS. A key finding of earlier studies of this system was the apparent existence of strong and long-lasting inhibitory interactions between one identifiable unit  type "B" cells  and at least two other sensory neurons  identified as "A1" and "A2"  cells within the same sensillum. Because peripheral synaptic interactions are rarely observed between primary sensory neurons, it is important to reject the alternative non-synaptic mechanism to account for the unusual spike waveform of inhibitory B units, namely, that it is derived from coincident discharge of the A1 and A2 units it is presumed to inhibit. High resolution waveform analysis of two or more units firing in close temporal proximity (within about 5 ms) showed unequivocally that type B units occur within the post excitatory period when the A units would be refractory to re-excitation. Furthermore, the number of these B/A1 or B/A2 doublets was in line with the number predicted for the observed spontaneous firing frequency of the B, A1, and A2 units in the peg. This analysis corroborates the original conclusion that B unit activity is the electrophysiological signature of an inhibitory processing event, one that strikingly transforms the information encoded and passed from each peg sensillum to the central nervous system.
3705904|The genus Hebrithele has been known only from the female holotype of its type species, Hebrithele longicauda Berland. The male of the species was apparently described earlier but was misplaced in the family Gnaphosidae. Hypodrassodes insulanus (Rainbow) is transferred to the Miturgidae and considered a senior synonym of Hebrithele longicauda.
3705157|The molting sequence of Aphonopelma chalcodes is broken into ten steps and each characterized. Feeding is delayed several days after a molt as the exoskeleton hardens. Under artificial conditions molting may occur at any time during the day, but apparently occurs on a seasonal cycle.
4129845| A fossil harvestman (Arachnida, Opiliones) from the Mississippian (Visan: Brigantian) of East Kirkton, Scotland is described as Brigantibunum listoni new genus and species. At ca. 340 Ma, it represents the second oldest record of Opiliones. Although some details are lacking, this long-legged, small-bodied and rather gracile harvestman is surprisingly modern-looking and appears to show the impression of an annulate ovipositor. Its leg anatomy closely matches that of some living Eupnoi and it is tentatively referred to this clade. Like the newly discovered Rhynie chert harvestmen, it reinforces the idea that modern, crown-group Opiliones can be traced back to at least the mid-Paleozoic. 
4129871|Male mating strategies are often deployed with regard to female maturity and receptivity, possibly in response to sperm utilization patterns on the part of the female. We examined the pattern of male residency with females during the mating period of the subsocial spider Anelosimus cf. jucundus (Araneae, Theridiidae). We first examined patterns of male cohabitation with naturally occurring penultimate instar and adult females in the field. Males were significantly more likely to be found in association with adult females, rather than with penultimate instar females. Penultimate instar and virgin adult females of known age were then placed into the field and monitored for residency by subsequently marked males. Males were, again, significantly more likely to be found in association with adult females, rather than with penultimate-instar females, although we were unable to determine if this pattern was due to differential arrival or to differential retention of males at adult female web sites. Aspects of A. cf. jucundus natural history, including duration of male residency and frequency of mating in the field, are provided for the first time. We discuss the patterns of male residency in relation to predictions based on sperm utilization patterns by female A. cf. jucundus spiders.
4489067|Little or no genetic divergence is detected using mitochondrial 16S rDNA sequence comparisons across the entire geographic range of the scorpion Euscorpius italicus (Herbst 1800) from Switzerland, Italy, Slovenia, Greece and Turkey. This is consistent with known absence of patterns of allozymes and morphological variation. Euscorpius italicus is found almost exclusively in human habitations. Its sister species, E. naupliensis, exhibits much higher genetic diversity within southern Greece. We suggest that the natural populations of the thermophilic E. italicus underwent a bottleneck during the glaciations, and that its modern range could be a result of dispersal with humans.
41317226|The genus Oligoxystre was originally established in 1924 for O. auratum Vellard 1924 from southern state of Gois, Central Brazil. Today, the genus includes seven species: O. auratum, O. caatinga Guadanucci 2007, O. bolivianum (Vol 2001), O. tucuruiense Guadanucci 2007, O. rufoniger Guadanucci 2007, O. dominguense Guadanucci 2007, and O. diamantinensis Bertani et al. 2009. Oligoxystre mineirum new species, from the Atlantic forest domain is described here. The cladistic analysis resulted in a single tree: (O. caatinga (O. mineirum ((O. tucuruiense+ O. rufoniger) (O. diamantinensis (O. bolivianum + O. dominguense))))). According to the area cladogram obtained, it is possible to draw the following conclusions: the origin of the Cerrado fauna is monophyletic; the occurrence of two sympatric species in Caatinga is due to different events; and the diversity of Oligoxystre in Serra do Espinhao (O. rufoniger, O. diamantinensis and O. mineirum) is probably the result of the contact of the typical fauna of each bioma (Cerrado, Caatinga and Atlantic Forest).
24717313|Pseudoscorpions of the family Withiidae are distributed in most regions of the world, but are less common in the Australian region. Apart from the cosmopolitan genus Withius Kew, 1911, the fauna is dominated by the endemic genera Metawithius Chamberlin, 1931 and Hyperwithius Beier, 1951. A review of material of both genera reveals that Metawithius is a senior synonym of Hyperwithius, and is defined by the presence of a patch of rugose cuticle on the internal surface of the male maxilla. The genus contains the following taxa: M. murrayi (Pocock, 1900), M. philippinus Beier, 1937, M. spiniventer Redikorzev, 1938, M. spiniventer pauper Beier, 1953, three species newly transferred from Hyperwithius to Metawithius, M. annamensis (Rodikorzev, 1938), comb. nov., M. tonkinensis (Beier, 1951), comb. nov. and M. dawydoffi (Beier, 1951), comb. nov., and M. nepalensis (Beier, 1974) which is newly transferred from Withius. The remaining species previously attributed to Metawithius are transferred to other genera, primarily because they lack the patch of rugose cuticle. The subgenus Metawithius (Microwithius) Redikorzev, 1938 is once again raised to generic level, and provisionally contains four species, M. yurii Redikorzev, 1938 from southeast Asia, and M. indicus (Murthy and Ananthakrishnan, 1977), comb. nov., M. chamundiensis (Sivaraman, 1980), comb. nov. and M. bulli (Sivaraman, 1980), comb. nov. from India. Metawithius (Microwithius) tweediei Beier, 1955 also lacks the rugose patch of cuticle and is provisionally transferred to Withius, forming the new combination W. tweediei (Beier, 1955). Two new species from northern Australian rainforests are found to be most similar to Metawithius but instead of an internal patch of rugose cuticle, they have an external patch. These new species, R. bulbosus sp. nov. (type species) and R. longissimus sp. nov., are placed in a new genus, Rugowithius. Afrowithius Chamberlin, 1931 is regarded as a new synonym of Withius, and the type species Chelifer paradoxus Ellingsen, 1912 from South Africa is treated as a senior synonym of Withius crassipes (Lawrence, 1937).
3705659|Nest-guarding female crab spiders Misumena vatia sometimes become displaced from their nests on milkweed leaves. Experimentally displaced individuals usually found their way back to their nests if put at the bottom of the stem containing their nest, even though they had no silken lines to guide them. In repeat runs they performed similarly, although returning more rapidly than in the initial runs. Spiders displaced several cm from their nests recruited to them much less successfully than spiders at the base of the stem. Finding lost nests may be important because more offspring survive in guarded nests than in unguarded ones.
24365280|The design of sampling schemes affects the results of biodiversity inventories. As an approach for quantifying the implications of such effects, we compared data on spider communities sampled in a beech-dominated forest floor habitat by 1) a regular grid of pitfall traps (systematic design) and 2) an expert-based distribution of traps (stratified design). We tested whether the two designs would lead to similar conclusions about the diversity and composition of ground-dwelling spider communities. Estimates of species richness, rarefied species richness and activity density calculated per trap were significantly higher in the stratified than in the systematic design. The community composition based on the presence or absence of sampled species or based on log-transformed activity densities differed significantly. Most of the dissimilarity between the community estimates of the two designs was attributable to three species, with Pardosa saltans Tpfer-Hofmann 2000 being more common in traps of the stratified design and Tenuiphantes zimmermanni (Bertkau 1890) and Walckenaeria cuspidata Blackwall 1833 being more frequently observed in traps of the systematic design. Our study suggests that a stratified sampling design is better suited for inventory surveys of spider communities of forest-floor habitats, as trap locations of this design reflect specific habitat needs. It is important to note that inventories are a major field for the application of such designs and that greater care is needed for the application of inferential statistics. For example, the non-randomness that is caused by expert selection of sampling sites may violate fundamental assumptions of simple linear models.
23610289|Three new species of the harvestmen genus Protimesius Roewer 1913 are described from the Amazonian region of Peru. Protimesius amigos n. sp. from Madre de Dios Department may be distinguished by the absence of an anterior prominence on the prosoma and the presence of five pairs of basal large setae on the penis. Protimesius machiguenga n. sp. and P. kakinte n. sp. are described from the Lower Urubamba region of Cusco Department; P. machiguenga n. sp. is similar to P. cirio Villarreal-Manzanilla & Pinto-da-Rocha 2006 and can be distinguished from it by the presence of a conspicuous dorsal prolateral row of tubercles on the male tibia IV; P. kakinte n. sp. is similar to P. amphichelis Roewer 1931 and P. boibumba Villarreal-Manzanilla & Pinto-da-Rocha 2006, but can be separated from these by the development of tubercles on the femur and tibia IV, and by the number of retrolateral tubercles on male femur IV. New records of P. albilineatus (Roewer 1957) from Loreto department in northern Peru are also reported.
23048794|Energetic costs of courtship behavior were measured for two sympatric wolf spiders that are reproductively isolated based on distinct male courtship behaviors with different signaling modes and activity levels: Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz 1844) uses multi-modal communication (visual and seismic signals) and an actively-moving courtship display, whereas S. rovneri (Uetz & Dondale 1979) uses only seismic signals produced while stationary. To test for increased energetic expense of more complex multimodal courtship in S. ocreata, we recorded peak CO2 output for male spiders standing, walking, or courting. We found that peak CO2 output while standing or walking was similar between species. Courtship behavior of S. ocreata produced greater peak CO2 output than these other behaviors, and was significantly greater than peak CO2 output of S. rovneri courtship, which was not different from that of locomotion. Hence, unequal energy expenditure related to the modality of the males' courtship displays resulted in different energetic costs for courting male spiders. Male courtship vigor may serve as a criterion for female mate choice in Schizocosa.
25067816|Three species of the genus Draconarius are recognized from Korea and all are described and illustrated. Coelotes kayasanensis Paik 1972 is transferred to Draconarius (D. kayasanensis new combination) based on the presence of a patellar apophysis, the hooked dorsal apophysis of the conductor in the male palp, the position of the spermathecal head, and the shape of the broadly rectangular genital opening of the female situated posteriorly near the epigastric furrow. The male of D. coreanus (Paik & Yaginuma 1969) and the female of D. kayasanensis are described for the first time. A neotype of D. coreanus is designated in the present study because of the loss of the holotype, limited range of the species, and the small population size. Draconarius hallaensis new species is described and is distinguished by its small size (less than 8 mm in total body length), large rounded retrolateral tibial apophysis, and median apophysis that has a distally divided thumb-shaped inner part.
25067899|The name Madrepeira amazonica Levi 1995 is a synonym of Spintharidius rhomboidalis Simon 1893. Spintharidius is currently monospecific.
25434322|We investigated the activity pattern of males and females of the neotropical harvestman Neosadocus maximus Giltay 1928 focusing on behavioral variations between day and night and also between summer and winter. Our study also proposes a new method for quantifying arthropod behavior in captivity based on totally random samplings, which minimizes problems of pseudoreplication, so common in studies of behavioral repertoires. Eighteen individuals (nine males and nine females) collected at the Parque Estadual Intervales, So Paulo state, Brazil, were maintained in the laboratory from June 2003 to February 2004 for qualitative and quantitative observations. Thirty-four behavioral acts grouped in five behavioral categories were recorded, with "resting" (53.1%) and "exploration" (30.8%) being the most frequent. The behavioral repertoire of males (32 acts) was more diversified than that of females (29 acts). Moreover, there was a significant effect of sex (male  female) on the frequency of the behavioral categories: females expended more time resting than did males, whereas males expended more time in exploration and grooming activities than did females. There was also a significant effect of time of day (day  night) and of season (winter  summer) on the frequency of the behavioral categories: individuals were most active at night and during summer. Finally, temperature, but not humidity, had a positive effect on the activity of the individuals. In conclusion, the activity of N. maximus has sexual, daily, and seasonal variations, which are both quantitative and qualitative.
3706275|Toxoniella, a new genus of Gallieniellidae is described from forest remnants on the Taita Hills in Kenya. The genus is characterized by legs with well developed spination, the male palp with posterior tegular extension not containing the spermduct and the epigyne with a single central frontal ledge, double spermathecae, and cul de sac tubes in front. Two new species, both known from males and females, are recognized: T. taitensis and T. rogoae. The position of the genus is discussed in the light of the presence of enlarged piriform gland spigots on the ALS in the male and its close relationship to Drassodella supported by a number of synapomorphies.
3705290|The use of pitfall trapping and quadrat sampling in ecological studies of spiders is discussed. Comparison of these methods in studies of species diversity shows pitfall trapping to give a closer estimate of the total number of species in a community. Limiting the method to studies of cursorial forms, like wandering spiders, may diminish sampling error due to differential species activity. Several conditions for limited use of pitfall trapping in ecological research are proposed. Improvements in trap dispersion and trap design are presented which may substantially reduce sampling errors. Descriptors: Pitfall trapping, ecological methods, wandering spiders.
3706172|Kleptoparasitic spiders are known to have a close association with host spiders, yet there have been few studies demonstrating how host availability influences the dynamics of kleptoparasites. Field surveys were conducted at five sites differing in host composition in sub-tropical areas in Japan, at about two-months intervals. Argyrodes flavescens and A. bonadea were both found more frequently on webs of two Nephila species than expected from the web areas they occupied among webs of all web spiders. Seasonal dynamics of Argyrodes changed greatly according to whether N. clavata was present or not, indicating the importance of Nephila on Argyrodes populations. The peak density of A. bonadea came earlier than that of A. flavescens. Because A. flavescens is known to limit the number of A. bonadea on host webs, the decrease in the density of A. bonadea may be due to the effect of interspecific competition by A. flavescens.
41758967|Coalition military bases in Afghanistan are increasing in area, infrastructure and population due to increased military efforts. From 2004 to 2010, a 40-hectare base in Ghazni, Afghanistan transitioned from a montane shrubland to a small, modern "village." This shift comprised an over 50-fold increase in hardcover and a 20-fold increase in the human population. I searched the base with UV light (n = 43.6 h) for scorpions, especially Mesobuthus Vachon 1950, an established, opportunistic scorpion found in Ghazni City, 5 km north. I completed my searches along two tracks (> 5 km total length) and considered all habitats for this scorpion. Anthropogenic microhabitats comprised concrete walls, concrete barriers, gabions or sandbags, each in contact with a dirt or gravel substrate (eight possible); all were thermally appealing (mean = 2.3 C warmer than ambient temperature). Despite the population of Mesobuthus caucasicus Nordmann 1840 in Ghazni City and the increase in thermally attractive microhabitats on the base, I found no scorpions. I propose that the rapid anthropogenic change due to base improvements outpaces the capacity of this scorpion to disperse to a new, albeit satisfactory, environment. Here, I report my observations of scorpion diversity and abundance in east-central Afghanistan and the Hindu Kush Mountains, with a focus on the impact of increasing anthropogenic change upon the environment.
25654003|Despite the conceptual appeal of how morphological mimics visually distinguish between conspecifics and their models, scant attention has been given to this topic. Accurate discrimination between ants and conspecific spiders is likely to be under strong selection because approaching an ant may result in the spider's death, while approaching a different sex conspecific may result in copulation. I addressed this question by examining responses of the ant-like jumping spider Myrmarachne bakeri Banks 1930 (Salticidae) toward motionless, odorless lures made from dead conspecifics, ants, or lures using components of non-ant-like salticids, ant-like salticids and ants. I found that chelicerae, legs I and body, but not movement, are important cues used by M. bakeri to distinguish conspecifics from ants, but the relative importance of these cues differs depending on a spider's sex.
3705254|The female of Saltonia incerta (Banks) is redescribed, the presence of large tracheal trunks extending into the thorax is recorded, the epigynum is illustrated and S. imperialis Chamberlin and Ivie is placed as a junior synonym. The type locality, now under water, and other collecting sites of this species are discussed. The systematic position of the spider is uncertain because of the agelenid-like external characters and the dictynid-like palpi and tracheal trunks.
3706356|A first attempt to homologize male palpal bulb structures of theraphosine spiders is made, with the aim of providing systematic characters. The morphology and distribution of palpal bulb keels of over 60 species in 27 genera of Theraphosinae is presented and discussed. Four basic groups of keels were recognized and a terminology was created to name them: prolateral inferior and prolateral superior keels, for the two more or less parallel keels found on the prolateral bulb face; apical keel, for the ventral keel located just before the apex of the embolus; subapical keel, for a keel located just before the apical keel; and, retrolateral keel, for the keel located on the retrolateral region, originating on the apical region and extending backwards. Other palpal bulb keels, apart from these four basic groups, as well as other structures, were found in some genera and/or species, constituting apomorphies for these groups.
3705247|Stabilimenta and barrier webs in Argiope argentata orb-webs were investigated on Daphne and Santa Cruz Islands in the Galapagos. Based on this census, I propose that the barrier web supports and strengthens the orb-web and is therefore common in webs found in windy areas, while the stabilimentum is most likely an anti-predator device.
3706328|Whip spiders (Amblypygi) are a small and understudied group of arachnids characterized by long antenniform legs and raptorial pedipalps. Due to their nocturnal habits, secretive nature and geographical distribution there have been very few studies of feeding behavior in this group. Here, we report a remarkable foraging strategy adopted by the giant tropical whip spider Heterophrynus cheiracanthus (Gervais 1844) inhabiting rocky outcrops adjacent to mountain streams running through primary tropical rainforest on the Caribbean island of Tobago. Heterophrynus cheiracanthus positions itself close to the stream edge on a vertical rock surface with pedipalps fully extended and antenniform legs frequently entering the shallow water. Freshwater prawns of the genus Macrobrachium are caught while still submerged in the water despite the whip scorpion being unable to use the trichobothria on the walking legs. Possible mechanisms of prey detection are discussed.
40233838|Surazomus uarini n. sp. is described and illustrated based on specimens collected by beating on understory vegetation of Amazonian "terra firme" upland rain forests. A new cuticular structure, possibly a gland opening, is described on the female tarsus I and terminal flagellum. A putatively homologous structure is reported from the same body parts in an undescribed species of Rowlandius Reddell and Cokendolpher 1995; Stenochrus portoricensis Chamberlin 1922; Mastigoproctus maximus (Tarnani 1889); and Thelyphonellus amazonicus (Butler 1872); suggesting a new synapomorphy for the clade Uropygi (i.e., Schizomida + Thelyphonida).
23070795|The chromosome diploid number (2n) and the sex chromosome system in males of five species belonging to the families Gnaphosidae and Lycosidae were determined as 2n = 22 (20 + XX) and 2n = 28 (26 + XX), respectively. Nomisia conigera (Spassky 1941), Haplodrassus morosus (O. Pickard-Cambridge 1872) and Haplodrassus dalmatensis (L. Koch 1866) have 10 autosomal bivalents and two univalent sex chromosomes, while Pardosa bifasciata (C.L. Koch 1834) and Arctosa cinerea (Fabricius 1777) have 13 autosomal bivalents and two univalent sex chromosomes during first meiotic stages of prophase I and metaphase I. All species have acrocentric chromosomes and chiasmatic meiosis.
25067855|Salticid spiders are a tractable group for studies of learning. We presented Phidippus princeps Peckham & Peckham 1883 with the challenging task of associating prey with color cues in a T-maze. Experimental spiders were given the opportunity to learn that a cricket was hidden behind a block of a particular color. To eliminate the use of other cues, we randomly assigned both block position within the maze, and maze location within the room. For control spiders, no cues predicted the location of prey. We gave spiders two blocks of trials. Each block consisted of four training trials followed by a probe trial in which no prey was present. Trials lasted an hour, and spiders were given one trial per day. Not all spiders were successful in finding the prey during training trials. In the first probe trial, there was no evidence of learning: there was no effect of treatment, the number of successful training trials, or their interaction on which block the spiders chose first. In the second probe trial, there was a significant interaction between treatment and number of successful training trials: experimental-group spiders with a greater number of successful training trials were more likely to choose the correct block in the probe trial. This study demonstrates that P. princeps can learn the location of prey by color cues alone, a challenging task, and adds to the growing literature on learning in spiders.
3705202|A systematic revision of the Schizomus mexicanus and S. pecki species groups (Arachnida, Schizomida, Schizomidae) is presented. The following species are described and assigned to the mexicanus group: S. mulaiki Gertsch, S. bartolo Rowland, S. lukensi Rowland, S. davisi Gertsch, S. reddelli Rowland, S. mexicanus Rowland, S. pallidus Rowland, S. portoricensis (Chamberlin), S. moisii Rowland, S. cookei Rowland, and S. mitchelli Rowland. Three taxa known only from females (Schizomus spp., OTU Nos. 1, 2, and 11) are also briefly described and assigned to the mexicanus group. The following species are described and assigned to the pecki group: S. firstmani Rowland, S. sp. cf. sbordonii Brignoli, S. pecki Rowland, and S. guatemalensis Chamberlin. Brief descriptions are also provided for four taxa assigned to the pecki group that are known only from females (Schizomus spp., OTU Nos. 2, 6, 7 and 8).
3706199|I argue that several unusual aspects of spider sexual biology make them extremely promising subjects for future research on sperm competition and cryptic female choice, and outline promising lines for future research. The important traits include: double, bilaterally symmetrical genitalia (allowing the use of the same animal as experimental and control and thus providing unusually complete controls for experimental manipulations); isolation of male ejaculates in pure form during sperm induction (allowing experimental determination of the effects of sperm and male accessory glands on female reproductive physiology, and separation of their effects on the female from those of copulatory courtship and copulation); frequent venter-up orientation and genitalic meshes in which most of the male genitalia is outside rather than inside the female (allowing unusually complete observations of male genital behavior during copulation); immobile sperm (allowing confident deductions about male and female movement of sperm without complications from motility of the sperm themselves); a huge data set on female as well as male genitalic morphology from previous taxonomic studies (enabling, in combination with studies of the fit between male and female genitalia, studies of the details of how rapid genitalic divergence occurs). Studies of spider sex should be in the forefront of the next generation of studies of sperm competition and cryptic female choice.
3706274|Genitalic polymorphism (including polymorphism of secondary sexual characters) is a typical example of a phenomenon that found no place in taxonomy as there was no framework to place it. Neither the speciation models used in ecology nor the species concept currently in use with taxonomists "allowed" species to have discontinuously polymorphic genitalia. Recent developments in ecological modeling that make sympatric speciation acceptable, and changing ideas about sexual selection, both imply genitalic polymorphism in particular circumstances. According to the mate check hypothesis the presence of hidden but crucial new adaptive characters is checked during courtship and mating. Sympatric speciation with changing behavioral characters without shifts in somatic traits, goes through a phase of intraspecific polymorphism during which the mating module obtains new traits backing up the newly acquired hidden character. It implies that this speciation process ends with the alteration of the recognition module. After the completion of the speciation process, cases of atavism with loss of behavioral adaptations through deleterious mutations or reversions and reappearance of ancestral genital characters, are expected to occur regularly. Without these, the mate check mechanism would be meaningless. A number of examples of both types of genitalic polymorphism in arachnids are presented. It explains why genitalic polymorphism is rarely observed although it might be a common phenomenon.
3705878|To test the effect of prey abundance on the orb spider Zygiella x-notata I conducted two field experiments at the same site. In the first experiment, from 20 June to 9 September 1978, I augmented prey abundance in two plots interspersed within four control plots; at the end of the experiment the mean number of spiders was 2.7 times higher in prey-augmented plots than in control plots, and the difference was highly significant (P = 0.005). In the second experiment, from 25 June to 16 September 1979, I augmented prey abundance in one plot located in between two control plots; at the end of the experiment the number of spiders was > 3.0 times higher in the prey-augmented plot than in each control plot. Although numbers of spiders in the 1979 experiment could not be analyzed statistically because the treatment was not replicated, they support the results of the 1978 experiment. I monitored the phenology of the population at the experimental site and an unmanipulated population at a different site throughout 1978 and 1979. In both years reproduction began earlier in the experimental population than in the unmanipulated population. In 1979 I collected eggs sacs in both populations. The experimental population contained more eggs and heavier eggs than those than in the unmanipulated population. Within the experimental population, egg sacs in the prey-augmented plot contained heavier eggs than those in control plots.
41758983|Animal body traits are scaled relative to overall body size depending on the evolutionary context. Most naturally selected traits are scaled approximately isometrically (constitute a constant proportion of the body size at different body sizes), whereas those under sexual selection tend to present positive static allometry (be proportionally larger in larger individuals). However, there are body traits that might be influenced by both natural and sexual selection. We studied the courtship behavior of the scorpion Centruroides margaritatus (Gervais 1841) and analyzed the static allometry of several body traits. We hypothesized that those traits that were actively used in courtship and seemed to be sexually dimorphic could be under sexual selection. The main sexually dimorphic traits were body size (female larger) and metasoma length (male longer). Although metasoma length of males had a steeper allometric slope (larger males had longer metasoma) than that of females, the slopes did not differ significantly. All body traits measured showed isometry with body size, except that the pecten presented negative allometry in males. Thus the length of the metasoma of males, thought to be influenced by sexual rather than natural selection, did not present positive allometry as expected. Males used the metasoma actively while courting females.
3705389|The ecology of the spider Agelenopsis consociata in rain forest habitats in Gabon was investigated with reference to factors that might underlie its cooperative foraging behavior. Colonies consisted of local clusters of from one to 27 nests and associated web traps. The composition of individual nests also was highly variable, ranging from one adult spider to as many as 1100 adults. Nest survivorship was a positive function of group size as estimated by the number of adult females in a nest. Analysis of the energy budget of single adult females indicated that the high rate of extinction of small nests might result from insufficient prey availabilities during the two rainy seasons when webs are destroyed on 40% of the days. Individuals associated with larger nests do not experience this energy deficit because individual investment in the web trap decreases with increasing colony size. Dispersal problems may also favor the maintenance of groups: we observed heavy predation on individuals that were released experimentally. On the negative side, individual foraging success and production of eggs decreased with increasing nest size in our experimental groups, perhaps due to the deleterious effects of interference. In addition, we consider that the continuity of generations permitted by the equatorial environment fosters the cooperative life style compared to other adaptations that might be exhibited in response to environmentally imposed energy deficits.
3705205| In this work Syndaesia mastix, new genus and new species of solifugid from Argentina is described and placed in the family Daesiidae. The synonymy of Amacataidae Muma 1971 = Daesiidae Roewer 1934 is proposed. The family Daesiidae, known so far in Africa, Spain and the Near Esst is recorded here for the first time in South America, with the following genera for this region: Amacata Muma 1971 and Syndaesia, new genus. The more important similarities between the males of these two genera consist in the presence in both of a tubular flagellum, traversed by a duct and with an opening at each extremity, and also in the structure of the movable cheliceral finger. The principal differences concern the general shape of the flagellum; the structure of the fixed cheliceral finger and the tarsal segmentation and spine-like armature. Except for these two last characters, females of both genera are very similar. /// En este trabajo se describe un nuevo gnero y especie de solfugo de la Argentina: Syndaesia mastix, al cual se ubica en la familia Daesiidae. Se propone la sinonimia Amacataidae Muma 1971 = Daesiidae Roewer 1934. La familia Daesiidae, conocida hasta el momento en Africa, Espaa y Cercano Oriente, es citada aqu por primera vez para Amrica del Sur, con los siguientes gneros para esta regin: Amacata Muma 1971 y Syndaesia, gnero nuevo. Las similitudes ms importantes entre los machos de estos dos gneros consisten en la presencia en ambos de un flagelo tubular, atravesado por un conducto y con una embocadura en cada extremidad, y tambin en la estructura del dedo mvil de los quelceros. Las diferencias principales corresponden a la forma general del flagelo; a la estructura del dedo fijo de los quelceros y a la segmentacin y espinulacin tarsales. Excepto por estos dos ltimos caracteres, las hembras de ambos gneros son muy similares. 
4129848|Studies on the ecology of orb spiders have focused on diurnal spiders, especially field studies. Nocturnal spiders, however, face different conditions due to the type of prey found at night. A field study was conducted to observe the activity of adult females of Eriophora edax in their natural environment, and to analyze their predation efficiency and web retention properties. Most of the spiders were observed around sunset, which suggests that E. edax tends to build webs in the early evening. In order to evaluate the predation efficiency of E. edax we compared its behavior and web retention properties with the behavior of a diurnal orb-weaving spider, Verrucosa arenata. Two prey types, a diurnal Hymenoptera and a nocturnal Lepidoptera, were selected and presented to the spiders, to record approach time and prey capture time. The results showed that E. edax spent more time to capture Hymenoptera than to capture Lepidoptera. During the experiments of web prey retention time, Hymenoptera consistently showed greater tumbling than Lepidoptera, but the total retention time was the same for both prey types. Our results showed that E. edax forages strictly at night and, in terms of prey capture and web retention, was more efficient when preying on Lepidoptera.
3705987|There were 193 schizomids (hubbardids) collected from the soil (0-7 cm depth) during a 12 month study of a primary upland forest
24365281|In many tropical areas of the world, pristine forests have become rare. Nevertheless, due to shifts in the human population the area covered by secondary forests is increasing. These forests may harbor a rich flora and fauna and are considered to be main refuges for species of primary forests. However, this issue is far from clear. To assess the conservation value of secondary forests in the Atlantic Forest of Brazil, we compared the diversity of spiders in differently aged secondary forests with old-growth forests. Within a larger project treating several invertebrate taxa, we sampled spiders using a standard protocol in 24 sites of three successional stages (58, 1520, 3050 years old) and old-growth forests (> 100 years untouched) in two nature reserves. We describe the diversity and structure of the assemblages using morphospecies and genera and analyze richness at the genus level. Generic richness and diversity showed no differences between successional stages; i.e., did not increase from the youngest to older forests, but guild diversity did increase. The youngest stage showed the highest variability in generic composition, and the turnover of genera and species was strong between the younger forests (520 years old) and forests older than 30 years. High alpha diversity, high turnover among sites and the lack of differences in richness between stages support the value of secondary forests for species conservation in the region studied.
3705508| The development and egg sac production of Achaearanea tepidariorum were investigated at 25C and long (16L-8D) or short (10L-14D) photoperiod. The development of nymphs was completed in 30-80 days in 4-6 molts in the male and in 40-100 days in 5-7 molts in the female. Under the long photoperiod, the development of males was accelerated by the omission of one or two molts when food conditions were favorable, but under the short photoperiod such an acceleration tended to be cancelled by prolongation of either the last instar or the last and penultimate instars. This tendency was also observed in the female, but not so clearly as in the male. The development proceeded more speedily in complete darkness than under light. Adult females produced a mean of 9.7 egg sacs at intervals of 8.1 days. The mean egg number per sac showed a gradual decrease with time. The mean total egg number produced per female was 1812.7, and the mean longevity was 116.5 days in the female and 33.9 days in the male. 
4489049|Over the last decade, numerous papers focusing on the fauna of the Canary Islands have reported that many spectacular species radiations have taken place, leading to a very high level of endemicity in this archipelago. The species of the genus Pholcus are a very good example of such a fascinating process. The Canary Islands harbor the highest number of endemic species of this genus. Therefore, in order to obtain a detailed picture of the diversity and the phylogeny of the Canarian Pholcus, a complete taxonomic revision is required. The present work is the second contribution to achieve this goal. Three new species of Pholcus are described: Pholcus bimbache, P. anachoreta and P. corniger. The first endemic species of Pholcus from El Hierro (P. bimbache) is reported; P. anachoreta is the only Pholcus species found on the Montana Clara Islet; and P. corniger is the second and most troglomorphic species known from Tenerife.
3706322| We report a case of cohabitation between an adult male and a conspecific subadult female Lycosa tarantula (Linnaeus 1758) (Araneae, Lycosidae). Cohabitation was observed during a field study in a population near Madrid city (central Spain). The male was first observed in the female burrow four days before the female maturation molt. Both individuals remained together until female maturation occurred. Mating occurred two days after female maturation, at a much younger age than non-cohabiting females. The possible mechanisms by which adult males find subadult female burrows are discussed. /// Describimos un caso de cohabitacin entre un macho adulto y una hembra subadulta de Lycosa tarantula (Linnaeus 1758) (Araneae, Lycosidae). Observamos la cohabitacin durante un estudio de campo realizado cerca de la ciudad de Madrid, en el centro de Espaa. Encontramos por primera vez al macho en el interior del nido de la hembra cuatro das antes de la maduracin de sta. Los dos animales permanecieron en el nido todo ese tiempo, y se aparearon dos das despus de la muda de maduracin de la hembra. Esto ocurri a una edad muy inferior a la de las hembras que no cohabitaron con ningn macho. Discutimos los posibles mecanismos por los que los machos adultos encuentran los nidos de las hembras subadultas. 
4129818|The lifespan of Y. arenarius is about 720 days for males and 750 days for females (maximum 770 days), which makes it the longest lived salticid reported from natural conditions. The juvenile spiders emerge at the beginning of June and mature not before the following August. They mate in autumn and hibernate for the second time. For most of the year two cohorts coexist, and at the beginning of June three cohorts can be found simultaneously. The life cycle suggests that in the studied areas there are two groups of individuals, the first of which produces young in odd years, while the other group reproduces in even years. The spider lifespan and phenology suggest no or limited gene flow between the groups.
3706021| For one year we studied the habitat use of Peucetia viridans living on Cnidoscolus aconitifolius, in a pasture land in Mrida, Yucatn, Mxico. Highest spider density was recorded in August (total 118, adults 77), and lowest in May (total 7, adults 2). Spider density was significantly higher in isolated plants and lower in plants in a patch. Sex ratio (: ) varied from 1:1.5 in April, to 1:1 in May, and to 1:0.1 in September. The dominant instar (both sexes) changed during the study. Throughout the study more spiders were recorded in 'repose' than performing any other activity. Foraging and feeding were more intense between July and September, when their prey, flower visitors, were more abundant. The number of spiders on plants varied spatially and temporally due to the combined effects of distance of the individual plant to the nearby forest, monthly precipitation, plant height, and number of panicles in anthesis. Forty-eight percent of the spiders were found living on plants with 20-30 panicles in anthesis (2% of the plant population). Most of the spiders (except for adult females) were found either below or above leaves. There were no significant differences in the distribution of most stadia respective to plant height. Positive significant correlations were found between the number of spiders and the abundance of floral visitors when the data were compared shifted-back one month, and between the number of spiders and the number of panicles in bloom when the data were compared shifted-back two months. When the abundance of spiders, floral visitors and number of panicles in bloom were correlated to monthly precipitation, we found a positive significant correlation for spider abundance when the data were compared shifted-back three months, a significant negative correlation for floral visitors when the data were compared shifted-back two months, and a nonsignificant correlation for the number of panicles in bloom, although both (panicles and floral visitors) peaked in May. 
3704991|Geographical and seasonal distributions of 26 common, systematically-collected, North American solpugids are analyzed. Geographic isolation and the premating isolating mechanisms of season, habitat, morphology, behavior and activity-time are inferred to be operative in preventing interspecific breeding.
3706279|In this study our objectives were to describe the diversity and characteristics of spider families occurring in a range of habitat types within a typical savanna ecosystem, to assess the influence of habitat type and seasonality on spider diversity and to determine levels of similarity between habitat types based on species composition. The study was conducted at Makalali Private Game Reserve, Northern Province, South Africa. Five different habitat types were sampled using four trapping techniques (sweeping, beating, active searching and pitfalls). A total of 4832 individuals including 268 species from 38 families were sampled during the study. Families showed varying degrees of habitat fidelity with some being widespread and abundant while others were restricted to a single site and were locally rare. Sites with similar habitat types showed a similarity in spider family composition. All sites have unique species compositions and overall diversity, evenness and richness of spiders do not differ with habitat type. However, analyses of functional groups, e.g., web builders and plant wanderers, showed the positive influence of structural complexity of the habitat. The presence of unique species in all habitats highlights the importance of conserving as wide array of representative habitats within ecosystems. The appearance of strong seasonal patterns in species composition also has important implications for the development of protocols for sampling species diversity. The savanna has a surprising diversity of spiders when compared to other biomes surveyed in South Africa. Factors influencing this diversity beyond the broader habitat variables measured in this study need to be investigated.
3705092|Composition of the arboreal spider community of three coniferous tree species (red pine, white spruce, and white cedar) was studied in northern Minnesota. The number of species of spiders found on each tree species was similar (22-25 spp.), although there was low similarity of species composition between trees. Numbers of adult individuals varied greatly between trees. Each tree species contained approximately the same proportions of web building and hunting spiders, indicating some basic resource similarity of the trees. Significant differences in composition of hunting spiders and web-building spiders at the family level were found. The importance of vegetative structure in determining the composition of each group is discussed relative to structural differences of the trees and aspects of the natural history of the spiders.
3706158|Spiders were sampled from organically farmed and conventionally farmed winter wheat fields at three sites in southern England, UK, using pitfall traps. A range of vegetation variables was also recorded from each field. We identified 56 species of spiders from 8609 individuals in our study samples. Most species caught belong to the Linyphiidae, with especially high captures of Oedothorax spp., Erigone spp., Lepthyphantes tenuis (Blackwall 1852), Bathyphantes gracilis (Blackwall 1841) and Meioneta rurestris (C.L. Koch 1836). The Lycosidae were also well represented by Pardosa and Trochosa spp., although the samples were largely dominated by the presence of Pardosa palustris (Linnaeus 1758). More spiders, and more species of spiders, were captured from organic than from conventional fields. Principal Component Analyses suggested that the spider communities differed between the contrasting systems. Our results showed that more spiders, and a greater number of spider species, were captured with increasing abundance of understory vegetation within the crop, both overall and within each farming system.
3705378|Overwintering egg cases of the black and yellow garden spider, Argiope aurantia Lucas (Araneae: Araneidae), were observed during the late winter and early spring of 1985, 1986, and 1987 in Washington County, Mississippi. Of 120 egg cases monitored in the field in 1985, only three remained undamaged by the period of peak spiderling emergence in May. An additional 115 field-collected egg cases were observed in the laboratory in 1985. A total of 23,840 A. aurantia spiderlings emerged from the lab egg cases (mean = 341), with 1212 spiderlings emerging from one undamaged egg case. Adults or pupae of either the parasitic ichneumonid wasp, Tromatopia rufopectus (Cr.), or the parasitic chloropid fly, Pseudogaurax signatus (Loew), emerged from 56% of the field-collected egg cases. Nineteen species of insects, representing 19 genera, 15 families and 5 orders were collected from lab-reared egg cases in 1985. In addition, 11 species of spiders were recovered from A. aurantia egg cases. In 1985, 97% of the egg cases observed in the field showed evidence of bird damage. In both 1986 and 1987, 100% of the egg cases were damaged by birds.
25434311|Cryptocellus platnicki sp. nov. is described on the basis of specimens of both sexes from two localities in northwestern Colombia. The new species, which is most similar to C. glenoides Cooke & Shadab 1973, brings to 64 the known species of living ricinuleids, and becomes the sixth known from Colombia.
24717335|Preliminary observations suggested that the Neotropical harvestman Jussara sp. (Sclerosomatidae, Eupnoi) had a patchy distribution and a marked seasonality, comparable to species in the Northern hemisphere. This would be an unusual pattern, since conditions of temperature and humidity are very different between tropical and temperate environments. Using a mark-recapture method, we investigated the phenology, habitat use and individual movement of Jussara sp. in a tropical rainforest in southern Brazil. We found a very marked seasonality in the population of adults, with a positive correlation between temperature, humidity and number of adults found. Adults were found only in the wet and warm months and significantly preferred the plant Psycothria suterella (Rubiaceae) as a resting substrate, spending the days motionless on its leaves, often in groups. The same individuals were found for a maximum of three months after their first capture, 30 m from their original site of capture. At night, the harvestmen would descend from the plants, forage and interact with conspecifics on the leaf litter. In this first long term behavioral study with a representative of the suborder Eupnoi in Brazil, we provide quantitative evidence that, despite the milder climate, Neotropical harvestmen may show a seasonality similar to the seasonality shown by related species in temperate regions.
3705963|Spiders of the family Liphistiidae collected from northern Vietnam are taxonomically studied. Two new species of the genus Heptathela are described under the names, H. abca (from Yen Bai) and H. cucphuongensis (from Cuc Phuong National Park). Some natural history and zoogeographic notes of the new species are given.
24717272|We estimated a multigenic molecular phylogeny and reconstructed biogeographic history for the European harvestman genus Ischyropsalis C.L. Koch 1839 (Dyspnoi). To reconstruct historical biogeographic patterns we conducted an algorithmic VIP analysis which revealed patterns consistent with a vicariance-dominated history. The existing morphology-based systematic framework for Ischyropsalis is mostly inconsistent with molecular phylogenetic results, and a new informal system is established that recognizes three main clades and several sub-clades. Species-level analyses revealed two non-monophyletic species (I. pyrenaea Simon 1872 and I. luteipes Simon 1872); subspecies of I. pyrenaea are distant relatives, and are formally elevated to species (I. pyrenaea pyrenaea to I. pyrenaea and I. pyrenaea alpinula to I. alpinula). A preference for cryophilic microhabitats has favored the diversification of high-altitude and cave-dwelling Ischyropsalis species; molecular phylogenetic data suggest that cave-dwelling species have evolved multiple times independently.
20617591|Eight spider species of the genus Coelotes from Central Asia and the Near East currently assigned to the charitonovi species group are described. Four species, Coelotes charitonovi Spassky 1939, C. juglandicola Ovtchinnikov 1984, C. nenilini Ovtchinnikov 1999, and C. turkestanicus Ovtchinnikov 1999 are previously known from both sexes, and four others, C. caudatus de Blauwe 1973, C. arganoi Brignoli 1978, C. coenobita Brignoli 1978, and C. vignai Brignoli 1978 are known only from females. The dorsal views of the epigynum of C. juglandicola, C. caudatus, and C. vignai are illustrated and described for the first time.
3706007|Evidence is growing that spiders can be effective biological control agents, particulary assemblages of several species. Other evidence finds that spiders prey on each other and other generalist predators, and as such are of limited value in biological control. Such predatory interactions between species which use similar resources have been dubbed intraguild predation (IGP) due to their potential to modify competition as well as cause direct mortality. IGP interactions can have unexpected effects at other trophic levels, and sometimes result in enhancement of a pest population. In this paper I review the evidence for intraguild predation interactions involving spiders in natural systems, and other generalist predators in agroecosystems. To date not much research has examined whether such interactions influence spider biological control potential. Some suggestions as to how we might begin to address these issues are presented.
25067851|The venoniine wolf spider genus Allotrochosina Roewer 1960 currently includes two species, A. schauinslandi Simon 1899 from New Zealand (type species) and A. karri Vink 2001 from Western Australia. A third species of this genus, A. walesiana new species from New South Wales, Australia, is here described. Some differences in genital morphology of A. walesiana in comparison to A. schauinslandi and A. karri in combination with a misinterpretation of genitalic characters in previous treatments of the genus require a new diagnosis for Allotrochosina. The genus is characterized by the presence of a distinct apical process on the embolic division of the male pedipalp. Allotrochosina walesiana appears to be winter mature since adult spiders have only been found between June and October. Additional records of A. karri, which was previously only known from the type locality, Crowea in southwest Western Australia, extend the known distribution by more than 600 km to the North.
3705972|The distinctive prolateral spination of the metatarsi and tibiae of the first two legs in Mimetus is obscure in the first post-eggsac eclosion instar. Only one of the small, acuminate tipped macrosetae appears in the first instar, small macroseta numbers increase in the second instar, and outnumber the large macrosetae by the third instar. The high variability in adult macroseta counts occurs in the third instar as well. The characteristic macrosetae have a socketed base and longitudinally grooved shafts. The large macrosetae are characterized by numbers of small pustules on the base below the emergence of the shaft and the tips of the macrosetae are round. The small macrosetae have fewer pustules or none, and the tips of the macrosetae are falcate and acuminate. Both the large and small macrosetae morphologically resemble presumptive mechano-receptive setae on the legs, and may have a sensory function.
3705393|Since the earliest studies of social behavior in spiders, their social structure has often been compared with that of social insects. A preliminary conclusion was that the degree of evolution of spider societies was significantly lower than that found in insects. However, we wonder if the problem has been correctly posed. In light of Wilson's and Michener's works, enriched by those of the French School (Grasse, LeMasne), we accept the definition of insect societies with all the terms which seem necessary to characterize them, namely inter-attraction and its multiple consequences, social polymorphism and dominance. In our analysis, we evoke overlap of generations and the foundation of societies to demonstrate the inherent contradiction of comparing social behavior of insects and spiders. The sociality of spiders, which actually seems to exclude the dominance and hierarchy of individuals, is paradoxically catalogued among inferior societies. With insight gained from recent studies, we suggest here that social evolution in spiders has developed along a clearly alternate track, which has rarely been followed in the animal kingdom. This type of egalitarian society is difficult to achieve in nature, and thus it is quite rare; and social spiders, whose societies are based on this principle, represent in fact very few species.
3705383|The opilionid genus Chileogovea is reviewed and a new species, Chileogovea jocasta, from Malleco Province, Chile, described. Some supplementary illustrations and new records from mainland Chile of the type species, C. oedipus Roewer, are provided.
3705851|Rhomphaea sp. from New Zealand captures other spiders which wander onto its web, and ventures onto other spiders' webs to capture the resident. Rhomphaea captures spiders by using aggressive mimicry to lure the victim and by throwing a sticky triangular net over the prey. The importance of this unusual method of capturing spiders is discussed in relation to the evolution of this spider.
3705935|Pacific salticids of the genera Athamas, Bianor, Efate, Ergane, Euophrys, Evarcha, Holoplatys, Myrmarachne, Omoedus, Palpelius, Phintella, and Zenodorus are discussed. Eighteen new species are described: Bianor obak, Bianor vitiensis, Efate fimbriatus, Efate raptor, Ergane carinata, Euophrys wanyan, Euophrys kororensis, Euophrys bryophila, Evarcha reiskindi, Holoplatys carolinensis, Myrmarachne edentata, Myrmarachne pisarskii, Myrmarachne edwardsi, Omoedus cordatus, Palpelius namosi, Palpelius trigyrus, Phintella planiceps, and Zenodorus ponapensis. Illustrations and distribution records are presented for all new species. In the widespread species Athamas whitmeei, morphological variation on several islands is illustrated. Efate albobicinctus and Zenodorus microphthalmus are illustrated for comparison with newly described species.
3705543| Development and reproduction of the red grass spider, Florinda coccinea (Hentz), from South Carolina were studied under laboratory conditions (26  2 C). Both males and females required five molts to reach maturity, although 10% of the males had one supernumerary molt. Once mature, females lived approximately one month, or nearly twice as long as males. Laboratory-reared females produced as many as six fertile egg sacs, whereas field-collected females produced up to ten sacs. The first sac of laboratory-reared females had the largest average clutch size - about 70 eggs. The reproductive capacity of females mated with unmated males versus those mated with previously mated males was not significantly different. 
3705980| Courtship and mating behavior of Brachypelma klaasi, heretofore unknown, is described on the basis of three courtship and mating sequences, one in captivity and two in the field. Adult males perform courtship movements (pedipalp drumming, leg drumming, push-up and shaking) when they locate a female's burrow, probably in order to avoid female aggression. After some physical contact, the female raises the prosoma and extends her chelicerae. The male then grasps her chelicerae with his tibial apophyses and the female arches her body backwards leaving the epigynum exposed. The male starts boxing the female's sternum and presumably inserts his pedipalps and inseminates the female. In two cases the female vigorously attacked the male immediately after mating and probably would have killed him had observers not intervened; the other pair separated more slowly and peacefully. Males appear to use chemical and/or tactile cues from the female's silk around the burrow during short-range searching behavior. Males begin courtship behavior by drumming on the silk to signal to the female that he is present. One male of B. klaasi observed in the field laid silk over the female's silk around the burrow, possibly to prevent subsequent matings by other males. A second male did not detect the burrow after this act. /// Se describe el cortejo y apareamiento de Brachypelma klaasi, hasta ahora desconocidos con base en tres secuencias de cortejo y apareamiento, una en cautiverio y dos en campo. Los machos adultos realizan movimientos de cortejo (tamborileo con pedipalpos, tamborileo con patas, lagartijas y temblado) cuando localizan nidos de hembras, probablemente para evitar la agresion de las mismas. Despus de un periodo de contacto fsico la hembra levanta el prosoma y evierte los quelceros. El macho prende los quelceros de la hembra con sus apfisis tibiales y la hembra se arquea hacia atrs exponiendo el epigineo. El macho boxea contra el esternn de la hembra y se asume que inserta sus pedipalpos y la insemina. En dos casos la hembra atac al macho inmediatamente despus del apareamiento y probablemente lo hubiera matado de no haber intervenido el observador, la tercera pareja se separ ms lenta y pacficamente. Aparentemente los machos utilizan seales qumicas o tactiles de la seda de la hembra alrededor del nido durante la bsqueda de corto alcance. Los machos inician el cortejo tamborileando en la seda, probablemente para anunciar su presencia a la hembra. Un macho de B. klaasi observado en el campo depsito seda sobre la de la hembra alrededor del nido, posiblemente para evitar copulas subsecuentes de otros machos. Un segundo macho no pareci detectar el nido despus de la conducta mencionada. 
3705800| A species of Linothele (Dipluridae), was studied in Soberana Park (Panam) and the lower elevation, more humid Department of Choc (Colombia). The purpose of the study was to determine behavior related to web construction, prey capture, design and trophic efficiency of the web, food source, migration, agonistic behavior and associated kleptoparasites. Differences between temperatures during the day were also studied inside and outside the spider's retreat. Positive correlations in the variables of body weight vs. body length; weight vs. diameter of the web orifice; body weight vs. the maximum web dimension; body length vs. maximum web diameter were found in both zones. The webs of these spiders are characterized by having a number of associated symbionts, some of them true kleptoparasites. The spiders discriminate in their choice of prey and are most active at night. There was no evidence that they could excavate their own retreat cavities and they showed high levels of inter- and intraspecific agonistic interactions. /// El trabajo se inici en el Parque de la Soberana de Panam y se continu en Colombia (Departamento del Choc), siendo sta ltima rea mucho ms lluviosa y de menor altitud. Se trabaj con una especie do Linothele (Dipluridae) con el objetivo de estudiar algunos patrones de comportamiento relacionados con su conducta tejedora; manejo de la presa, patrn y eficiencia trfica de la tela, posibles fuentes de alimento, capacidad migratoria, conducta agonstica, cleptoparasitismos, ciclos trmicos entre las 0800; 1200; 1600; 2000, de la temperatura ambiental y la del interior de la cueva; adems de algunos aspectos ecolgicos. La correlacin de variables (peso x largo corporal; peso corporal x el mayor valor de la dimensin de la tela; peso x dimetro del orificio de la tela; largo corporal x dimetro y por mayor valor de la tela), evidenciaron en las dos zonas de estudios, coeficientes positivos. Adems, las telas de estas araas se caracterizaron por presentar un buen nmero de simbiontes asociados, algunos ocasionales y otros verdaderos cleptoparsitos. Se encontr que discriminaban presas y no dieron evidencia que contruyen sus propias cuevas; su mayor actividad es nocturna y presenta un alto grado de conducta agonstica intra e interespecfica. 
25067840|The new species Eukoenenia maroccana is described from six specimens (two males, two females and two immatures) collected in Kef Aziza Cave, Morocco, and is distinguished from all other Eukoenenia species by the presence of thickened opisthosomal glandular setae in males on sternites IV-VI. The genitalia and chaetotaxy of both adult sexes show differences from other species of Eukoenenia and are discussed in this paper. /// Se describe Eukoenenia maroccana a partir de seis ejemplares (dos machos, dos hembras y dos inmaduros) capturados en la gruta de Kef Aziza, Marruecos. Lo ms destacable y del todo singular de esta nueva especie es la particular presencia de setas glandulares esternales engrosadas del macho, la genitalia y resto de quetotaxia de ambos sexos.
3705028|The predatory behavior of the spitting spider Scytodes sp. was studied in the laboratory, and an ethogram of the predatory behavior was developed. The principal components usually occur in the order: tapping, spitting, biting, wrapping, feeding. Spitting results in a pair of sticky, zig-zag, transverse bands which pin the prey to the substrate. At the capture site scytodids wrap the prey using the typical form seen in the "higher" spiders: the spider holds the prey in both third legs and alternates the use of right and left fourth legs in applying silk. Prey are eaten at the capture site. A comparison of prey wrapping by spiders in primitive aerial-web building species with that used by typically "vagrant" species which forage on elevated substrates shows two very different forms of prey wrapping. We argue that prey wrapping at the capture site is an early adaptation of spider radiation into the aerial niche based on the presence of one form or the other in most taxa foraging above ground. Further, the extreme similarity of form of prey wrapping in "higher" spiders which build aerial webs is indicative of a stronger selective pressure for efficient prey handling than for actual prey capture behavior or web geometry.
4129867|Knowledge of the male genitalia of the Atemnidae is still limited, although several authors have previously contributed to our understanding of their structure. This study deals with the morphology and configuration of the male genital organs. Forty-four species belonging to 16 different genera have been investigated, including species of 4 genera of Miratemninae. Anatemnus longus Beier 1932 is synonymized with A. voeltzkowi (Ellingsen 1908), Paratemnoides ceylonicus (Beier 1932) is synonymized with P. pallidus (Balzan 1892), and P. minor (Balzan 1892) with P. nidificator (Balzan 1888). Tamenus equestroides (Ellingsen 1906) is moved to the genus Cyclatemnus. The genitalia of the investigated specimens are described and a general diagnostic description of the male genitalia of the family is given. The study reveals an overall uniformity in the genitalic configuration of the family, which indicates monophyly. With respect to the affinities with other families of the Cheliferoidea, the male genitalia suggest that the Atemnidae might be closer to the Withiidae than to the Cheliferidae or Chernetidae. Claimed differences between the Atemninae and Miratemninae are considered, but the morphology of the male genitalia does not support their division into two families. Comparison of species of the genera Anatemnus, Catatemnus, Oratemnus and Paratemnoides reveals greater variation within the genera than between different genera. This infers that the present systematic grouping of species does not reflect true phylogenetic relationships within the family.
25067884|The genus Mecynometa contains one species, M. globosa O. Pickard-Cambridge 1889 that has three new synonyms. However, species belonging to two distinct genera, Alcimosphenus and Opas, had been included. Opas includes six known species. Two other Mecynometa species based on males, are synonyms of each other and appear to be the otherwise missing male of the common West Indian Alcimosphenus licinus Simon 1895. Male palpi of species of the three genera are illustrated for the first time. Three species of Leucauge are synonymized.
3706092| The Brazilian solifuge Mummucia mauryi new species (Solifugae, Mummuciidae) from sand dunes of the So Francisco River, in semiarid caatinga domain, is herein described, with illustrations of the main taxonomic characters. This is the first species of Solifugae described from the Brazilian caatinga. The specimens were collected in pitfall traps during both the rainy and dry seasons. It exhibits diurnal activity and a clumped distribution (Morisita's index = 3.32 and 1.38 for rainy and dry season, respectively). Sun-exposed areas were avoided during the dry season, when preference for the cactacean Opuntia inamoena was detected. We suggest this association is related to predator avoidance. /// O solfugo Mummucia mauryi (Solifugae, Mummuciidae)  descrito a partir de exemplares coletados nas dunas interiores do Rio So Francisco (BA), com ilustraes dos principais caracteres taxonmicos. Esta  a primeira espcie de Solifugae descrita para o domnio da caatinga semi-rida. Estudos sobre a autoecologia indicam atividade diurna; distribuio do tipo agregado (ndice de Morisita = 3.32 e 1.38 para as estaes chuvosa e seca, respectivamente); preferncia negativa por reas mais expostas  insolao durante a estao seca e preferncia pela cactcea Opuntia inamoena, o que sugerimos estar relacionado  proteo contra predadores. 
24365316|Vision is a remarkable sensory adaptation; however, natural selection may not favor maintenance of eye function in habitats where eyesight does not contribute to fitness. Vision loss is relatively common in cave-dwelling spiders in the temperate zone, but appears rarer in tropical caves. To date, blind spiders in the (sub)tropical Caribbean have only been described from Cuba and Jamaica, including four pholcids, a barychelid, a ctenid, and a prodidomid with reduced eyes. In our survey of over 40 caves in the Greater Antilles, mainly Puerto Rico, Isla Mona, Cuba, and Dominican Republic, we have not previously found any eyeless spiders. Here we summarize information on blind Caribbean spiders, and describe two newly discovered species representing two families, from a single cave, Cueva Seibo, in the Dominican Republic. These are the eyeless Ciba seibo n. gen., n. sp. (Ctenidae) and the vestigial-eyed Trichopelma maddeni n. sp. (Barychelidae). Cueva Seibo appears to be an energy-poor system with a relatively small bat population and is physiologically unique amongst caves we surveyed. We postulate that troglobiomorphism in the Caribbean may result from individual cave environments and hypothesize convergent eye loss within this cave, as most members of both families, including epigean species from the Dominican Republic, have normal eyes. However, another blind species, Ciba calzada (Alayn 1985) n. comb., occurs in a cave in Cuba and it remains to be tested if eye loss occurred in these two convergently, or if their shared lack of eyes is homologous.
3706041|The groenlandica subgroup, which currently stands as a component of the Pardosa modica group, is characterized by a flat conductor tip in the male palpus and comprises P. groenlandica (Thorell 1872), P. dromaea (Thorell 1878), P. bucklei Kronestedt 1975, P. tristis (Thorell 1877), and P. prosaica Chamberlin & Ivie 1947. Neotypes are designated to stabilize each of the Thorellian names iracunda, dromaea and tristis, all original material relevant to these names having been lost or destroyed.
3706173|Stegodyphus mimosarum of the African savanna form communal nests consisting of few to several hundred individuals and co-operate in nest construction and maintenance, brood care and prey capture. We tested large and small individuals for differential responses to different prey risk types. To date, there has been no conclusive evidence of tasking in these or other social spiders. If tasking occurs, small spiders should approach and attempt to subdue less dangerous prey items such as flies more often than the more dangerous prey items such as bees. Hungry individuals were significantly more willing to venture out of the nest refuge and thus accept the costs associated with prey capture than were satiated spiders. Apparent depletion of poison in previous prey captures did not significantly affect an individual's response to a prey item. Spiders treated more dangerous prey (bees) more carefully than less dangerous prey (flies), but there was no difference in the response of large versus small spiders to prey. The two-way interaction between spider size and prey type was never statistically significant, indicating a lack of tasking in this species.
3706227|Adult females of the wolf spider Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844) are known to show adaptive antipredator responses in the presence of chemical cues (silk and excreta) from the larger cooccurring wolf spider Hogna helluo (Walckenaer 1837). We tested if the presence of H. helluo cues affected P. milvina spiderling dismounts from their mothers. Immediately after females opened their egg sacs, we counted offspring and placed spiderling-carrying females on one of three experimental substrates: 1) container previously occupied for 24 h by an adult conspecific female, 2) container previously occupied for 24 h by a juvenile H. helluo equal in mass to an adult P. milvina, or 3) a control container devoid of either cue. We then measured the proportion of spiderlings that dismounted from their mothers over a sixday period. Spiderling dismounts peaked by day three, after which spiderlings tended to return to their mother. During day one, significantly fewer spiderlings were dismounted from the mother in containers previously occupied by a juvenile H. helluo compared to other treatments. There was no significant difference in dismounts among treatments during days 2-6. Since spiderlings were maximally dismounted by day three, we suggest that spiderlings may tend to disperse into areas with fewer H. helluo.
23070793|The Leiobunum calcar species-group is erected to accommodate four species of North American harvestmen, namely, L. nigropalpi (Wood 1868), L. euserratipalpe new species, L. calcar (Wood 1868) and L. hoffmani new species. The group is characterized by several sexually dimorphic characters, including an elongate penis lacking subterminal sacs, base of male palpal tibia projecting ventrally and denticulate, and unique female sterno-opercular mechanism that appears to act as a pregenital barricade. The four species are distinguished by penial and palpal features in the male and by details of the sterno-opercular mechanism in females. The history of confusion between L. serratipalpe Roewer 1910 and L. calcar is reviewed, and the new species L. euserratipalpe is proposed to accommodate the concept of L. serratipalpe developed by North American systematists as well as the synonymy of L. serratipalpe Roewer with L. calcar. All species are diagnosed, described and illustrated, and a key to species is provided.
3704986|New records, measurements, and morphometric ratios are provided for Chamberlin's western North American species: Apocheiridium ferumoides, A. inexpectum and A. mormon; and descriptions are given for three new species from Oregon: A. bulbifemorum, A. granochelum and A. fergusoni. A key to these six species is included.
3706156|The male and nest of Poecilomigas basilleupi Benoit 1962 are described based on specimens from Tanzania. Poecilomigas basilleupi nests have a single door, differing in this regard from the two-door nests of Poecilomigas abrahami (O.P. Cambridge 1889). A revised key to Poecilomigas species is presented.
24717318|Bioindicators could act as early warning indicators of environmental changes, ecosystem stress or taxonomic diversity. Pseudoscorpions have rarely been used as bioindicators, due to lack of information about their ecology, habitat selection, niche preferences and requirements, especially in southern Nothofagus forests. We studied the distribution and abundance of a pseudoscorpion species, Neochelanops michaelseni (Simon 1902), in different vegetation types (Nothofagus antarctica and N. pumilio forests, grasslands and peatlands) and examined how this species responded to different forest uses (harvesting and silvopastoral management), to explore its utility as a bioindicator. The study was conducted on long-term plots located at two ranches in Tierra del Fuego, using pit-fall traps during one summer. Neochelanops michaelseni abundance was higher in Nothofagus forests than in open ecosystems, which could be attributed to their affinity for litter and coarse woody debris. In N. pumilio forests, the pseudoscorpions were sensitive to harvesting, with similar abundances in harvested forests (aggregated and dispersed retentions) and grasslands. In N. antarctica forests, differences were not detected among unmanaged and silvopastoral managed forests, probably due to higher understory plant growth, and lesser diminishing of litter and debris by thinning than by harvesting. We conclude that the pseudoscorpion, N. michaelseni, can be a good bioindicator for ecosystem conservation and for evaluating recovery rate in the ecological conditions of impacted Nothofagus forests, and that management practice intensities should be regulated to create more suitable habitats for pseudoscorpion diversity conservation.
3705623|External reproductive organs of spiders are often species-specific and are important taxonomic characters in species identification. One explanation of this is the mechanical isolation or lock-and-key hypothesis. It predicts that in closely related species with overlapping ranges, morphological character displacement should occur in regions of sympatry to prevent costly interspecific copulation attempts. To test this hypothesis, we measured homologous external genital sclerites of male Larinioides (Nuctenea) sclopetaria and L. patagiata (Araneidae) and statistically compared their means and variances for sympatric and allopatric regions of their distribution. Differences in both mean and variance were observed, but the number of sclerites that differed between regions of sympatry and allopatry was not greater than the number that differed between adjacent regions of sympatry. Thus, these species failed to demonstrate the character displacement predicted by the mechanical isolation hypothesis.
3705662|Embryo chromosome preparations of four species of social spiders of the genus Anelosimus show that the two species known or suspected to form permanent, multigenerational colonies, A. eximius and A. domingo, have a highly female-biased primary sex ratio. Anelosimus jucundus and A. studiosus, on the other hand, are shown to produce an even number of males and females. The magnitude of the bias of A. eximius embryos is similar to that reported for young preadult spiders of this species, therefore ruling out differential mortality of juveniles as the cause of this species' sex ratio bias. Chromosome counts of nuclei in second division of A. eximius male meiosis indicate that nuclei destined to yield sons and daughters are produced in equal numbers. Therefore, the sex ratio biasing mechanism in this species must act after male meiosis and before egg laying. The question of how early the sex ratio bias arises still needs to be resolved in other social spiders. We discuss some methodological and theoretical complications associated with measuring sex ratios at different stages of the life cycle and present a fast and reliable technique to obtain embryo chromosome preparations.
3706316|This study revises the status of knowledge of the spider fauna of the Marquesas Islands in French Polynesia. In particular, the genus Tetragnatha was noticeable for its poor representation in the Marquesas Islands by comparison with the large radiation in the yet more remote Polynesian archipelago of the Hawaiian Islands. Expeditions were conducted to determine whether Tetragnatha was indeed poorly represented in the Marquesas Islands, as the literature would suggest. In addition, specimens were studied from historical collections from this archipelago. The results indicate that the islands do indeed have a number of endemic Tetragnatha, and the genus does appear to have undergone adaptive radiation, although not nearly on the same scale as in the Hawaiian Islands. Results indicate that: (1) in addition to T. marquesiana Berland there are four new species, described here, each of which are endemic to the islands. Tetragnatha marquesiana is widespread in the northern islands, including Nuku Hiva. There are two additional species on Nuku Hiva: T. punua and T. oomua. Two new species are described from the southern islands of Hiva Oa (T. kapua) and Tahuata (T. tahuata). Tetragnatha kapua from Hiva Oa appears to be related to T. marquesiana. (2) Tetragnatha macilenta L. Koch does not occur on these islands. Reports of its widespread distribution through the Pacific can only be substantiated as far as the Society Islands. (3) Tetragnatha nitens (Audouin), which may not be indigenous, occurs in disturbed areas at high elevations in Nuku Hiva. In total, there are six species of Tetragnatha in the Marquesas Islands.
4489063| The distribution of female Leucauge venusta (Walckenaer 1841) in a coffee plantation in southern Mexico was studied in order to determine the vertical distribution of this spider. Principal component analysis clearly identified the presence of three distinct groups of L. venusta webs, based on the number of spirals/web and principally on the height at which the webs were located; most L. venusta webs (63/100) were close to the ground. Spiders on high webs (153.8  3.6 cm above ground, mean  S.E.) were significantly larger and heavier than spiders on lower webs. Large spiders had significantly larger, better developed ovaries, than smaller conspecifics, presumably indicative of sexual maturity. Significantly more insects were captured by sticky traps placed at 50 cm height than in the traps placed at 150 cm height; the most numerous captures were Diptera. However, insects caught at 150 cm were significantly larger than those caught at 50 cm above ground. We concluded that as sexual development proceeds, the spider increases the height at which the web is constructed. This vertical migration is associated with changes in web construction and the type of prey captured. These results are discussed in terms of intraspecific competition, predation risks and sexual selection. 
3705525| Spiders from a total of 24 genera and eight families that possessed prey were collected using direct observation and sweep sampling during a survey of seven stands of wild (four sites) and abandoned (three sites) cranberry bogs in Massachusetts. Over all sites, 7009 spiders were inspected and 2.7% of all individuals possessed prey. At the wild bogs, Lycosidae and Araneidae were most commonly collected and at the abandoned bogs, Oxyopidae and Tetragnathidae were most common. A total of 11 orders of prey was observed and small Diptera (39.4% of total) (particularly Chironimidae), Collembola (18.6%), Homoptera (11.7%) (particularly Cicadellidae), and small Hymenoptera (9%) were the most common prey items. For all sites, three species of spider [Pardosa saxatilis Hentz (Lycosidae), Oxyopes salticus Hentz (Oxyopidae), and Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz (Tetragnathidae)] represented 58% (109/188) of all specimens collected with prey. Sixty-seven percent of the prey recovered from P. saxatilis were Diptera or Collembola; another 20% were identified as Homoptera and Araneae. Collembola (35%) and Diptera (24%) were the dominant prey captured by O. salticus, and no predation on spiders by this species was observed. The majority of T. laboriosa with prey possessed chironomids (63%) or homopterans (17%). Dvac samples of vegetation, taken during the study to determine levels of the total potential prey, showed that the most abundant orders were Collembola, Diptera, and Araneae and Hymenoptera and that the number and type of prey taken by spiders fluctuated with the relative abundance of potential prey. 
3705732|Hebestatis lanthanus (Araneae, Ctenizidae) is described from Costa Rica. This is the first species added to the genus since its description in 1903 and the first record for the family in Costa Rica.
40233832|Toca new genus is proposed to include two new species: the type species T. bossanova new species from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and T. samba new species from Paran and Minas Gerais, Brazil. Toca may be related to Caloctenus Keyserling and Gephyroctenus Mello-Leito, with which it shares the scales on the abdominal dorsum and the epigynum as a single, slightly sclerotized, fold. The genus can be distinguished among the Calocteninae genera by its unique genital structures.
3705231|Among web-building spiders, bowl and doily spiders (Frontinella pyramitela) are unusual because adult males feed frequently. The males rarely build webs, however, and so depend upon females' snares for foraging. In field and laboratory experiments I assessed the impact of male competition on female foraging success and growth rate. During periods when males are abundant, a female is likely to have a male on her web 22% of the time. These cohabiting males capture about 32% of the prey that hit the web despite the female's efforts to capture the same prey. As a result, males decrease female foraging success by about 7% during periods of male abundance. Adult females grow at a rate that increases linearly with increased food consumption-thus the presence of cohabiting males causes a corresponding 7% decrease in female growth rate when males are abundant. The literature on spider foraging and fecundity permits us to calculate that the resultant impact on female fecundity is between 6.1% and 7.0% depending upon what proportion of growth in adult females is attributable to maternal biomass increase and what is attributable to egg production. This detriment to the female is probably outweighed by the high cost of dislodging the male and by a reduction in the probability that the female will be killed by spiders that mimic prey.
20798583|Web designs of young spiders are often less derived than those of older conspecific individuals. This study tested whether this "ontogeny repeats phylogeny" pattern occurs in two species of Latrodectus and two species of the closely related genus Steatoda. This pattern was assumed to occur in a recent study of a third Latrodectus species, L. geometricus, which attempted to deduce a probable evolutionary derivation of gum-foot webs of theridiids on the basis of ontogenetic changes. We found the same basic ontogeny repeats phylogeny ontogenetic pattern in all four species, suggesting that the previous suppositions were justified. As expected, the webs of the young instars of the two Latrodectus species were more similar than those of the adults, and were more similar to those of young than to those of adults of L. geometricus. One apparently derived trait of L. mirabilis, attaching prey remains as camouflage for the spider in the central portion of the web, did not change during ontogeny, and was present in even the webs of first-instar spiderlings. Field observations of L. mirabilis suggest that the ontogenetic change from light to darker abdominal color patterns that occurs in many Latrodectus species may result from changes in selection for camouflage associated with ontogenetic changes in web designs and the spiders' resting sites. The webs of Steatoda also fit the ontogenetic pattern: at least some ontogenetic changes in both species involved younger spiders having less derived traits than those of adults. The webs of young Steatoda spiders were more derived in some respects than those of the early instars of Latrodectus.
4129834|Cannibalism is a common phenomenon among young wolf spiders (Lycosidae). The purpose of this study was to investigate how various factors influence cannibalistic tendencies in hatchlings of Pardosa amentata (Clerk 1757). The basic experimental approach was to place pairs of unfed hatchlings of similar body mass in small containers without prey and to measure if and when cannibalism happened. From the data, we identified three different cannibalistic strategies. One large group of hatchlings never cannibalized and thus died from starvation. Another group cannibalized shortly before the time at which they were predicted to die from starvation. In these spiders, there was a strong positive relationship between average body mass of the contestants and their latency to cannibalize. A third group cannibalized quickly and the latency to cannibalize in these spiders was independent of body mass. We also tested if cannibalistic tendencies were higher among unrelated pairs than among pairs of siblings, but we did not find any support for this hypothesis. In another experiment we tested if maternal effects influenced cannibalism, i.e. if siblings from certain mothers were more cannibalistic than siblings from others. We did not find any evidence that maternal effects influenced whether or not cannibalism occurred. However, when cannibalism did occur, the latency to cannibalize varied significantly among siblings from different mothers beyond what would have been predicted solely from hatchling body mass.
3705971|Whip spiders use stalked spermatophores for sperm transfer. These are complex structures, and their morphology varies among genera and families. Usually, the paired sperm masses hidden within the spermatophores are small, and there has been a co-evolution of spermatophores and those parts of the female genitalia which are used to pick up the spermatozoa and to store spermatozoa. These are structures like specialized sclerotizations, glands or, in a few species, seminal receptacles which are hidden inside the genital atrium (or uterus externus). In most species there are paired erectile bodies, homologous to genital appendages, which are attached to the dorsal side of the genital operculum which also is part of an appendage homologon. All these structures vary among genera and families. The comparison of spermatophores and genitalia of different species belonging to most genera and families suggest that the female gonopods consist primarily of paired cushion-like structures, each equipped with a small finger-like appendage vestige. These appendage vestiges are retained in many species, particular in the Charinidae and Charontidae. They are erectile by increase in blood pressure, and they are thereby probably bent in characteristic ways and thus can pull off the sperm masses from the spermatophore. In some Charinidae, and in some species of Damon and Phrynichus (Phrynida, Phrynichidae) these appendage vestiges are totally lost. In the Phrynidae, on the other hand, they have become sclerotized and hard. They form the well-known claw-like sclerites, and an invagination at the base of each sclerite has been shaped to form a true seminal receptacle. Similar genitalia have evolved convergently in the genus Trichodamon (Phrynida, Phrynichidae). Spermatophores and the corresponding female genitalia and their mechanisms of a number of genera from most families are described and illustrated.
4149973|Two new spiders, Quamtana huberi new species (Pholcidae) and Selenops sp. indet. (Selenopidae), are described from Lowermost Eocene (Ypresian) amber from Le Quesnoy, Oise department, Paris Basin, France. Both specimens represent the oldest known fossils of their respective families. This is the first fossil record of the extant genus Quamtana, extending its known geological range by 53 Megaannums (Ma). The known geological age of Pholcidae is extended by approximately 5-10 Ma from that of its previous oldest occurrence in Baltic amber. The known age of Selenopidae and the extant genus Selenops are extended by approximately 30 Ma, from their previous oldest occurrence in Dominican Republic amber. The distribution of extant species from these genera suggests the inclusions in amber from the Paris deposit have close affinities with the African fauna.
3705537| New diagnostic characters for the Vaejovis nitidulus group are given, and seven new species from Mxico are described: V. curvidigitus from Guerrero and Morelos; V. kochi from Hidalgo and Mxico; V. mitchelli from San Luis Potos and Quertaro; V. platnicki from San Luis Potos and Tamaulipas; V. pococki from San Luis Potos and Quertaro; V. rubrimanus from Nuevo Len; and V. solegladi from Oaxaca and Puebla. New records are given for V. nitidulus Koch, V. nigrescens Pocock, V. intermedius Borelli, V. decipiens Hoffmann, and V. peninsularis Williams. Finally, hemispermatophores are described and illustrated for seven species, and preliminary observations on their potential usefulness in species and species group taxonomy are presented. 
3705448|Hummelinckiolus silhavyi new species is described from both the male and female from Dominican Republic amber (Upper Eocene in age). This is the first record of the genus from Hispaniola and the Greater Antilles. An emended diagnosis of Hummelinckiolus is provided. A modern Hummelinckiolus sp. is reported from St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands.
3706081| The means by which female wolf spiders attach an egg sac to their spinnerets was investigated using scanning electron microscopy. In four Pardosa species, we observed that silk fibers emerging from ampullate gland spigots had been affixed to the surface of the egg sac. More specifically, primary (1) and secondary (2) major ampullate (MaA) glands and 1 and 2 minor ampullate (MiA) glands all contributed fibers for this purpose. The diameters of the 2 MaA and 2 MiA fibers were greater than those of the 1 MaA and 1 MiA fibers and, correspondingly, the widths of the 2 ampullate spigots were clearly greater than those of the 1 ampullate spigots. Larger 2 ampullate spigots were also observed in adult females of species from three other lycosid genera. Thus, 2 ampullate glands, which in araneoids function only in juveniles during proecdysis, are not only functional in adult female lycosids (and adult females of several other families), but they appear to play a greater role than the 1 ampullate glands in egg sac attachment. Observations made on the 1 and 2 ampullate spigots of adult females from species belonging to several other families are also presented. Cuticular structures referred to as nubbins and tartipores are present in some spinning fields on spinnerets. A proposal is made for defining these terms by a criterion, namely their different origins, which differs from that applied previously. 
3706099| The African genus Palfuria Simon 1910 is revised. The genus now contains nine species: the type species Palfuria retusa Simon 1910, described on the base of single juvenile, P. gibbosa (Lessert 1936), P. panner Jocqu 1991, and six species that are described as new: P. caputlari ( ), P. harpago (), P. helichrysorum (), P. hirsuta (), P. gladiator ( ), P. spirembolus ( ). The male of Palfuria panner is redescribed, and the female described for the first time. Five species (P. retusa, P. spirembolus, P. gladiator, P. panner, P. harpago) are from the southwestern part of the continent, the other species (P. gibbosa, P. helichrysorum, P. hirsuta, P. caputlari) from the eastern part. The last species is from as far north as northern Tanzania. As in many other genera, there is a tendency for the embolus to increase in length. Both the most basal (Palfuria panner) and the most derived species (Palfuria spirembolus) are found in Namibia. 
25067864|The putative fossil whipscorpion Thelyphonus hadleyi Pierce 1945 (Arachnida: Uropygi) from the middle to late Miocene Monterey Formation of Cabrillo Beach, San Pedro, California is reassessed. It is shown here to be nothing more than a fortuitously shaped stain on the rock, apparently partly algal in nature. The fossil record of whipscorpions can thus be restrained to six Pennsylvanian and one Cretaceous species.
3705967|The Hawaiian Thomisidae are noted for being extremely species rich, as well as diverse in morphology and ecology. This exceptional diversity led early systematists to place the species into several genera with cosmopolitan distributions. It has been recently suggested that these species compose a single large adaptive radiation. Species-area relationships for all thomisid species and for Misumenops F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1900 (Thomisidae) species for various island areas were generated. Further, a phylogenetic hypothesis was constructed based on genetic distances between the Hawaiian thomisids and various outgroups using a 450 bp region of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene to test for close genetic relationships. Despite the extraordinary isolation of the Hawaiian islands, the numbers of Misumenops and total thomisid species were found to be significantly higher than predicted for an island system of its size. Phylogenetic analysis of COI suggests the Hawaiian thomisids are more closely related to each other than to representatives of genera to which they have been previously assigned. These results support the existence of a Hawaiian thomisid adaptive radiation, and merit further investigation using comparative methods.
3705347|Web-building spiders were censused by a visual censusing method in tropical forest understory on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama Canal Zone. An overall trend of low numbers of spiders in the late dry season and early wet season (March to May) was seen on all transects. The majority of the species on the transects had wet season distribution patterns. Some species which occurred year-round on the forest transects had wet season distributions on a clearing-edge transect. A shortage of flying insect prey or dessication may have been responsible for the observed distributions. Species diversity and diversity of web types followed the overall seasonal pattern of spider abundance. The diversities of species and of web types were greatest on the forest transect with the highest diversity of structural supports for spider webs. Web density, however, was greatest on the transect at the edge of a small clearing. Faunal composition, diversity of web types, and seasonal patterns of distribution of spiders on the BCI transects differed markedly from similar measures derived from censuses taken in a tropical montane habitat in New Guinea. The differences were attributed in part to differences in the habitats and in the evenness of the climate.
25434303|We describe Kochiana new genus to accommodate a small Brazilian theraphosine species described originally as Mygale brunnipes by Koch (1842), resulting in Kochiana brunnipes new combination. Recently, specimens were rediscovered in northeastern Brazilian Atlantic rainforest. A preliminary cladistic analysis using equal weights parsimony and implied weights, was carried out to examine its phylogenetic placement. Kochiana new genus was monophyletic in all trees regardless of weighting scheme or concavity used. There is preliminary evidence for Kochiana new genus monophyly and weak evidence for its placement as sister group of Plesiopelma. Kochiana new genus can be characterized by the presence of a hornshaped spermatheca in females and males with a palpal bulb having prolateral accessory keels and a well developed medial crest on the embolus apex.
20788624|The species classically grouped in the genus Zygiella F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1902 are thought to all possess a characteristic orb web feature  a spiral-free sector in the upper part of the orb. Zygiella s.l. has recently been split into four genera, Zygiella s.s., Leviellus Wunderlich 2004, Parazygiella Wunderlich 2004 and Stroemiellus Wunderlich 2004, and proposed to belong to family Zygiellidae, rather than the classical Araneidae. To find orb web features that could potentially diagnose these species and/or genera, we investigated female web architectures of L. thorelli, P. montana, S. stroemi, Z. keyserlingi and Z. x-notata. We investigated a total of 278 female webs and compared 16 characters emphasizing web size, web and hub asymmetry, as well as radial and spiral counts. The free sector may be present in all species but its prevalence in female webs varied from 41% in Z. keyserlingi to 94% in P. montana. Various combinations of web architecture characters may diagnose those species that in our sample represented all four genera: Zygiella s.s. may be diagnosed by the median number of non-circulating sticky spirals below hub, Stroemiellus by the small web size with small mesh width and the non-circulating spirals above hub, Parazygiella by few primary radii and sticky spirals, and Leviellus by a pronounced vertical hub displacement. This suite of diagnostic features may provide preliminary support for the current taxonomy of Zygiella s.l., although the ultimate test, i.e., a phylogeny, is needed to test the validity of the genera. Seven out of 16 web characters are potentially phylogenetically informative because they show a statistically significant shared variation among species. Our study, which pioneers the quantification of web data to distinguish species, implies that the interspecific variation in webs may turn out to reflect phylogenetic relationships among Zygiella s.l.
3705315| Previous subantarctic and extreme southern cold temperate island localities for harvestmen are reviewed. The record of Spinicrus tasmanicum (Hogg) from South Georgia is questioned. Thrasychirus dentichelis Simon and Thrasychirus modestus Simon are now recorded from Isla Deceit (5549S latitude), and T. dentichelis alone from Isla Bayly (5537S) and Isla Wollaston (5544S), Cape Horn Archipelago. /// Se revisan las localidades ya conocidas de los Opiliones recolectados el las islas del extremo sur templado-fro e islas subantrticas. Se pone en duda la validez del registro de Spinicrus tasmanicum (Hogg) en Georgia del Sur. Thrasychirus dentichelis Simon y Thrasychirus modestus Simon se citan aqui por primera vez de la isla Deceit (5549S) y T. dentichelis se cita adems de la isla de Bayly (5537S) e isla Wollaston (5544S), en el archipilago del Cabo de Hornos. 
3705099|The primitive function of spider silk is commonly thought to have been associated with any of three typical behavior patterns seen in the bulk of spiders today: (1) egg protection, (2) prey capture, and (3) shelter building. It is argued here that a primitive function in egg protection and prey capture must be regarded as very unlikely. Silk production and application is hypothesized to have originated in relation to shelter building and burrowing habits of ancestral spiders then still living in a littoral environment.
3705382| The holotype of Ideobisium tibiale Banks, from Colorado, USA, is redescribed. This species is transferred from Microcreagris Balzan to Cryptocreagris uri (Neobisiidae). The diagnosis of the genus Cryptocreagris is emended. 
3705756| Spiders of 11 families, 22 genera, and at least 33 species were collected from crown foliage samples of Abies balsamea (L.) Mill., Picea rubens Sarg., and Picea glauca (Moench) Voss in east-central Maine. For both study years (1985, 1986), spider species composition varied by foraging strategy (web spinner, hunter) and among 10 study sites. Numbers, life stages, and sex ratios of spiders also differed between study years. Spider densities per m
3705296|Comparative anatomical studies are carried out on representatives of the Arachnida, Merostomata, and Pycnogonida with respect to (a) circulatory morphology, and (b) the morphological significance of the muscles which insert on the endosternite. A morphological relationship of the chelicerate arterial system to the endosternite is demonstrated, and evidence is brought forth that this is a primitive relationship in chelicerates. A comparative analysis of the chelicerate endosternite provides evidence that it has evolved by fusion of an arterial membrane with the connective tissue of serial, paired, transverse and dorsoventral muscles. A hypothetical model of the primitive chelicerate endosternite is reconstructed. Specimens dissected and/or sectioned include representative genera of each arachnid order; the xiphosuran, Limulus; and seven genera of pycnogonids. The endosternites of merostomes and arachnids are interpreted to be homologous structures, and the transverse suspensor muscles of the endosternite are hypothesized to be homologous to the transverse muscle fibers of the pycnogonid horizontal vascular septum. In all apulmonate arachnids which have endosternites (orders Palpigradida, Acarida, Opilionida, Ricinuleida, and Pseudoscorpionida) the endosternite is demonstrated to be continuous with a perineural vascular membrane which encloses a periganglionic arterial sinus. It is demonstrated that palpigrades possess the most primitive endosternite of all the known extant chelicerates. In the nonpalpigrade apulmonate arachnids, there has been a tendency toward reduction of the endosternite and a corresponding tendency toward development of an elaborate apodemal endoskeleton. The most extreme degree of development of an apodemal endoskeleton occurs in solpugids, and in this order the mesodermal endosternite has been reduced to absence. Limulus (Class Merostomata) also possesses a perineural vascular membrane and an endosternite. Only in the immature Limulus is the endosternite continuous with the arterial system; by the adult stage the anatomical connection between the two is vestigial. In all pulmonate arachnids (orders Scorpionida, Thelyphonida, Schizomida, Amblypygida, and Araneida) the adult arterial system includes a pair of enlarged arteries (thoracic sinuses) which lie dorsad to the subesophageal ganglionic mass. Since the larval Limulus possesses a similar pair of thoracic sinuses (Kingsley, 1893) which during later ontogeny hypertrophy and surround the central nervous system, giving rise to a periganglionic arterial sinus, it is hypothesized that the thoracic sinuses of adult pulmonate arachnids represent a neotenous condition. In the pulmonate arachnid orders, there is no anatomical connection between the adult arterial system and endosternite, except in the lungless spider, Orthonops gertschi (family Caponiidae), where an anatomical connection exists in the adult. The existence in pycnogonids of a perivisceral arterial membrane is demonstrated, and in the light of this the circulatory blood movements in pycnogonids are reinterpreted. The perineural portion of this membrane is interpreted to be homologous to the perineural vascular membrane of merostomes and arachnids. In pycnogonids, the perivisceral arterial membrane is continuous with the double-layered horizontal vascular septum (of Dohrn, 1881) which separates dorsal and ventral portions of the trunk hemocoel. It is suggested that this septum is homologous to the hypothetical progenitor of the endosternite of merostomes and arachnids. Moreover, it is suggested that the primitive function of the chelicerate endosternite may have been vascular rather than skeletal. It is hypothesized that neoteny has been involved in the origin of arachnids from merostomes, and in the origin of apulmonate arachnids from pulmonates. The Palpigradida is regarded as the closest apulmonate order to the ancestral apulmonate stock. The Pulmonata and Apulmonata are both regarded as natural monophyletic catagories. The Pulmonata is regarded as having emerged from the arachnid ancestors of modern scorpions. The ancestral apulmonate stock diverged to give rise both to modern palpigrades and to the nonpalpigrade apulmonates.
20788608|The functional significance of web decorations in orb-web spiders has been an area of intense study for well over a hundred years. Two main hypotheses, (prey attraction and predator avoidance) have had intermittent support and criticism. By varying the decoration pattern, spiders minimize the potential predation costs of constructing a highly visible signal and deter potential prey such as bees from associating decorations with danger. The prey attraction hypothesis implies that as the signal changes, so should the response of the intercepting insects. In this study, I tested the response of bees to varying decoration patterns. I show that stingless bees (Trigona carbonaria) respond to the silk decorations of Argiope keyserlingi Karsch 1878 in similar ways irrespective of the pattern of decorations. I also demonstrate that the likelihood of prey hitting the capture area is greater than that of hitting the hub area in decorated webs. Since stingless bees respond similarly to different levels of signal strength, I conclude that variation in decorations does not affect prey interception.
40233853|In this study, we investigated whether two plesiomorphic zodariid species, Lachesana insensibilis Jocqu 1991 and Pax islamita (Simon 1873), both from Israel, possess adaptations for myrmecophagy similar to those of apomorphic zodariid genera. Our analysis focused on the predatory behavior and potential prey of these two spider species. We deduced that P. islamita does not feed on ants in nature since these were not present in its microhabitat. In the habitat of L. insensibilis, however, ants were very abundant, and thus they may serve as an important diet component. In the laboratory, both species were able to subdue a wide variety of prey and therefore should be considered polyphagous. They used a conditional capture strategy. Safe prey was handled by grasping and holding it in a basket-like manner. Dangerous prey such as ants were attacked, released, and finally held in the chelicerae while the spider held its own legs at a safe distance. Both species were able to overcome ants if they were not larger than the spiders. We conclude that both species possess behavioral pre-adaptations for myrmecophagy.
3706287|An interim report on our ongoing revisional study is given together with a short summary of the current knowledge on the systematics and distribution of the family Oncopodidae (Opiliones, Laniatores). An exceptionally high diversity in male genitalia is shown and its possible evolution is discussed. Four major penis types are distinguished in the Oncopodidae and compared with similar forms in other laniatorean families.
3705993| Pitfall trapping was carried out in northern Hungarian winter wheat fields and their adjacent margins during the growing seasons of three consecutive years, 1992-1994. The dominant species of both habitats was the wolf spider Pardosa agrestis (Westring). A total of 8403 adult individuals of 19 families of 149 spider species was identified: 118 species from the winter wheat and 118 from the margins with fewer traps. The efficiency of detecting species by trapping was 90%, according to the Baule-Mitscherlich extrapolation model. Provided that the sampling effort is the same in both habitats, traps in the margin may catch higher number of individuals and species, than traps located within the field. Calculations, however, indicate that the field, with an area more than a hundred times larger than that of the margins, has a higher total number of species. Although the spider species spectrum of the field and of the margin had a considerable overlap, the Renkonen similarity index indicates that the spider fauna of the two types of habitats were different. Spider assemblages of the margins were more diverse (Rnyi diversity), than those of the fields. The species richness of epigeic spiders in our Hungarian winter wheat fields was high, and it was increased by the presence of margins. Thus, for the purposes of the protection of our fauna and promotion of integrated pest management, establishment and maintenance of margins is strongly desirable. 
3705042|After measuring their initial weights, we induced first instar larvae of Mantispa uhleri Banks to board individual Salticus scenicus (Clerck) adults and immatures. After varying periods of time (2 to 73 days), larvae were removed from their spiders and reweighed. Changes in larval weight were analyzed by multiple linear regression. Results demonstrate that larvae increase in weight in proportion to their tenure on a spider. Because of this we suggest that larvae are maintaining themselves by feeding on spider blood. The significance of initial weight in accounting for variation in weight change suggests that there may be an optimal maintenance weight range for larvae while on a spider.
3706177|We examined the utility of several popular formulae used to estimate the capture areas of orb webs across a large sample of Cyclosa Menge 1866 and Tetragnatha Latreille 1804 webs. All formulae evaluated contained at least some bias in estimation of the capture areas of webs. We identified two types of asymmetry in orb webs that affect capture area estimation differently. Web asymmetry measures the ratio of the horizontal and vertical diameters of orb webs while hub asymmetry measures the displacement of the hub from the geometric center of a web. An analysis of model webs that varied in web and hub asymmetry showed that most formulae overestimated capture area as web asymmetry increased and that some formulae also overestimated capture area as hub asymmetry increased. Only the "Ellipse-Hub" formula was unaffected by web and hub asymmetry. Although the "Adjusted Radii-Hub" formula provided a slightly more accurate overall estimate of capture area, we recommend that the "Ellipse-Hub" formula be used when comparisons of capture area are made between taxa or individuals that vary in web and hub asymmetry.
3706086|Seasonal fluctuations, phenology and diet of Misumenops argenteus (Araneae, Thomisidae) on Trichogoniopsis adenantha (Asteraceae) were investigated in the Serra do Japi, southeastern Brazil, over a 2 year period. This spider population increased at the beginning of the rainy season, reaching a peak in March, and decreased in May, reaching its lowest density in the cold/dry season. In the rainy season (December-May), most of the individuals were in the young or juvenile phase (
25654008|Hentzia alamosa (Salticidae) is described from Big Bend Ranch State Park in Presidio County, Texas, and a closely related species, Hentzia fimbriata (F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1901) is recorded for the first time from the USA. Both species are also closely related to Hentzia palmarum (Hentz 1832), the type species for the genus. New locality records provided by the Texas A & M University Insect Collection (TAMUIC) for H. palmarum are also included.
3705915| On the basis of a character analysis, the genus Pycnothele and species attributed to Androthelopsis were revised and it was concluded that Pycnothele Chamberlin, 1917 = Androthelopsis Mello-Leito, 1934. The genus Pycnothele comprises three species that are redescribed and illustrated: Pycnothele auronitens (Keyserling, 1891) (=Androthelopsis modestus: Raven, 1985 (in part.) and Psalistops auripilus Mello-Leito, 1946 new synonyms); Pycnothele perdita Chamberlin, 1917; and Pycnothele singularis (Mello-Leito, 1934) new combination (=Pycnothelopsis modestus Schiapelli & Gerschman, 1942 and Androthelopsis modestus: Raven, 1985 (in part) new synonyms). Heteromma anomala Mello-Leito, 1934, although it belongs to Pycnothele, is an uncertain species. A taxonomic key is included for species identification. 
40233852|A velvet worm (Peripatus sp., Peripatidae) was observed and photographed while feeding on a theraphosid spider, Hapalopus butantan (Perez-Miles, 1998). The present note is the first report of an onychophoran feeding on "giant" spider.
3705171|Three species are described: Aphrastochthonius grubbsi, new species, and A. similis, new species, from Lost Piton and Carlow's Caves in Calaveras County, and Archeolarca aalbui, new species, from Mitchell Caverns in San Bernardino County.
4129843|Tarsal scopula condition and carapace length were studied for eighteen Ischnocolinae species. For cladistic analysis a matrix of 20 terminals and 30 characters of representatives of Ischnocolinae, Theraphosinae, Aviculariinae, Harpactirinae and Trichopelmatinae were analyzed using Nona 2.0 computer software. The matrix was analyzed in four different ways: 1. each tarsal scopula (legs I-IV) coded as separate characters; 2. one character with six ordered states; 3. one character with six independent states; 4. without tarsal scopula character. The first two matrices result in one tree with the same indices (L = 72; CI = 0.54; RI = 0.74) and topology: Part of Ischnocolinae is monophyletic (H. rondoni(S. longibulbi(I. algericus + Catumiri))) and the other representatives (Oligoxystre and Genus 1) form a distinct monophyletic group with Theraphosinae, Harpactirinae and Aviculariinae. There are no homoplasies in tarsal scopula evolution in the second cladogram. The other two cladograms show less resolution for the Ischnocolinae than the two first cladorams. The tarsal scopula condition appears to have no relation to spider size (t = -0.80433; P = 0.438247) and should be used in phylogenetic analysis of Ischnocolinae because it provides information on the character variability within the subfamily.
3704990|A new pseudoscorpion species, Mundochthonius holsingeri, is described from a limestone cave in Virginia. It is the second species of this genus to be reported from a cave within the United States.
3705736|Courtship and copulatory behavior were observed in the funnel-web spider, Hololena adnexa (Chamberlin and Gertsch). Overall these behaviors were similar to those reported for Agelenopsis species. However, behavioral differences were found in the precopulation stage. An unusual pattern for male palpal insertion duration during copulation was discovered. Initial short duration insertions were followed by a peak of longer insertion durations; however, subsequent insertions decreased in duration. The peak in insertion duration was postulated to correspond to the maximum time of transfer of sperm.
25654016|The presentation of nutritional resources as nuptial gifts before or during the mating process is well known among insects, but has only rarely been documented in spiders. Here, we report on observations and a series of photographs made during field studies in Fortin de las Flores, Veracruz, Mexico, which, although a single anecdotal report, represent a potentially significant finding. A male of the kleptoparasitic spider Argyrodes elevatus Taczanowski 1873 (Araneae, Theridiidae) was observed stealing a prey item from within a communal web of its host, the colonial orb-weaver Metepeira incrassata F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1903 (Araneae, Araneidae). The male A. elevatus then carried and presented the prey item to a female, waited nearby until she began feeding, and copulated with her as she fed upon it. As far as is known, this is the first report of kleptoparasitic Argyrodes apparently utilizing a prey item stolen from a host spider as a nuptial gift.
4129805|The attack behavior of the cobweb spider Achaearanea tesselata (Keyserling 1884) is roughly separated into three sequential steps: descend from the suspended retreat, pass through the sheet threads, and wrap the prey from underneath the sheet. The position and speed as the spider descended varied apparently according to prey type. In the fastest descent, A. tesselata fell free upside down, with all legs free and stretched upward. Two other relatively slow types of descent occurred when spiders approached the sheet head down or climbing down on a mesh thread. The behavior used to pass between the sheet lines showed little variation. It occurred at high speed with the legs folded dorsally; when the legs were in this position the spider offered a very small area of impact, apparently permitting the femora to penetrate or open a space between the lines of the sheet. The spider then opened the femora of the legs to create enough space for the cephalothorax, and seizing the sheet from underneath with legs I, II, and III, the spider pulled the abdomen and hind legs through the sheet. Then the spider rushed to the prey, flung viscid lines at the prey, and wrapped it. Attacks occurred in as little as 0.11 s after the spider began its descent. The design of the webs of A. tesselata transmits information regarding the location of the prey trapped on the sheet to reach the resting spider inside the retreat. The first response of the spider in her retreat was to turn to face the prey; the spider then climbed down along mesh threads following a nearly straight line to the prey.
41317223|Although the diversity of spider orb web architectures is impressive, few lineages have evolved orb webs larger than lm in diameter. Until recently, such web gigantism was reported only in a few nephilids and araneids. However, new studies on bark spiders (Caerostris) of Madagascar report a unique case of web gigantism: Darwin's bark spider (C darwini) casts its webs over substantial water bodies, and these webs are made from silk whose toughness outperforms all other known spider silks. Here we investigate C darwini web architecture and provide data to begin to answer two intriguing questions to explain these extraordinary web characteristics: 1) Are C. darwini webs specialized to subdue unusually large, perhaps even vertebrate, prey? 2) Do these large, riverine webs allow the spiders to capitalize on catching numerous small semi-aquatic insects? During fieldwork in Madagascar, we studied C. darwini web architecture and ecology, as well as interactions with prey. We characterize C. darwini webs as having relatively simple capture areas with very open sticky spirals and few radial lines. We also compare web features in several sympatric Caerostris species, among which C. darwini represents the most extreme case of web gigantism, with the largest orbs up to 2.76 m and longest bridge lines reaching 25.5 m. While preliminary, current data suggest that C darwini webs are effective snares for semi-aquatic insects such as mayflies and dragonflies, while vertebrate prey were never observed. We suggest that mass emergence of aquatic insects may function analogously to the capture of rare, large prey that recent studies suggest are critical for reproduction in orb weaving spiders.
20788632|Published descriptions of egg sac construction behavior in araneids are scarce. We describe egg sac construction and oviposition in one individual of the poorly known araneid Pozonia nigroventris (Bryant 1936) and two individuals of Micrathena sp. These spiders folded dead leaves to protect their eggs. All individuals pulled up and hung a dead leaf above the forest floor, oviposited on the leaf, and then folded the leaf around the egg sac. They then deposited the enclosed egg sac in the leaf litter below. The use of dead leaves in this way probably evolved convergently, since these genera are only distantly related.
3705936|A monotypic theraphosid spider genus, Crassicrus new genus, and a new species Crassicrus lamanai new species, are described from the tropical dry forest of north-central Belize. Natural history and biogeographical notes are given.
3705017|Diplocentrus mexicanus Peters is reestablished as the valid type species of the genus Diplocentrus Peters. The type of D. mexicanus has been lost, but the published information is sufficient to establish that this taxon is not synonymous with D. whitei (Gervais) as previously maintained. Accordingly, a neotype for D. mexicanus is designated and described. The exact type locality of D. mexicanus is still unknown because the incomplete data accompanying the neotype, and one additional known specimen referable to this species, only indicate that they were collected in Mexico. A new subspecies has been found in the state of Oaxaca, D. mexicanus oaxacae, n. ssp., and for this reason alone the description of the nominate subspecies is included here. Seven other species of Diplocentrus are recorded from Oaxaca, including four new ones: D. tehuano, n. sp., D. hoffmanni, n. sp., D. reticulatus, n. sp., and D. mitlae, n. sp.. The holotype of D. rectimanus Pocock is redescribed, establishing that this taxon is not a synonym of D. keyserlingi Karsch as formerly held, and the controversy over its type locality is solved. D. keyserlingi tehuacanus Hoffmann is given specific recognition, and redescribed accordingly. Finally, D. ochoterenai Hoffmann is redescribed from the holotype, which is a female rather than a male as originally believed by Hoffmann, and the male is described for the first time.
20617610|I describe the female and redescribe the male of Theridion italiense Wunderlich 1995 from live and alcohol-preserved material and provide notes on the ecology, distribution, and affiliations with the very similar Theridion uhligi Martin 1974 and Theridion petraeum L. Koch, 1872.
4129874|Three new species of Solifugae are described: Eremobates paleta from Mexico, is a member of the Eremobates scaber species group; Eremobates inkopaensis from California, U.S.A., is a member of the Eremobates palpisetulosus group; and Eremochelis albaventrails from Mexico is tentatively placed in the Eremochelis bllobatus group. The female of Branchla brevis Muma from Texas, U.S.A. is described for the first time.
3705338| The name Porrimosa Roewer is selected to replace Porrima Simon, which is preoccupied. Of the seven nominal species studied four are considered to be species inquirenda. This is because the holotype of P. callipoda cannot now be found, and for the three others (P. diversa, P. glieschi and P. securifera) the descriptions were based upon juveniles. Three species are fully described, including both sexes for the best known species, P. lagotis (Mello-Leito), not the P. lagotis of Holmberg. For P. castanea only the female is known, and for P. harknessi only the male. Four new combinations are indicated, among which one species, P. securifera, is transferred from the genus Lycosa to Porrimosa. /// Porrimosa Roewer es el nombre sustituto de Porrima Simon, pues este ltimo es un nombre preocupado. De siete especies de Porrimosa estudiadas, cuatro se consideran species inquirenda porque el holotipo de Porrimosa callipoda no ha sido hallado hasta ahora y los otros tres holotipos conocidos (Porrimosa diversa, Porrimosa glieschi y Porrimosa securifera) se describieron de formas inmaduras. Se describen tres especies, de las cuales, se conocen ambos sexos, en solo una de ellas: P. lagotis (Mello-Leito). En las otras dos solo se conoce la hembra en P. castanea, y el macho en P. harknessi. Se indican cuatro nuevas combinaciones, entre las cuales una especie (Lycosa securifera Tullgren) se transfiere del gnero Lycosa al gnero Porrimosa. 
4129876| A new species of scorpion from southern Brazil, Bothriurus pora, is described. The hemispermatophore of this species is unique within the genus, displaying a highly developed and extremely complex capsular region. External morphology and shape of the sperm packages show a close relationship with the Bothriurus bonariensis species group. /// Se describe una nueva especie de escorpin del sur del Brazil, Bothriurus pora. El hemiespermatforo de esta especie presenta caracteres nicos en el gnero, con una regin capsular muy desarrollada y extremadamente compleja. Su morfologa externa y la forma general de sus paquetes espermticos demuestran una relacin cercana con el grupo de especies Bothriurus bonariensis. 
3705907| The pathway of the optic nerves in the studied species of Latrodectus shows intraspecific variation. Dilatations, empty or containing a pigment of unknown function, can be seen in the nerves. Curiously, this pigment originates in the retinal cells. The optic nerves run through the prosoma and merge, forming two or four optic centers, which are finally joined into a single one. /// La trayectoria de los nervios pticos en las especies de Latrodectus estudiadas muestra variacin intraespecifica. En ellos existen dilataciones que pueden hallarse vacas o conteniendo un pigmento originado en las clulas retinianas, cuya funcin es desconocida. Estos nervios forman dos o cuatro centros pticos que luego se fusionan en un centro nico. 
41804572|Spiders are important generalist predators in agroecosystems, yet early season colonization is poorly understood, especially in northern regions. We investigated colonization patterns of spiders in agricultural fields after snow-melt in four cornfields in southwestern Quebec (Canada). Paired pitfall traps were associated with two drift fences to obtain data about immigration to and emigration from the fields and were placed at increasing distances from a deciduous forest border. Control traps were placed four meters inside the forest. Seventy-four species were collected, dominated by Linyphiidae and Lycosidae. Most of the fauna was already active during the first weeks of collection, and early season assemblages differed from late season assemblages. A significant ecotone effect was found for spider abundance, species richness and species composition. This study stresses the importance of early season spider activity in agroecosystems, and this context is relevant to a period of colonization by the dominant, active spider species.
3705452|It has been hypothesized that larger females of the social neotropical spider Anelosimus eximius (Keyserling 1884) (family Theridiidae) take advantage of the food captured by smaller females, and thus maintain a higher social rank within a colony. To test this hypothesis, the behavior of adult females in three colonies of A. eximius was observed in the Panama rain forest. Adult spiders with low body weights did most of the building, cleaning and repairing of the communal web, while heavier spiders more often took care of egg sacs. The latter stayed mostly inside safe retreats while low-weight spiders were mostly outside the retreats, where mortality was high. Reproducing spiders were of high body weight. To test whether this behavioral asymmetry is related to the nutritional condition of a female a manipulation experiment was conducted. A comparison of adult females, which were either well fed or starved, showed that starved females do more web maintenance, spend more time outside the retreats and more often take part in attacking prey. I conclude that both hunger (recent feeding success) and general nutritional condition (body weight) are the cues for the observed behavioral asymmetry in colonies of Anelosimus eximius. It is currently unknown whether the observed asymmetry is stable over time or whether it is age-related.
41317220|We investigated the influence of burning frequency and timing on the abundance and diversity of cursorial arachnids in the cerrado (savannah of central Brazil). Five areas were subjected to different burning regimes. In each area, 40 pitfall traps were installed. The arachnids were sampled for three days each month from April 2007 to October 2008. Abundance was higher in the control area than in areas subjected to any fire regime. Species richness was similar in all areas. The evenness was lower in the control area. The areas subject to fires had significantly higher diversity than the control area. Although it was not possible to rank areas according to their diversity, areas burned in the middle of the dry season tended to have higher diversity than areas burned at the beginning or end of this season, indicating that the time at which fire occurs may be more important than the frequency of burning for the diversity of cursorial arachnids in the Brazilian cerrado.
41758977|A new species of Biantidae belonging to the genus Heterolacurbs Roewer 1912 is herein described. Heterolacurbs perezassoi new species from Puerto Rico, Greater Antilles, is the second species included in the genus, and it is clearly recognized by the pair of large spiniform apophyses on area IV that does not restrain area III of the dorsal scutum, the smooth legs, femora II-IV without dorsodistal spine, its tarsal formula, sternites with small tubercles and penis that exhibits a distinctive morphology.
3705867|Burrow-associated behavior of Misgolas rapax was observed in the field and laboratory. Spider density was estimated on 16 replicate plots at one study site in Brisbane Water National Park, NSW, Australia. These estimates were compared to habitat features including vegetation, topographic slope and soil penetrance. Spider burrow density varied significantly across the study plots and was significantly aggregated. There were no detectable patterns of relationship between habitat features and variation in M. rapax density. Misgolas rapax density and activity patterns were not related to natural variation in spatial and temporal patterns of prey-abundance. Field and laboratory experiments were conducted to determine the influence of proximate feeding history on activity in adult females. Foraging activity decreased after food supplementation in the field and was lower among the high-food treatment females in the laboratory. Despite the fact that M. rapax behavior is influenced by feeding history, these spiders are apparently unable to adjust their behavior to the unpredictable fluctuations in prey availability.
3706105|Three species of sac spiders were reared under laboratory conditions to investigate their survival and development. First, the effects of three artificial diets, milk + egg yolk, soybean liquid, and a combination of them, on the survival and development of Hibana velox were evaluated. Results over a 10 wk rearing period showed that the percentages of survival of H. velox reared on soybean liquid and combination diets did not differ significantly. However, the survival of H. velox on the milk + egg yolk diet was significantly lower than on the other two artifical diets. More molts and instars occurred in spiders raised on milk + egg yolk and on the combination diet than on the soybean liquid diet. Second, the development and percent survival of three sac spiders (Chiracanthium inclusum, H. velox, and Trachelas volutus) on artificial diet (i.e., the combination diet) and natural diets (i.e., citrus leafminer larvae and Drosophila adults) were compared. The three sac spiders developed into the adult stage on the combination diet. Similarly, all three sac spiders reared on Drosophila adults were able to develop to the adult stage. Chiracanthium inclusum and T. volutus reared on citrus leafminer larvae developed to the adult stage, whereas H. velox did not. Females of these three species that matured using combination diet and were fertilized in captivity produced 1-3 egg masses. Oviposition took place 2-7 days after mating. Chiracanthium inclusum had an average of 57 eggs per egg mass, whereas H. velox and T. volutus had an average of 110 and 56 eggs per egg mass, respectively.
23610236|Morphological studies have documented the tendency for male genitalia to diverge rapidly compared to other body parts in many animal groups, including spiders. But documentation of how differences in genital structures of closely related species correlate with differences in the behavior of their genitalia during copulation is rare. This study describes how the genitalia of the spider Leucauge argyra (Walckenaer 1841), a species in which both male and female have unusual derived structures, are used during copulation and compares their sexual behavior with previous descriptions of genital behavior in the congener L. mariana (Taczanowski 1881) and the genital morphology of other Leucauge species. Males of L. argyra have two prominent derived genital structures, both of which interact directly with the female; one of them apparently locks against a modified female structure, while the other is inserted into the female atrium. On the other hand, the most prominent derived female structure does not lock against or receive any male structure and may serve to sense movements of the male palp, perhaps to trigger deposition of a strong copulatory plug by the female. The female atrium is unusual in that it receives insertions of both the male's conductor and his cymbial hook. Both derived male structures of L. argyra may have evolved to stabilize the male's genitalia during intromission, perhaps in response to violent and dangerous female resistance or to perforate the strong plug that is probably produced or at least moved into place by the female. The rotating and projecting movements executed by male genitalia in L. argyra, which as in other spiders are presumably produced by the hydraulic unfolding of complex membranes in the palp, are quite different from the movements of the male genitalia of L. mariana. We speculate that in spiders in general, changes in palpal sclerites are often accompanied by changes in the movements of the sclerites, and thus by changes in the unstudied internal membranes of the palp.
3706299| Synonymy among three species of linyphid spiders of the genus Frontinella F. O. Pickard-Cambridge 1902 is established based on field association between males and females, mating records, and morphological data from recently collected specimens. It is concluded that F. caudata Gertsch & Davis 1946 and F. lepidula Gertsch & Davis 1946 are both junior synonyms of F. tibialis F. O. Pickard-Cambridge 1902. A redescription of this species is included. /// Se establece la sinonimia entre tres especies de araas linfidas del gnero Frontinella F. O. Pickard-Cambridge 1902, con base en datos de campo sobre la asociacin entre machos y hembras, registros de aparemientos, y datos de la morfologa de especimenes recientemente colectados. Se concluye que F. caudata Gertsch & Davis 1946 y F. lepidula Gertsch & Davis 1946 son sinnimos junior de F. tibialis F. O. Pickard-Cambridge 1902. Se incluye una redescripcin de esta especie. 
25434326|In some spiders features of the webs of early instars may represent features of the ancestor's web. Some second instar spiderlings (first instar outside of the egg sac) of Tengella radiata (Kulczynski 1909) construct a small sheet web without any type of retreat. In subsequent instars, spiderlings construct webs that consist of a sheet with a small retreat that opens near its center. Webs gradually change as spiderlings growth and webs of 7th instar spiders are indistinguishable from those of adult females. Spiders only begin to include cribellate threads in their webs during the 7th instar. The growth of T. radiata is slow during the first three instars, but spiders' sizes increase steadily in the subsequent stages. Legs I of adult males are longer than in females, indicating an allometric growth that occurred mainly during the last molt of males.
3705965|We propose a phylogeny for all entelegyne families with cribellate members based on a matrix of 137 characters scored for 43 exemplar taxa and analyzed under parsimony. The cladogram confirms the monophyly of Neocribellatae, Araneoclada, Entelegynae, and Orbiculariae. Lycosoidea, Amaurobiidae and some included subfamilies, Dictynoidea, and Amaurobioidea (sensu Forster & Wilton 1973) are polyphyletic. Phyxelidinae Lehtinen is raised to family level (Phyxelididae, NEW RANK). The family Zorocratidae Dahl 1913 is revalidated. A group including all entelegynes other than Eresoidea is weakly supported as the sister group of Orbiculariae.
3705593|Various authors have offered three alternative hypotheses of phylogeny which suggest different sister groups to the orb-weaving spider genus Metepeira. In one case Kaira is sister genus to Metepeira, and Zygiella is sister to Kaira plus Metepeira; in another case, Kaira is sister genus to Metepeira, but Zygiella is a tetragnathid, and thus unrelated at this level of analysis; and in the last case, Zygiella is close to Metepeira, but this time Kaira is not closely related. To resolve among these conflicting hypotheses, six species of orb-weaving spiders were sequenced for mitochondrial DNA encoding a portion of the 12S ribosomal subunit. These data were analyzed with data from two tetragnathid orb-weavers to estimate the phylogenetic relationships among these spiders and to determine which genus is a likely sister group to Metepeira. Phylogenetic analysis using parsimony supports the hypothesis that Kaira is a likely sister group to Metepeira and that Zygiella is in the family Araneidae rather than the family Tetragnathidae.
3706000|Ground and aerial populations of linyphiid spiders were sampled in and above a grass and a cereal field, weekly from June-August 1991. Aerial activity of immature, adult male and adult female spiders was significantly higher over the senescing cereal field than the grass field. Water-trap catches and wind-speed data were used to calculate indices of aerial activity to show differences in the timing of dispersal by adult male, female and immature spiders. Some aerial dispersal occurred every week with highest adult dispersal in July and highest immature dispersal in August. Aerial activity indices were higher for males than females, and the dispersal peak occurred earlier for males than females. Immatures dispersed from the cereal field in July and August, and from the grass field mainly in August. Differences in aerial activity are discussed with reference to dispersal strategies that might maximize spider survival in the patchy, disturbed agricultural landscape.
25067881|A new species, Cryptocellus florezi, is described from a cave in Caquet Department, Colombia, and may be most closely related to the Venezuelan species C. lisbethae Gonzlez-Sponga 1998. The first known female of C. peckorum Platnick & Shadab 1977 is described, and new records of C. narino Platnick & Paz 1979 extend the known distribution of that species into Boyac and Tolima Departments.
3704970| Laboratory-reared females mature at the seventh instar, which is reached at the age of 302.5  25.2 days (n = 24). Males mature at either the sixth or the seventh instar and experience no postmaturation molts. "Small" males reach adulthood at the age of 235.7  14.8 days (n = 14), whereas "large" males require 281.8  10.7 days (n = 19). Large males are approximately 1.25 times bigger than small males in the lengths of six structures measured (carapace, femur, tibia, chela, metasomal segment V, and telson), and produce spermatophores that differ by the same ratio from those of small males. Growth rates are discussed with respect to sexual dimorphism, and the instar at which maturity is reached. Attaining maturity at different instars appears to be a common life history strategy among buthid scorpions: in some species males mature at different instars, in others females do, and in still others both sexes are variable. 
25067837|Pholcidae (Haplogynae) encompasses 967 described species, of which only 14 have been cytogenetic analyzed. Several chromosomal features have already been described including presence of meta- and sub-metacentric chromosomes and sex determination chromosome system (SDCS) of the X,
3705705|The diameters of axial fibers that support the cribellar threads of uloborids are shown by electron microscopy to be related to web architecture. Cribellar threads produced by the simple-web species Miagrammopes animotus and M. sp. are supported by the radial threads along which they are deposited. The axial fibers of these threads have smaller diameters than those of the self-supporting cribellar threads that are deposited between radial threads by members of the orb-weaving species Octonoba sinensis, Siratoba referena, and Uloborus glomosus and the triangle web-species Hyptiotes cavatus. Among these six species, axial fiber diameter is directly related to the maximum distance that a cribellar thread spans in the web. However, in O. sinensis and H. cavatus there is no intraweb difference in the diameters of axial fibers from short and long cribellar thread spans.
3706381| This study was undertaken to describe the web orientation, stabilimentum structure and predatory behavior of Argiope florida Chamberlin & Ivie 1944 (Araneae, Araneidae, Argiopinae), a virtually unstudied orb-web spider of the southeastern United States. Adult female Argiope florida were sampled from five sandy ridge areas of Florida. Compass orientation of the spider's dorsum, incline of the web from vertical and hub height were measured. The presence of male A. florida, barrier webs, kleptoparasitic species of Argyrodes Simon 1864 (Araneae, Theridiidae), wrapped prey and large areas of web damage were noted. Predatory behavior was elicited by touching a radius with a 100 Hz tuning fork. The number of stabilimentum arms was measured, along with their arrangement, length and number of silk bands. On average, webs faced 100 E of N, were inclined 19 from vertical and were 1 m from the ground at the hub. Responses to the tuning fork, which closely resembled the responses to actual prey, were more vigorous when Argyrodes spp. were present on the web, but were not different when wrapped prey were present on the web. Most webs had stabilimenta and most stabilimenta had four arms in a cruciate pattern. The upper arms tended to be smaller and spaced further apart than the lower arms. Spider size was related to the angle between the lower arms of the stabilimentum, but not to other measures of the stabilimentum. 
3705877|No correlation was found between the web angle and the directional web orientation (in relation to the sun) for the orb webs of Leucauge regnyi in the Luquillo Forest of Puerto Rico. These data suggest that the web angle of L. regnyi is not a thermoregulatory response. In addition, prey capture efficiency of sticky traps placed at the mean angle of webs of L. regnyi is compared with traps placed at vertical and horizontal orientations in three sites in this tropical forest. Prey captured in sticky traps indicate a trend of prey availability in this ecosystem: vertically oriented traps catch fewer prey than horizontal traps or traps at the mean angle of web orientations; at sites of little or intermediate ecological disturbance, mean angle orientations catch more prey than horizontal orientations. Although confirmation that traps and spiders capture the same types of prey is lacking, it may be that in this tropical forest system, more prey are made available to spiders with horizontal and nearly horizontal web orientations than to spiders with vertical webs.
23070783|Four new species of ricinuleids are described: Pseudocellus chankin from caves and surface collections in southern Mexico (Chiapas & Tabasco) and Guatemala (Petn); Pseudocellus jarocho from a single surface collection in Veracruz, Mxico; Pseudocellus oztotl, a troglobitic and troglomorphic species from Cueva de Las Tres Quimeras in the Sierra Negra, Puebla, Mexico; and Pseudocellus platnicki, also troglobitic and troglomorphic, known from a single cave in Coahuila, Mexico. The number of known species in the genus increases to 24, and Mexican species to 14. An identification key for adult males of the species found in Mexico and southern USA is provided.
24365308|We report the step-by-step process of developing de novo microsatellite (SSR) loci in two Loxosceles spider species. We used reads obtained with next-generation sequencing (Roche 454) to select hundreds of potentially-amplifiable SSRs. After testing amplification and cross-amplification, we characterized 18 SSRs, 11 of which were polymorphic in Loxosceles rufescens (Dufour 1820) and seven of which were polymorphic in L. sp. Fuerteventura - Lanzarote. This method is a relatively fast and economic procedure for the development of fast-evolving nuclear markers in spiders.
3706155| A new representative of the neotropical genus Cupiennius Simon 1891 (Araneae, Ctenidae) was found in the highlands of central Guatemala. Cupiennius remedius new species is the ninth species established for the genus. Like all other species of Cupiennius, C. remedius is a hunting spider living in close association with monocotyledonous plants where it hides in a retreat during the day and is active at night. C. remedius is of medium size (carapace length ca. 8 mm) compared to the other species of the genus and is the only Cupiennius species known to live sympatrically with C. salei. Live animals show a spotted coloration pattern unusual for the genus. The distinctive features of the male bulbi and female epigyna are described and an example is given of the species-specific courtship vibrations. In addition, we provide a revised key for the genus Cupiennius. /// Hemos encontrado un nuevo representante del gnero neotropical Cupiennius Simon 1891 (Araneae, Ctenidae) en las regines montaosas del centro de Guatemala. Cupiennius remedius nueva especie es la novena especie establecida para el gnero. Como todas las otras especies de Cupiennius, C. remedius es una araa cazadora que vive en estrecha asociacin con plantas monocotiledneas, en las que se oculta durante el da en un refugio y es activa durante la noche. En comparacin con las otras especies del gnero, C. remedius es de tamao intermedio (alrededor de 8 mm de longitud del caparazn) y es la nica especie de Cupiennius que se sabe que vive en simpatra con C. salei. Los animales vivos presentan un patrn de coloracin manchado que no es habitual en el gnero. Describimos las caractersticas distintivas de los bulbos de los machos y de los epiginos de las hembras e incluimos un ejemplo de las vibraciones de cortejo especficas de la especie. Adems, incluimos una clave revisada del gnero Cupiennius. 
24365317|A new species of the genus Charinus Simon 1892 from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described. Charinus jibaossu sp. n. is morphologically close to C. mysticus Giupponi & Kury 2002 and shows both a marked secondary sexual dimorphism in the pedipalps and an interesting polymorphism in the spines of the distitarsus. The new species is endangered because it inhabits a region highly impacted by mining activities.
24365277|Two specimens of a new spider from the Cretaceous (ca. 129 Ma) El Montsec Fossil-Lagersttte, northeastern Spain, are described as Montsecarachne amicus gen. et sp. nov. and referred to the extant haplogyne family Plectreuridae. Plectreurids are found today in only in the southwestern USA, Mexico, Central America and Cuba, but fossils show a more widespread distribution in Eurasia. The new species adds an additional stratigraphic and biogeographical record. The paleobiogeographical history of plectreurids is discussed, and it is concluded that the most likely scenario is that the family was more widespread in the past, and has suffered extinction over much of its range, resulting in the present distribution. Possibly, extant plectreurids represent a living remnant of a more diverse group of haplogynes that were widespread in the Mesozoic.
3705589| The harvestman genus Togwoteeus Roewer 1952 is monotypic. Its only species, T. biceps (Thorell 1877), is known from throughout western Canada and USA and is newly recorded from California, Nebraska, Nevada, Oregon, South Dakota, and Utah. This species occurs below 500 m and at the highest elevation (4100 m) of any recorded harvestman in North America. It ranges from about 33-54 N and exhibits considerable variation in its morphological measurements. Twenty-seven such measurements are summarized for 80 males and 74 females. Ultrastructural details of the integument, appendages and genital organs are presented. The karyotype is 2n = 22 for both sexes. All chromosomes are metacentric and obvious sex chromosomes were not detected. Immature T. biceps overwinter and reach adulthood in late spring or early summer. Adults die by late fall. 
3705286|The heart and arterial (efferent) circulatory system in Argas radiatus and Ornithodoros turicata (Argasidae) and in Ixodes scapularis, Dermacentor variabilis and Amblyomma tuberculatum (Ixodidae) are consistent in form with the plan observed in other apulmonate Arachnida. Specialized sinuses or vessels for channelization of venous (afferent) hemolymph are absent, but heart, arterial vessels and sinuses are well-developed. The heart lies in a sinus formed by the pericardial septum which is continuous with connective tissue processes of dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral suspensory muscles of the heart. Hemolymph flows from the pericardial sinus into two segmental cardiac cavities via two pairs of ostia. Walls of this pulsatile portion of the heart are formed from radiating muscle bands. On contraction, hemolymph is pumped through an anterior thin-walled heart region (aortic-myocardial cone), past an aortic septal valve which prevents back flow, into the anterior aorta and on to the periganglionic sinus. Hemolymph reaches peripheral parts of the body via arterial vessels which surround the pedal nerve trunks. Hemolymph also flows anteriorly, through the periesophageal sinus which surrounds the esophagus and the pharyngeal musculature, and into vessels surrounding nerves to the capitular appendages. An endosternum is present in argasid ticks. Its reported continuity with tissues forming the periganglionic sinus walls is confirmed in this group. No trace of an endosternum is observed in ixodid ticks. Loss of the endosternum appears to facilitate the extensive engorgement behavior observed in ixodid females. Extrinsic muscles present in the periganglionic sinus of all investigated tick species may be derived from dorso-ventral suspensory muscles of a prototypic endosternum. These muscles, together with the intrinsic muscles in the ventral wall of the aorta and the action of the aortic septal valve, may function in the maintenance of elevated arterial pressures. The specialized structure of the ventro-lateral suspensory muscles of the heart suggests that they may play an important role as proprioceptors. The presence of a highly condensed and regionally specialized heart, the existence of a pericardial sinus, and specializations of arterial vessels and sinuses, attest to the complexity and evolutionary advancement of the circulatory system in Ixodoidea.
4129841|The spider family Lagonomegopidae was described a decade ago from two specimens in Upper Cretaceous Siberian amber from the Taimyr Peninsula, and placed in the superfamily Palpimanoidea. Lagonomegopidae is known only from Cretaceous amber. Undiscovered extant species are considered unlikely because of their frequent occurrence in Cretaceous ambers and their absence in Tertiary fossil resins. One aim of this paper is to bring the existence of this family to the attention of neo-arachnologists. Burlagonomegops eskovi new genus and species is described from Cretaceous amber of Myanmar (Burma) and Lagonomegops americanus new species is assigned to a previously described, but unnamed specimen from Cretaceous New Jersey amber.
3705317|In a series of laboratory matings, adult Latrodectus mactans males were allowed to mate with up to three virgin females. The results demonstrate that L. mactans males are capable of successfully inseminating at least three females and that the tip of the embolus (apical sclerite) is not required for sperm transfer. An escape mechanism used by the male involving possible spatial disorientation of the female in her web during courtship and mating is described.
3705282|1. This study discusses a complex habitat selection strategy exhibited by a hunting spider species, the wolf spider Lycosa santrita, occupying desert riparian habitats in southeastern Arizona. 2. Field censuses of spider activity on various substrates show that significant associations exist between spiders and grass. This substrate provides the most predictable energy investment in prey capture of all natural substrates in the study area. 3. Mature spiders show less association with grass than younger spiders. Upon maturing, females move from the woodland area where grass is prominent to patches of bare ground and rock bordering a creek. Adult males also leave the woodland and settle in patches of leaf litter adjacent to the creek bed. 4. Available prey is shown to be highest on the bare ground substrate. As prey numbers were not found to differ significantly on any substrate through time, location changes made by adult spiders cannot be a reflection of temporal changes in local prey abundance. 5. We conclude that mature females require the greater numbers of prey afforded by the bare ground substrate for reproduction. 6. Mature male spiders move to the area of the creek bed in response to the presence of females in the area. Here the probability of mating is highest.
20617594|The tarantula genus Ephebopus is exceptional with respect to its urticating hairs: they are located on the palps rather than on the abdomen, as is the rule for other Neotropical tarantulas. These urticating hairs occupy a small field of 1-2 mm on the medial side of the palpal femora. Each urticating hair measures 500-600 m in length and 5-6 m in diameter. Almost the entire hair shaft is studded with little barbs that point toward the hair tip. Urticating hairs arise from a slipper-shaped socket in the cuticle, at an angle of 25-30. When the spider is threatened, it shows a brief palpal flick as a defensive reaction, whereby many urticating hairs are brushed off and fly through the air. These hairs do not have a preformed breaking point but become detached at the very base and are then pulled out from their sockets, like an arrow from a quiver. The actual release behavior occurs too quickly (0.1 s) to be followed by the naked eye. Video film analyses reveal that a single upward movement of the palps rubbing against the lateral surfaces of the spread chelicerae causes the dispersal of urticating hairs into the air.
3705934|Cladistic analyses of the antrodiaetid spider genera Atypoides O.P.-Cambridge 1883 and Antrodiaetus Ausserer 1871 yield a much more completely resolved phylogeny than that proposed by Coyle in 1971. Twenty-nine potentially informative characters were used in the analyses, which were performed using PAUP's a posteriori weighting options. Three independent analyses were performed, each with a different outgroup. These outgroups were 1) the antrodiaetid genus Aliatypus Smith 1908, the putative sister group of Atypoides plus Antrodiaetus, 2) Aliatypus gulosus Coyle 1974, the most primitive Aliatypus species, and 3) a hypothetical ancestral taxon based on character states found in Aliatypus and the Atypidae, the latter being the putative sister group of the antrodiaetids. These three analyses produced a total of eight most parsimonious trees which support the following principal conclusions: 1) Atypoides, as defined by Coyle, is paraphyletic (Atypoides riversi O. P.-Cambridge 1883 plus At. gertschi Coyle 1968 share with Antrodiaetus a common ancestor not shared with At. hadros Coyle 1968). 2) Antrodiaetus roretzi (L. Koch 1878) is a relict species which shares a unique common ancestor with all other Antrodiaetus species. 3) Coyle's unicolor group of nine Antrodiaetus species is paraphyletic; six of these form a recently-derived clade, (Antrodiaetus occultus Coyle 1971 (An. yesoensis [Uyemura 1942], An. cerberus Coyle 1971, (An. montanus [Chamberlin & Ivie 1933], (An. pugnax [Chamberlin 1917], An. hageni [Chamberlin 1917]), and the other three species, An. pacificus (Simon 1884), An. robustus (Simon 1890), and An. unicolor (Hentz 1841), are derived from more ancestral stock. 4) Coyle's lincolnianus group of three Antrodiaetus species, An. lincolnianus (Worley 1928), An. stygius Coyle 1971, and An. apachecus Coyle 1971, represents a valid clade. Our phylogeny suggests that two separate vicariance events led to the evolution of the two east Asian members of this otherwise North American assemblage. Vicariance events that are indicated by geological evidence and consistent with our phylogeny are postulated to account for the present distribution of North American species. New putative synapomorphies of Antrodiaetus, and of Antrodiaetus plus Atypoides, are proposed.
25067829|A new species of Erigonoplus, E. galophilus, is described from eastern Crimea, Ukraine.
25434304|The colonization of species on remote islands may result in phenotypic diversification and ultimately speciation. On the Galpagos Archipelago, seven very closely related morpho-species of the wolf spiders genus Hogna are distinguishable based on small somatic and genital differences. Based on habitat preference, these species can broadly be categorized into (i) three "high elevation species" occurring on the volcanic highlands, (ii) three "coastal dry" species occurring in dune habitats along the coast, and (iii) one generalist species which is chiefly found in wet coastal habitats such as salt marshes but also in wet habitats at higher altitudes. To determine the degree of reproductive isolation among these morpho-species, we investigated gene flow among populations and species based on nine allozyme loci. Genetic analysis by means of genetic distance estimates and cluster agglomerative analyses confirmed the status of the defined morpho-species. Allele frequencies were highly similar among populations within a species but differed profoundly among species. Genetic differentiation within the generalist species was generally very low. There were no constant differences between high elevation and coastal populations for this species. Neutral genetic divergence between species appeared to correspond more to geographic distribution rather than to a clear separation of the two different ecological groups within an island. This suggests that a parallel parapatric divergence between high elevation and coastal dry species may have taken place on the oldest islands of San Cristobal and Santa Cruz.
3706064|A new fossil Linyphiidae: Linyphiinae is described from 125-135 Ma old (Upper Neocomian-basal Lower Aptian) Cretaceous amber from the Kdeirji/Hammana outcrop, Lebanon. This is the oldest known linyphiid as well as the oldest described amber spider. The first major radiation of the linyphiid subfamilies occurred in the early Cretaceous, if not before, and the presence of Linyphiidae in this period predicts the presence of Pimoidae then too. Current evidence, which suggests the higher araneoids did not radiate and diversify until after the end-Cretaceous mass extinction event may be an artefact of sample size.
23070789|Several scorpions of the genus Vaejovis in Arizona are restricted in range to mountain-top forests. These scorpions, informally referred to as the "vorhiesi complex" are very similar morphologically, but their geographic distribution has attracted the attention of several researchers, resulting in the description of a few new species in recent years. However, these species were described from small sample sizes and were diagnosed with questionable characters that were not sufficiently analyzed. This study evaluates the morphology of scorpions of the "vorhiesi complex" from seven regions in Arizona to verify the validity of the species and their accompanying diagnoses. Morphological characters examined include morphometrics, hemispermatophores, size and shape of subaculear tubercles of the telson vesicle, pectinal tooth counts, pedipalp chela denticle counts, metasomal setal counts, development of metasomal carinae, and tarsal spinule counts. New diagnoses are given for previously described species (V. vorhiesi Stahnke 1940, V. lapidicola Stahnke 1940, V. paysonensis Soleglad 1973, V. cashi Graham 2007 and V. deboerae Ayrey 2009), which are considered valid, based on the morphological evidence gathered. A new species of Vaejovis, V. electrum, is described from the Pinaleo Mountains in Arizona.
25067828|A new species, Socalchemmis arroyoseco, described from Monterey County, California, is clearly not a member of either of the species groups currently recognized in that genus, but does appear to be more closely related to those species groups than to the other genera in the Liocranoides complex.
3706303|Eilica pomposa new species, from Buenos Aires, Argentina, and the male of E. uniformis (Schiapelli & Gerschman 1942) are described for the first time. New records from Argentina for E. uniformis, E. modesta and E. trilineata are included.
41804582|We describe post-ovipositional maternal care in Liogonyleptoides tetracanthus Mello-Leito 1932 (Gonyleptinae) and experimentally evaluate the protective role of this behavior against egg predation under laboratory conditions. Females laid 138.8 eggs on average and remained close to the clutch during the entire day. Eggs hatched after 11-15 days and nymphs dispersed from maternal protection after one to two days. Most of the experimental clutches left unattended were entirely consumed by conspecifics in 2-3 days. There was no reduction in egg number in the clutches protected by females. Although biological data are scarce, there are cases of egg hiding, paternal and maternal care within the subfamily Gonyleptinae. This diversity of forms of parental care is unusual when compared to other gonyleptid subfamilies, and future systematic revisions of the polyphyletic Gonyleptinae should include parental care as a potential source of phylogenetic information.
3705268|Male Dolomedes triton perform announcement displays consisting of leg-waving and jerks in response to water that has contacted the integument of female conspecifics. Jerks cause bursts of concentric surface waves that probably provide a signal for the female. Males also follow the female's dragline, using a lycosid-like manner on land but switching to rowing and pulling when the line is on water. When close enough to touch the female, the male performs a courtship display consisting of rapid leg tapping, which, with the female's leg-waving, results in prolonged leg interplay between the sexes.
3705906| Webs and building behavior of Synotaxus ecuadorensis are highly ordered and complex. Their webs differ from those of other Synotaxus species, but there are several apparent homologies in building behavior. The overall construction sequence differs from that of many other spiders in not being organized around a central portion or retreat. Instead, lines are added to one leading edge in a crochet-like fashion. Comparison with other Synotaxus species suggests how building behavior is organized within the spider. /// La tela y el proceso de construccin de la tela de Synotaxus ecuadorensis son complejas y altamente organizadas. La tela de esta especie difiere de las de otras especies de Synotaxus, pero el comportamiento de construccin muestra varias posibles homologas. La secuencia de pasos en la construccin difiere de muchas otras araas en no estar organizada alrededor de un punto o area central. Al contrario, la araa agrega hilos al borde de la tela, en un proceso semejante a lo de la crochet. Se sugiere, a base de una comparicin entre los comportamientos de las diferentes especies de Synotaxus, como esta organizada el comportamiento de construccin dentro de la araa. 
41758974|The first record of the palpigrade Eukoenenia gasparoi Cond 1988 in Croatia is reported. We review the distribution of this troglobiotic species endemic to the classical European Karst region, give an illustrated description of the adult stages and the juvenile female, and evaluate divergence among the populations. Morphological differences reflect individual-level rather than population-level variation.
3705494|Linyphiid spiders were tested individually in the laboratory in order to assess possible factors stimulating the onset of ballooning behavior. An air flow chamber was used for many of the tests. Air movement was found to be an important stimulus for initiating both the climb to a prominent position and subsequent take-off attempts. After instigation of pre-flight behavior by an initial air flow stimulus, climbing continued in still air, though take-off attempts generally ceased in the absence of further air movement. Neither circadian rhythmicity nor darkness were found to prevent exhibition of ballooning behavior at night. Length of time spent attempting to take-off appeared to be a factor in reducing a spider's response to the stimuli causing ballooning behavior.
3705107|Cluster analyses of 51 quantified carapace features from each of 34 species representing all known uloborid genera fail to produce a consistent pattern of overall similarity. However, a minimum spanning tree and a principal axis analysis of these features shows that formation of PLE tubercles and other anterior lateral carapace changes are most responsible for explaining carapace diversity within the Uloboridae. Many of these same features are shown by discriminant analysis to be most highly correlated with web type, indicating that they are functionally linked to changes in web monitoring and use. A survey of the endosternites of Hyptiotes, Miagrammopes, and Philoponella, and carapace musculature of the latter two genera shows many changes in carapace form to be associated with muscle reorientation that facilitates use of a reduced orb-web. The presence of eye tubercles associated with the most extremely modified carapaces also appears to ventrally extend the spider's vision.
3705918|Courtship and mating in Dictyna volucripes Keys. are described on the basis of laboratory observations of 13 virgin pairs. Their behavior conformed well to the general pattern within the family. Various features of both female and male behavior are consistent with the view that courtship functions mainly in influencing mate-choice by females, rather than in inhibiting predatory attack upon males. Laboratory and field observations show that pairs commonly remain together for some days after mating. While the function of such cohabitation is unknown, it can evidently provide an important preadaptation in the evolution of spider sociality.
23610250|New records of the extinct arachnid order Trigonotarbida are described from Upper Pennsylvanian (Moscovian: Bolsovian [=Westphalian C]) spoil heaps associated with the Tnec mine near the village of Tnec in West Bohemia, Czech Republic. Three specimens are recorded, two of which are incomplete opisthosomas assigned to Trigonotarbida incertae sedis. A third fossil is more complete and is described here as Tynecotarbus tichaveki gen. et sp. nov. Its familial position is uncertain, but the presence of a weakly lobed carapace and finely tuberculate body ornament suggests affinities with the 'eophrynid assemblage' sensu Dunlop & Brauckmann (2006) and particularly the family Lissomartidae from Mazon Creek, USA. In order to be comprehensive in our study, we include a complete list of Czech trigonotarbids.
3706145|Major ampullate (dragline) silk is attracting significant attention as a potentially useful engineering fiber. This interest is motivated by reports that the silk exhibits high mean strength, stiffness and toughness as measured in tensile tests. However, the typical testing conditions (constant strain rate; experiment completed within less than an hour) imposed during such assessments do not reflect typical demands (e.g. ability to support constant load for long times) made on real high-tensile materials. We demonstrate here that Nephila clavipes major ampullate silk subjected to constant loads performs poorly: its breaking strength is significantly lower than that measured in conventional constant strain rate tests, and even very small constant loads can cause elongation to increase appreciably over long timescales.
3705246|The scorpion Diplocentrus peloncillensis new species (Scorpionida, Diplocentridae) is described from specimens collected in the Peloncillo Mts. and Guadalupe Mts. of New Mexico and Arizona. Related to D. spitzeri Stahnke and D. keyserlingi zacatecanus Hoffmann, it can be separated from these two species by the tarsomere II spine formula and by several morphometric differences, most important of which are the relative lengths of the pedipalp humerus and metasoma segment V. Brief ecological observations on the new species are reported.
41758978|Even though Hadrobunus grandis (Say 1821) is the type species of Hadrobunus, its identity has been uncertain since its original description. The type specimens were collected in coastal Georgia and/or northeastern Florida during the winter of 18171818, not from the mid-Atlantic Region (e.g., Virginia, Maryland) as assumed by some authors. This error has resulted in persistent confusion with H. maculosus (Wood 1868), the dominant Hadrobunus species in the mid-Atlantic region. The type specimens of H. grandis were lost or destroyed, but all surviving evidence suggests that the species known as Leiobunum aurugineum Crosby & Bishop 1924 is a synonym of H grandis. Examination of available museum specimens revealed two species. Populations east of the Apalachicola River correspond to the historical description of L. aurugineum in having sacculate penes, and are thus identical to H. grandis; those west of the river lack penial sacs and are placed in the new species H. nonsacculatus.
3706069|This paper contains keys to the 65 genera of araneid spiders known from the Americas. These genera hold approximately fifteen hundred species found in the Americas. The key to females uses mostly artificial characters; the key to males uses diagnostic characters. There are four new synonyms and two new placements.
3706331|Certain joints in the pedipalps of scorpions and sun-spiders lack extensor muscles but have elastic transarticular sclerites that store energy during flexion and return energy as elastic recoil during extension. This study quantifies the extension torque contributed by elastic recoil and hydraulic pressure in the chela (tibia-tarsus) and femur-patella joints of scorpions and the patella-tibia and tibitarsus joints of sun-spiders. Extension torque was measured as isolated joints were cycled through a natural range of angles and angular velocities by a computer controlled stepper motor. Resilience (efficiency of elastic energy return) of transarticular sclerites in the absence of internal fluid pressure was about 60% in scorpion joints and 80% in sun-spider joints. Elastic torque increased almost linearly with flexion angle in most joints except in the scorpion chela, where elastic torque decreased rapidly as the fully closed joint began to open, increased gradually and then decreased again near the fully open position. Hydraulic pressure contributed more to extension of pedipalpal joints of scorpions than those of sun-spiders. Our results indicate that mechanical properties of a "passive" transarticular sclerite can be changed by altering internal fluid pressure and by capitalizing on the sclerite's intrinsic viscoelasticity.
41758969|Microstigmatidae are small ground-dwelling and free-living spiders. The present study reports on the copulatory behavior of Xenonemesia platensis Goloboff 1989, constituting the first report on sexual behavior of the Microstigmatidae. Our findings in X. platensis did not show evidence of pheromones associated with silk. The courtship behavioral units of males was comprised of quivers by legs I and II, brusque movements of the palps, and leg tapping with legs II. During mating, a novel courtship behavior by males was observed that consisted of tapping and scraping with legs II on the female legs. The present study not only gives a description of mating behavior in Microstigmatidae for the first time, but also reports strong evidence of nongenital copulatory courtship activity in mygalomorph spiders.
3705481|The neotropical spider Aebutina binotata Simon (Dictynidae?), previously known from a few museum specimens, was discovered to live in colonies and to exhibit highly cooperative behaviors that would classify it as non-territorial, permanently social. Colonies of this species, that contained from 14-106 adult females plus their offspring, were observed in a tropical rainforest site in Eastern Ecuador. The spiders occupied communal nests in which they cooperated in prey capture and fed communally on the prey. Large prey items were moved to the feeding site by the coordinated effort of two or three individuals. The spiders periodically carried out web maintenance activities; but when widespread damage to the nest occurred, they moved as a group to a new location. Care of the brood appeared to be communal since the offspring from different mothers intermixed in the colonies and were all cared for by a decreasing number of surviving females. Adult females participated most heavily in all the activities of the colonies, with no apparent division of labor among them. In particular, no reproductive division of labor was observed: all adult females in colonies observed throughout the egg-laying period apparently laid a single egg sac each.
3706117|Several specimens of a unique spider were collected in Okinawajima Island, Southwestern Japan. They resemble the spiders of the genus Leucauge and its related genera. Phylogenetic analysis was performed to clarify the taxonomic position of the spider, which showed that the focal spider is a sister of a monophyletic group consisting of Tylorida and Mesida. Therefore it is described as a new genus and species under the name Okileucauge sasakii new species. This species lacks the rows of trichobothria on femur IV, which is the synapomorphy of the genera Tylorida and Mesida.
3706183|The African spider genus Singafrotypa Benoit is redescribed and transferred from the tetragnathid subfamily Nephilinae to the araneid subfamily Araneinae. Cladistic analysis of the matrix of Scharff & Coddington (1997) with the addition of two Singafrotypa species supports this new placement. Singafrotypa acanthopus Simon, the type species of the genus, is described along with two new species: Singafrotypa okavango new species from Botswana, and Singafrotypa mandela new species from South Africa. Singafrotypa goliath Benoit is transferred to Neoscona Simon (Araneidae, Araneinae).
3705146|Four Megacormus gertschi Diaz females gave birth in the laboratory to 19, 25, 26 and 75 young. Laboratory-born specimens were raised to the fourth instar, and morphometric analysis of growth rates leads to the prediction that this species attains sexual maturity with the eighth instar. The mating behavior and the spermatophore are described, providing the only observations available for the subfamily Megacorminae.
24365318|Mountain habitats host a large number of endemic species, which are vulnerable to climate change. We studied scorpion communities of the Central Andes in Argentina at 17 sites located in Andean and extra-Andean areas between 900 and 3400 m elevation. Using pitfall traps, we collected 254 individuals from seven species, all from the Bothriuridae family. Although we expected a decrease in richness towards the high altitude sites, we did not find a clear pattern. In turn, the lowest site was the most diverse and rich; other sites had similar richness values regardless of altitude. High-altitude sites were characterized by the presence of Orobothriurus Maury 1975 species. Orobothriurus alticola (Pocock 1899) has been found exclusively on Andean sites located above 3200 m, and O. grismadoi Ojanguren-Affilastro et al. 2009 has only been found at extra-Andean sites on Cerro Nevado. Community composition showed an association with altitude, with some species exclusive to high altitude sites and others only found at lower sites. Because of the ecological importance of scorpions in arid environments, this study provides base information that may help design conservation actions for these habitats. In particular, the presence of high-altitude specialists like Orobothriurus species seems relevant, since they may be used as bioindicator species.
3705495|Penultimate-instar crab spiders Misumena vatia foraging on goldenrod Solidago spp. in late summer gained mass slowly, averaging 0.8 mg/day, and usually did not molt into the adult stage before the end of the summer. In contrast, adults gained mass rapidly at this site, averaging 8.8 mg/day, taking larger prey and taking them more often than penultimates. The penultimates' prey consisted primarily of small flies, bees and wasps, and overlapped broadly with those of the adults, but did not include the most important resource of the adults, bumble bees, upon which the adults registered most of their gain. Penultimates captured prey biomass at only one-tenth the rate of the adults, and one-third the rate of adults per unit body mass.
3706314| We investigated the pattern of molecular variation with respect to secondary structure in the 16S ribosomal RNA gene and its phylogenetic implications for arachnids with a focus on spiders. Based on a model by Gutell et al. (1996), secondary structures were proposed for the 3 half of 16S in the mygalomorph spider Aptostichus atomarius. Models were also constructed for a hypervariable length of the 16S in three other arachnids, which revealed a trend of stem and loop reduction in more advanced arachnids. Using a simple statistical approach to compare functional regions, we found that internal and external loops are more variable than stems or connection regions. Down-weighting or excluding regions which code for the more variable loops improved tree topologies by restoring the monophyly of the genus Aptostichus, a group supported by combined 16S, COI, and morphological data in other analyses. This study demonstrated the utility of considering secondary structure for DNA sequence alignment and phylogenetic reconstruction in spiders. 
3705069|An improved and simple technique is described for determining the magnitude of the recently observed phenomenon of supercontraction of major ampullate silk fibers of orb-web-building spiders. Supercontraction ratios obtained by the use of that method and also from an instrumental method are given. It is seen that only three levels of supercontraction are found among twenty two species of orb-web-building spiders. The data are presented on the basis of taxonomic classification and are subjected to statistical analyses in order to determine which ones may be effectively differentiated from the others. A contribution to the integerity of the wetted web is suggested as a function for the retractive driving force which underlies supercontraction. Mention is made of the possible usefulness of supercontraction as a taxonomic symptom.
3705394|Males of a social theridiid spider, Achaearanea wau Levi, have a prolonged and complex courtship in the communal web. They also mate opportunistically, by copulating with females engaged in molting or feeding. Ritualized aggression occurs between males during attempts to mate with molting females and during courtship. I describe the courtship, mating, and agonistic behaviors observed in A. wau and the conditions in which the different behaviors occur and discuss ways in which the social organization may have modified mating behavior. This is the first detailed description of the mating system of a highly social species of spider.
3705467|Cohabiting pairs of adult spiders are likely to interact over prey, and the outcome of these interactions is likely to affect the reproductive success of both individuals. In two species of pholcid spiders, previous workers reported the occurrence of "chivalrous" behavior, in which males cede prey to females. We looked for the occurrence of chivalrous behavior in another pholcid spider, Holocnemus pluchei. Pairs of spiders were placed on a web and left overnight without prey. A housefly was then introduced onto the web equidistant from the spiders, and subsequent interactions were noted on audiotape. We found no evidence of chivalry in pairs of unknown mating status or in pairs that had recently mated: males and females were equally likely to win the prey, and intensity of interactions over prey was not influenced by the gender of the winner. The differences in our results compared to previously published work may be attributable to the fact that Holocnemus lives in unusually dense populations in nature. This, in combination with a pattern of last-male sperm priority, means that females may be difficult for males to monopolize, and a male will not substantially increase his own reproductive success by ceding prey to a female with which he has mated if others are also likely to mate with her.
20798579|Of all the wolf spiders (Araneae: Lycosidae), the genus Schizocosa Chamberlin 1904 is probably the most widely studied, and has become an established model in studies of behavior, sexual selection, and speciation. Much of the work to date involves the complex, often multimodal courtship behaviors and secondary sexual traits used by males to elicit receptivity from potential mates. Schizocosa bilineata (Emerton 1885) is one of those species where males possess decorative tufts of bristles on the forelegs that likely play a role in sexual selection, but little is known of male courtship behavior or its role in mate choice. In the present study, we provide the first description of visual and seismic behaviors performed by males in response to female silk and chemical cues, and examine male-female behavioral interactions in live mating trials. Males clearly recognized and responded to female chemical cues by displaying several species-specific visual signaling behaviors accompanied by seismic signals from stridulation. As these behaviors rarely occurred in the absence of female cues, we suggest they function primarily in a courtship context. In live mating trials, females typically responded to male courtship with visual receptivity behaviors, which were seen prior to mounting and copulation. While both visual and seismic signals of males are clearly implicated in courtship and mate choice, future work will be necessary to fully understand the interaction between modalities in this species. The description of behavior provided here should help resolve the relationship between male ornamentation and courtship behavior in the genus Schizocosa.
3705673| Individuals of Dysdera crocata and Ariadna bicolor usually drown during the first day of submersion in aerated water (21 to 25C). However, if submerged while in their nests, they remain capable of activity for up to 10 days. Those residing underwater for the average of 3 days or for a longer period cannot continue to rely on the original oxygen supply of the nest's air store, which is less than a 2-day supply. A decrease in dissolved oxygen in the water, as measured in closed systems, indicates that the bubble held in the nest acts as a physical gill, with oxygen uptake averaging 3 to 4 l h
23070801|Nesticus eremita Simon 1879 is naturally found in caves in southern Europe. It has also invaded and established itself in Germany and has now been found in an abandoned air-raid tunnel in Auckland, New Zealand. A diagnosis, redescription, full synonymy and illustrations are presented to aid in the identification of this potentially invasive spider.
3705451|Encounters and effects of predators were examined for group-living and solitary dispersers of the spider Stegodyphus dumicola Pocock 1898 (family Eresidae) in Namibia. Birds and araneophagous spiders were major predators of solitary spiders; group members living in large, tough, complex nests were less vulnerable. Arboreal pugnacious ants Anoplolepis steingroeveri (Forel 1894) frequently attacked S. dumicola colonies of all sizes. As a means of defense against ants, the spiders produced copious amounts of sticky cribellar silk. Solitary spiders were incapable of sustaining this resistance for as long as groups could and usually died when ants attacked. Solitary individuals were, however, less likely to contract a contagious fungal disease that spread in large, old nests after rain. I conclude that the action of predators may explain why S. dumicola tend to be avidly social as well as prudently solitary.
3705373|It was observed that the jumping spider Menemerus bivittatus lives on light surfaces as well as on dark surfaces, hunting prey which is lighter or darker than the surface the spider is on. From these observations arises the question about the brightness or contrast discrimination abilities of this spider. The orientation response was recorded for 14 spiders to a moving circular prey-stimulus varying from white, through grey, to black, against a white, grey or black background. When the stimulus was darker than the background, there was a rapid increase in response as the stimulus gets darker. This rapid change in response with stimulus brightness did not occur when the stimulus was lighter than the background. These results reveal a high contrast discrimination ability and also a dependence of the response on the overall stimulation conditions.
41804577|Cyphophthalmi, commonly known as mite harvestmen, are a suborder of cryptic Opiliones with a global distribution. The genus Austropurcellia Juberthie 1988 is a lineage of mite harvestmen currently known from a small number of localities in the forests of Queensland, Australia. We describe four new species of Austropurcellia (A. alata, A. culminis, A. despectata, and A. vicina) from museum lots; each new species is known from only a single collection and few specimens. We present the first key to the species of Austropurcellia, a catalogue of known collecting localities, and a distribution map. Although our current knowledge of the diversity and distribution of this genus is certainly incomplete, it is clear that these narrow-range endemics have great potential as a system for understanding the role of historical forest fragmentation in the evolution of rainforest animals.
3705801| In this paper, three species-groups within the genus Urophonius are recognized: exochus group, granulatus group and brachycentrus group. The diagnostic characters used at this level are: arrangement of ventral submedian carinae in metasomal segment I; ventral chaetotaxy in metasomal segments I, II and III; telotarsal spine formula (legs III and IV); morphology of lobe region of hemispermatophore; relative location of femur trichobothria d and e, and macrosetae M1 and M2; ventral pigmentation pattern of metasoma. A key for the nominate species in the genus, as well as some comments on distribution and bioecology, are added. /// Se reconoce la existencia de tres grupos de especies dentro del gnero Urophonius: grupo exochus, grupo granulatus y grupo brachycentrus. Los caracteres diagnsticos empleados a este nivel son: disposicin de carenas ventrales submedianas en segmento caudal I; quetotaxia ventral en segmentos caudales I, II y III; frmula de espinulacin telotarsal (patas III y IV); morfologa de la regin de lbulos del hemiespermatforo; posicin relativa de las tricobotrias femorales d y e, y las macroquetas M1 y M2; patrn de pigmentacin ventral en metasoma. Se incluyen una clave para las especies nominadas del gnero, as como algunos comentarios sobre distribucin y bioecologa. 
23048802|Sheet-webs are built by a variety of unrelated spiders. Some of these spiders are common, but information on their web construction behavior is scarce. This study describes the sheet-web construction behavior of Melpomene sp. (Agelenidae) and the sites where webs are built. I recorded the beginning of sheet-web construction by several spiders and analyzed photographs of webs in the field and the laboratory. Web construction consisted basically of two alternating behaviors: laying support threads and the filling in the sheet. These behaviors were repeated during several construction sessions until the available area was filled, or until the web reached approximately 80 cm2. Apparently the spider uses both ampullate and aciniform lines for web construction, contrary to a recent description.
3705217| Polymorphism is documented in species of the genus Phiale. Controlled rearing of Phiale tristis Mello-Leito, 1945 demonstrated the existence of a chromatic sex-controlled polymorphism, with polymorphic females and monomorphic males. There is strong evidence that other three species are also polymorphic: Phiale mimica (Koch), P. crocea Koch and Phiale ortrudae, new species. These four species together with Phiale bulbosa (Cambridge), new combination (of which only the male holotypus is known), form a homogeneous group within the genus Phiale. Seven specific names are synonymized: Phiale mutilloides Mello-Leito, 1947 = P. tristis Mello-Leito, 1945; P. rubrosericea Mello-Leito, 1947 = P. tristis; P. nigrosigillata Mello-Leito, 1947 = P. tristis; Freya bella (C. L. Koch, 1846) = P. mimica (C. L. Koch, 1846); Freya obscura (Taczanowski, 1872) = P. crocea C. L. Koch. 1846; Chira luctuosa Simon, 1902 = P. crocea; P. zonata Caporiacco, 1947 = P. crocea. /// Se documenta el polimorfismo en especies de Salticidae del gnero Phiale. La cra controlada de Phiale tristis Mello-Leito, 1945, demostr la existencia de polimorfismo cromtico controlado por el sexo, con hembras polimrficas y machos monomrficos. Se evidencia que otras tres especies son tambin polimrficas: Phiale mimica (Koch), Phiale crocea Koch y Phiale ortrudae nueva especie. Estas cuatro especies, junto con Phiale bulbosa (Cambridge), nueva combinacin (de la cual solo se conoce el holotipo macho), forman un grupo homogneo dentro del gnero Phiale. Se establece la sinonimia de siete nombres especficos: Phiale mutilloides Mello-Leito, 1947 = P. tristis Mello-Leito, 1945; P. rubrosericea Mello-Leito, 1947 = P. tristis; P. nigrosigillata Mello-Leito, 1947 = P. tristis; Freya bella (C. L. Koch, 1846) = P. mimica (C. L. Koch, 1846); Freya obscura (Taczanowski, 1872)= P. crocea C. L. Koch, 1846; Chira luctuosa Simon, 1902 = P. crocea; P. zonata Caporiacco, 1947 = P. crocea. 
24365283|Understanding when and how animals use their performance capacities can yield insights into the selection pressures driving high performance. Using two species of cursorial spiders, Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz 1844) and Rabidosa rabida (Walckenaer 1837) (Araneae: Lycosidae), we investigated the escape speeds exhibited by individuals of various body sizes in response to three aversive stimuli (jets of air, seismic cue, prodding) to determine how individuals use their performance capacity in response to different stimuli. We found that large individuals of both species exhibited their highest observed escape speeds in response to jets of air, whereas smaller individuals exhibited their fastest observed escape performances in response to prodding. We hypothesized that differences in escape behavior may reflect differences in risk associated with each cue type: fast moving jets of air may announce the arrival of an avian predator, and large individuals may be at greater risk of avian predation owing to their more conspicuous body size; whereas smaller individuals may be more susceptible to arthropod predators, which attack from the level of the spider, similar to a prod. We then performed an unreplicated mark-recapture, avian-exclosure experiment for both species, where we tracked individuals' persistence for 30 d. Consistent with our predictions, we found that larger individuals enjoyed greater persistence in our avian exclosure treatment, but their advantage was lost when avian predators were allowed to enter. Our results suggest that these spiders express their highest performances in only their most dire situations.
3706070|The new species Leptoneta changlini, L. huisunica, L. nigrabdomina and L. taiwanensis are described and illustrated from Taiwan, and the natural history of L. changlini and L. huisunica is described. These species are only known from male specimens.
25654010|Spiders spin a variety of task-specific silk fibers, each composed of one or more unique proteins synthesized within specialized glands in the spider's abdomen. Tubuliform glands are the source of the large diameter silk fibers used by many species in the construction of egg cases. Unlike other silk glands that synthesize protein throughout a spider's lifetime, the tubuliform glands synthesize silk in association with the maturation of oocytes, culminating in the production of an egg case. In the Western black widow, Lactrodectus hesperus Chamberlin & Ivie (1935), egg case fibers are composed of at least three proteins: tubuliform spidroin 1 (TuSp1), egg case protein-1 (ECP-1), and egg case protein-2 (ECP-2). Here, we present the first study to quantify the pattern of transcription for these three genes in a developmental series of tubuliform glands from L. hesperus. All three transcripts increase in abundance prior to the production of an egg case, but at different time points. After egg case production, silk transcripts are still detectable in the tubuliform glands. Relative abundance of TuSp1 mRNA is several orders of magnitude higher than that of ECP-1 and ECP-2 at almost every stage. The relative abundance of silk transcripts across the reproductive life history of black widows suggests differential regulation of silk gene transcription within tubuliform glands.
25434313|Rhopalurus rochai (Borelli 1910) is a very common scorpion species found in the semiarid areas of Pernambuco State, Brazil. This work describes the life history traits of 1st instar R. rochai such as litter size, development time, dispersal, and survivorship. The development of 2nd instar juveniles under different feeding regimens was also investigated to determine the effect of food and body mass on intermolt period and number of ecdyses. Field-collected females displaying an enlarged mesosoma were observed daily in the laboratory to obtain newborns that were used to assess events in the 1st instar. Females gave birth on average to 35.8 young (range = 23-55). The duration of the 1st instar (from eclosion to ecdysis) ranged from 7 to 10 days (n = 179). Dispersal started as early as one day following ecdysis and lasted up to 9 days post-molt. All starved juveniles died between days 11 and 30 of the 2nd instar. Increasing food ingestion did not enhance the probability of molting, but decreased risk of mortality and increased the time to the second molt. The relationship between the weight changes during feeding experiments suggests that the threshold weight for molt is 34.3 mg. Together these results suggest that developmental periods for R. rochai are slightly greater than those recorded for other buthid genera. These results indicate that there may be inherent physiological costs associated with rapidly increasing mass that may strongly impact foraging strategy.
3705496|The Central American scorpion Centruroides thorelli Kraepelin 1891 is redescribed, based on examination of the type material and additional specimens now available. It is readily diagnosed by its smaller body size, mottled color pattern, the shape of the female pectinal basal piece, and the shape of the male telson and subaculear tubercle. Two new species related to C. thorelli are also described, one from the lowlands of Guatemala and the other from mountainous areas in southern Tamaulipas and northern San Luis Potosi in Mexico.
3706022|A major factor which affects an animal's consumption rate is competition for food items. Competition usually results in a drop in consumption rate; however, this may be counteracted if the animals can exploit the foraging efforts of others, as could occur in social spiders when feeding on the same prey item. Spiders digest prey extra-orally and might utilize the enzymes or digesta produced by other individuals feeding from the same prey item. We investigated prey consumption in the social spider Stegodyphus dumicola to determine if the rate of consumption of individual spiders changed in the presence of competitors. We found that when one spider fed on small prey, food consumption rate decreased with feeding duration. When the prey was larger in relation to the spider there was an initial delay in consumption. There was no apparent advantage for a second spider to feed on a prey item already being consumed: the second spider fed for less time and gained less mass. These results indicate that social spiders compete during the process of food ingestion and the presence of another spider reduces the value of the prey item to a subsequent forager.
3705363|The borregoensis group of the nominate subgenus Paruroctonus Werner, 1934, of North America, is differentiated by the combination of: basitarsus II without a mid-retrosuperior seta, pectinal teeth usually 22 or fewer in males and 16 or fewer in females, pedipalp palm with carinae of female weak and smooth, pedipalp primary denticles in rows 1-5 usually 36 or fewer on movable finger and 28 or fewer on fixed finger. Nine essentially allopatric, arenicolous species constituting the borregoensis group are defined or redefined, and keyed: P. luteolus (Gertsch and Soleglad, 1966), Mojave and Colorado Deserts; P. pseudopumilis (Williams, 1970), southern Vizcaino Desert; P. borregoensis Williams, 1972), Colorado Desert; P. borregoensis actites, ssp., northeastern coastal Baja California Norte; P. bajae Williams, 1972, eastern coastal Baja California Norte; P. ventosus Williams, 1972, western coastal Baja California Norte; P. surensis Williams and Haradon, 1980, northwestern Vizcaino Desert; P. ammonastes, n. sp., southeastern Mojave Desert; P. hirsutipes, n. sp., southeastern Colorado Desert; P. nitidus, n. sp., southern Baja California Norte.
3705491|The central-marginal model proposes marginal populations contain a lower density of individuals, lower levels of genetic variation, and are more isolated than populations in the center of a species range. Previous tests of the model used Drosophila, organisms capable of extended dispersal. We test the central-marginal model with scorpions, organisms with restricted dispersal abilities. We measured genetic variation through allozyme analysis of eight loci (five polymorphic, three monomorphic) to obtain estimates of heterozygosity. We compared differences between the two types of populations with a split-plot ANOVA. We also compared central and marginal populations using standard parametric tests. We found marginal populations contain lower genetic variation than central populations. These populations may be important as models in conservation to study the effects of fragmentation.
41758965|Many species use autotomy, the self-amputation of an appendage, as a last-gasp method to escape a predator. Although this behavior can have immediate survival benefits, it can also negatively affect future survival or reproduction. The wolf spider Pardosa valens Barnes 1959 occurs along small mountain streams in southeastern Arizona, where it moves both on cobble along the stream and on top of the water's surface. Autotomy of legs is common in this species, and we hypothesized that such leg loss could lead to decreased sprint speed in both terrestrial and aquatic locomotion. We examined burst speed in the laboratory on artificial terrestrial and aquatic racetracks during 2005 (both males and females) and 2006 (females only). In 2005 terrestrial trials, intact spiders were faster than autotomized spiders, but there was no effect of sex on speed. In contrast, 2005 aquatic trials revealed that females ran faster than males, but that autotomy had a negative impact on the speed of females only. Additionally, female spiders generally ran faster on the terrestrial track later in the day than earlier in the day, suggesting that environmental variables such as temperature may have some influence on spider locomotion. Males were less likely to run on water than were females, and ran shorter distances when they did run. Results for females during 2006 also showed a decline in speed with autotomy, and an increase during later trials, although the results were weaker than during 2005, with only the aquatic trials showing a significant difference. These results suggest that leg autotomy in this spider does have a cost, but that the magnitude of this cost depends on aspects of the spider (e. g., sex) and habitat (e. g., substrate and environmental conditions).
41804575|Available evidence suggests that sociality in the spider genus Anelosimus Simon has evolved as a gradual transition from short-term maternal care to permanent sociality. The discovery and description of new species displaying various intermediate levels of sociality deepens our understanding of this transition. Here I use five molecular loci (28S, ITS2, COI, 16S, ND1) to phylogenetically place specimens of an intermediate-social population from Uruguay, previously and tentatively identified as the widespread and common A. studiosus (Hentz 1850). The Chinese A. chonganicus Zhu 1998 is also phylogenetically placed for the first time, and new sequences from four additional Anelosimus species and two theridiid genera (Audifia Keyserling, Tekellina Levi) are all combined with previously published data to reconstruct a novel phylogeny of Anelosimus spiders. This phylogeny recaptures previously well-established groups and reiterates well-known themes such as the multiple origin of sociality. The Uruguayan specimens nest outside of A. studiosus, and I therefore describe these as a new species, Anelosimus vierae sp. n. and summarize existing data on its behavior in the context of social evolution. I also synonymize A. tungurahua Agnarsson 2006 with A. studiosus new synonymy. Finally, I define the subfamily Anelosiminae, containing Anelosimus and Kochiura Archer; Anelosiminae is sister to the diverse Theridiinae.
3705172|The species of the Aname maculata (Hogg) species-group (previously Chenistonia) are revised. The type species, Chenistonia maculata Hogg, and C. trevallynia Hickman are diagnosed. Five new species: A. caeruleomontana, A. earthwatchorum, A. hickmani, A. montana and A. tropica, are described. As most of these species possess a serrula, absent in many other species of Aname, the group is of phylogenetic significance. Because the group occurs in discontinuous montane rainforests from northern Queensland to Tasmania, it is also of biogeographic interest.
20798580|A new species, Santinezia noctiscansor, most similar to members of the S. festae group, is described from central Panama; this species is the only member of the genus that occurs in Central America. Our examinations of adults and nymphs collected from Cocl and Panam Provinces revealed that males are sexually mature as penultimate nymphs. The subadult strongly resembles the adult with respect to coloration, scutal outline, armature of femora IIIIV, and penis morphology, but differs in having fewer tarsomeres on each leg, a smaller body size (scutal length and width), and a much smaller tubercle on the ventral surface of coxa IV. Natural history observations are provided for specimens collected from the field site in Cocl Province.
4129819|In patchily distributed habitats, species potentially occur wherever conditions are suitable or show a restricted distribution, influenced by patch quality, geometry and configuration. If patch isolation appears to be the main determinant of the species' distribution then dispersal ability is supposed to be limited. Although only scarce literature is available, dispersal limitation seems to be an important factor in determining the spatial population structure in spiders. In this paper, we document on the spatial population structure of the rare wolf spider Alopecosa fabrilis, restricted to fragmented grey dunes along the Flemish coast (Belgium) and ask whether its distribution appears to be affected by aspects of patch configuration. Simultaneously, we investigated whether the local distribution of its main parasitoid, the spider wasp Arachnospila rufa (Hymenoptera, Pompilidae) was associated with its host. Our results indicate that A. fabrilis shows an aggregative population structure, which is determined by the distance to nearest occupied patch, indicating that spatially correlated habitat quality probably determine its occurrence. Although spider wasps are generally characterized as non-specialists, the almost complete covariation between its spatial occurrence and that of A. fabrilis, indicates that spider hunting wasps may, at least temporally and locally, show a restricted host-range. As a result, the presence of a rather generalist parasitoid is a good predictor for the presence of nocturnal and burrowing dune wolf spider.
25067882|Loxosceles spiders are of concern outside of the arachnological world because their bites can cause occasional necrotic skin lesions and/or systemic complications; these manifestations are known as loxoscelism. Once these spiders became well associated as medical entities, much notoriety was attained through the publication of medical case histories as well as tales of horrific wounds in the general literature. Although most Loxosceles spider bites are unremarkable, require only general supportive care, and often result in excellent outcome, they are an occasional source of severe dermonecrotic injury with long healing times and significant scarring. In rare cases of systemic loxoscelism, serious intravascular, nephrological and/or multi-organ damage can occur, sometimes resulting in death. However, also of concern is that loxoscelism is diagnosed by medical personnel or presumed by the general public in highly improbable scenarios preventing or delaying proper remedy, which can lead to deleterious outcome. Herein, Loxosceles spider biology and medical aspects are reviewed. In particular, an extensive discussion of the distribution of the brown recluse spider, L. reclusa Gertsch & Mulaik 1940, is presented along with life history characteristics, which relate to the medical aspects of the genus. Also presented are manifestations and epidemiology of loxoscelism, misdiagnoses of bites by the medical community, alternative diagnoses confused with recluse spider bites and a discussion of the psychological basis for the proliferation of the myth of loxoscelism by both the general public and the medical community. North and South American species are reviewed because this is where the genus predominates and is the region where the most pertinent research has originated.
3705655| Se describen la hembra de Porrimosa harknessi (Chamberlin) y el macho de Porrimosa castanea (Mello-Leito) hasta ahora desconocidos. Se da una clave de identificacin nueva y se ampla la distribucin de las tres especies seguras de Porrimosa. /// The female of Porrimosa harknessi (Chamberlin) and the male of Porrimosa castanea (Mello-Leita) still unknown are described. A key to identification and a wider distribution of the three good species of Porrimosa are given. 
20788610|Many studies of the elegant architectures of orb webs are conducted in controlled laboratory environments that remove environmental variability. The degree to which spider behavior in these circumstances resembles that of spiders in the wild is largely unknown. We compared web architecture and silk investment of furrowed orb weavers Larinioides cornutus (Clerck 1757) building webs in laboratory cages and spinning webs on fences in the field and found significant differences. The volume of major ampullate silk in radii was 53% lower in cage webs, primarily because the silk was 50% thinner, but also because spiders tended to spin 14% fewer radii than in fence webs. Cage spiders also invested about 40% less flagelliform silk and aggregate glue in the capture spiral, although the difference was not statistically significant, a trend primarily driven by a decrease in the length of the glue-coated capture spiral. These patterns were consistent with spiders reducing silk investment when building at new web sites while they assessed insect abundance. Differences in the type of substrate for web attachment, amount of available space, and condition may also have influenced web architecture. Cage webs were more symmetrical than fence webs, which displayed an unusual horizontal asymmetry that may have maximized their capture areas within the constraints of the available fence-railing attachment sites. Our findings suggest using caution when generalizing the properties of laboratory-spun webs to more natural conditions. More importantly, they demonstrate that orb spiders actively modify their behaviors when spinning webs under different conditions.
23610246|The harvestman genus Philora Goodnight & Goodnight 1954 and the type species P. tuxtlae are redescribed, and Philora quetzalzin new species is described. The genus is newly assigned to the family Stygnopsidae Srensen 1932 based on external morphology and male genitalia, which are described herein for the first time. The genus is compared with the morphologically similar genera Paramitraceras Pickard-Cambridge 1905, Sbordonia ilhav 1977, and Troglostygnopsis ilhav 1974 sensu stricto. Philora is unique within the family in having a scutum completum. The presence of a scutum completum in Philora and others laniatoreans is discussed. The male genitalia of the genera Paramitraceras, Philora, Troglostygnopsis and presumably the genus Sbordonia, are very similar and share a morphological pattern described here as the Paramitraceras-pattern.
3704955|The courtship and mating behavior of the black widow spider, Latrodectus hesperus Chamberlin and Ivie, were studied to determine stimuli responsible for mate location and courtship initiation in this species. We observed new courtship patterns which included a vigorous display performed by females, "push-ups" executed by both sexes, and cryptic abdominal vibrations produced by males immediately upon contact with female webs. Males initiated courtship when they contacted unoccupied conspecific female webs, but did not respond when placed on other male webs. Male L. hesperus also initiated courtship behavior on unoccupied female webs of another species, Latrodectus mactans (Fabricius). Female L. hesperus were stimulated by contact with conspecific male webs, but not other female webs. Scanning electron microscopy revealed what are presumed to be chemoreceptive hairs on the tarsi and pedipalps of males and females. We conclude that male and female L. hesperus produce sexually specific, complementary contact pheromones which are incorporated into their silk. These substances apparently function in mate location, sex identification, and courtship for this species, but not as an isolating mechanism between L. hesperus and L. mactans.
3705651| The burrow spatial distribution pattern in a population of Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris from central Spain was studied. The developmental stage of the individual occupying the burrow, as well as the burrow spatial coordinates were measured during the spring and summer. A three-dimensional distribution pattern was obtained and Morisita, mean-crowding and variance-mean coefficient indices of burrow density were calculated. The burrow distribution pattern changed throughout the study period. Subadult burrow location shows a tendency toward instability whereas location stability of adult individuals is greater. In both cases there is a tendency towards clumping, which is lesser in the case of adult animals: if mean distances among burrows are compared between clumps, a tendency towards regularity results in the latter case. The observed distribution pattern might be a result of interspecific competition leading to a territorial system, with adult females constituting the structural support of the population. /// Hemos estudiado el patrn de distribucin espacial de una poblacin de Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris del centro de Espaa. Durante la primavera y el verano, se midieron las coordenadas espaciales de los nidos, as como la fase de desarrollo del individuo que lo ocupaba. A partir de los datos, se ha reconstruido el patrn tridimensional de distribucin, y se han calculado los ndices de Morisita y mean-crowding, as como el cociente varianza-media de la densidad de los nidos. A lo largo del perodo de estudio se observa una modificacin en el patrn de distribucin de los nidos. Los nidos de los individuos subadultos muestran una tendencia a la inestabilidad, mientras que los ocupados por individuos adultos tienen una localizacin ms estable. En ambos casos, se observa una tendencia a la agregacin, que es menos marcada para los individuos adultos: si se comparan las distancias medias entre los nidos dentro de cada agregado, aparece una tendencia a la regularidad en el ltimo caso. El patrn de distribucin espacial podra ser el resultado de la competicin intraespecfica, que determinara un sistema de tipo territorial, siendo las hembras adultas el soporte estructural de la poblacin. 
24365276|Molecular genetic tools have been a boon to arachnologists for decades and used to study many unique aspects of arachnid biology including genomics, phylogenetics, population genetics, and biogeography. These tools have evolved over time and now provide myriad methods for exploring evolutionary questions. Early tools, while still useful under the proper circumstances, are giving way to a new generation of DNA sequencing technologies. These new platforms yield impressive amounts of data at a fraction of the cost of traditional techniques. Herein, we discuss the history and future of molecular evolutionary arachnology in terms of available genetic/genomic tools and their potential applications, strengths, weaknesses, and relative costs. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) platforms are varied in their methods and potential uses, making high-throughput sequencing studies focusing on a wide array of questions tractable. To date, relatively few studies have employed NGS technologies using arachnids, but many could benefit from using them. Because no model species exist within the class Arachnida, we have a limited understanding of arachnid genomics. With the ever-advancing nature of sequencing technologies and bioinformatics, arachnologists can relatively easily implement NGS studies to bridge the gaps in our understanding and open avenues for deeper and more powerful experiments. To this end, we discuss examples of applications of NGS technologies focusing on arachnid taxa. Despite the allure of acquiring massive quantities of sequence data, we should recognize the limitations of existing NGS technologies and not forsake pre-NGS methods when these technologies could adequately address our questions.
25067834|Species of Polybetes are known exclusively from South America. Currently there are 13 described species, 9 occurring in Argentina. Cytogenetic studies in spiders are scarce; the cytogenetics of only about 1% of nearly 39,500 described species are known. Within the Sparassidae, 38 species out of 1,009 (< 4%) have been cytogenetically analyzed; the most frequent chromosome number is 2n = 43/46 (male/female), n = 20 +
3706233|Three new species of the genus Charon Karsch 1879 are described: Charon oenpelli from humid sandstone caves in the Northern Territory, Charon trebax from an epigean locality in north Queensland, and C. gervaisi from Christmas Island, an Australian territory situated in the Indian Ocean. The status of species formerly attributed to the genus and currently synonymized with the type species C. grayi is discussed.
4129883| Two new genera in the spider family Trechaleidae, Trechaleoides and Paratrechalea, are described. The females of the two known species of Trechaleoides, T keyserlingi (F.O.P.-Cambridge) (type species) and T biocellata (Mello-Leito) are redescribed and their respective males are described for the first time; both are transferred from Trechalea. Two additional previously described species, also both transferred from Trechalea, are herein placed in the genus Paratrechalea are redescribed from their types, i.e., the female of P. ornata (Mello-Leito) (type species) and male of P. wygodzinskyi (Soares & Camargo). The male of P. ornata is described for the first time. Four new species of Paratrechalea, P. longigaster, P. galianoae, and P. azul from females, and P. saopaulo from males and females are described. The immature specimen historically regarded as the holotype of Trechalea longitarsis (C.L. Koch) and regarded as a mistaken identity, is an unidentified species of Trechaleoides. The female holotype of Trechalea limai Mello-Leito is confirmed to be lost but is considered to be a member of the genus Paratrechalea based on a study of the original description. 
3705196|New troglobitic harvestmen are described from lava caves in the states of Washington and Idaho. They include species of Travuniidae: Speleonychia sengeri, new genus and species; Erebomastridae: Speleomaster lexi, new genus and species; Speleomaster pecki, new species. The occurrence of a species of Triaenonychidae is recorded. These species are highly modified for darkness and are unrelated to surface species. The family Travuniidae is represented for the first time in the New World. Morphological, ecological and phylogenetic considerations are discussed.
4129807|In this note, I describe courtship and mating behavior of the wolf spider Rabidosa santrita (Chamberlin & Ivie 1942) from riparian habitat in southeastern Arizona. Males responded to substrateborne cues of females with several distinctive behaviors: they walked slowly, following female web draglines; with their palps, they plucked the dragline and/or tapped on the substrate near the dragline; and they performed raises and extensions of legs I, "tapping" the tips while in midair. On substrate previously occupied by another male, these behaviors were either not done or males performed them more rapidly, and for a shorter duration. Males initiated courtship, which consisted of taps or short strokes of legs I of the female by the male's legs I. Copulation was similar to that described for other species of Rabidosa. Males inserted one palp at a time, performed one hematodochal expansion per insertion, moistened the palp following insertion, and alternated palps for each insertion. Copulation lasted from 35 min to >1 h.
41804568|When host organisms mount an immune response, they incur energetic costs. Theory predicts that these costs result in trade-offs between investment in life history traits (such as growth and reproduction) and investment in immune response. Recent empirical work investigating whether immune ability is impaired during sexual activity in invertebrates does not uniformly support this prediction. Here, we use lytic activity to test for trade-offs between immune ability and reproductive events in three experiments with the pholcid spider Physocyclus dugesi (Simon 1893). First, we test whether males or females have their immune response negatively affected after mating; second, we assess whether oviposition behavior affects immune response; and third, we investigate whether sexual aggression by females affects immune response. We compare reproductive and non-reproductive spiders' immune response. Our results suggest a down-regulation of immune response following mating, oviposition, and aggression. This supports the notion that immunocompetence is competing for a resource with sexual activities. We discuss reasons why such costs arise in P. dugesi.
3705455|Mobility and dispersal of the solitary-living spider, Stegodyphus africanus Blackwall 1866, under laboratory conditions are described for the period from four months after hatching until death. Cohabitation with females of the social-living S. dumicola Pocock 1898, within the same experimental setup, reveals interspecific tolerance between both species.
3705734|Stereotypic agonistic behavior was observed in induced encounters involving female bowl-and-doily spiders (Frontinella pyramitela: Linyphiidae) at natural web sites. Relative size (mass) of opponents, resident status, and web size were examined as possible assessment parameters influencing interaction outcome. Web owners won significantly more interactions than did intruders, regardless of the relative sizes of the spiders. The area of the sheet-web had no relationship to interaction outcome.
4489052|Pitfall traps are widely used to capture arthropods. The type of fluid employed in the traps can affect size and condition of the catch. Direct comparisons of different fluids allow entomologists to avoid suboptimal solutions, and facilitate comparisons between studies using different fluids. We compared capture efficiency and preservation attributes between five fluids in a field experiment with special respect to spiders (Araneae) and ground beetles (Coleoptera, Carabidae). Catches in pure water, ethanol-water and ethanol-glycerin were less well preserved than in brine or ethylene glycol-water. Brine and ethanol-glycerin showed low capture efficiencies, presumably because their high specific density made arthropods float and thereby facilitated escape. Only the mixture of ethylene glycol and water combined good preservation attributes with high capture efficiency, and therefore represented the best solution.
25434300|The laterally positioned eyes of stylocellid mite harvestmen are simple ocelli composed of a uniconvex cuticular lens, a lentigen layer, a retina, and a layer of pigment cells. Basal laminae separate the lentigen layer (preretinal membrane) and the pigment layer (postretinal membrane) from the retina. The retina is composed of retinular cells and glial cells. The optic nerve comprises mostly afferent axons formed by the retinular cells, which are accompanied by glial cells. Likely there are also few efferent axons. The retinular cells are characterized by their peculiar nuclei, numerous granules and indications of high membrane turnover. A prominent central region of the eye shows numerous, but poorly ordered interdigitations of long microvilli-like processes presenting a poorly developed closed rhabdom. A smaller region with microvilli forming a rather disordered, open rhabdom is located opposite to the lens. The retina is proximally and laterally surrounded by pigment cells containing, in addition to the usual dense granules, some crystalline inclusions, which may act as a tapetum. Hence, the retina seems to be composed of a proximal part and a distal part with two differently organized simple rhabdoms. The eyes of Stylocellus thus show basically the same organization as the median (primary) eyes of other Opiliones and are likely laterally displaced median (primary) eyes. The occurrence of these primary eyes in Stylocellidae (and Pettalidae) strengthens the idea that the presence of median eyes is thus a plesiomorphic character of these cyphophthalmid harvestmen.
3706121|The costs and benefits of group living vary with group size, and competition for resources increases with increasing group size. In the social spider, Stegodyphus mimosarum, individuals attain smaller sizes, and survival is lower in larger colonies. In this study we assess whether group size influences the decision to leave a colony-or disperse. Four colony sizes (8, 16, 32 and 64) of S. mimosarum were set up under a proportional feeding regime in a laboratory experiment. We expected more spiders to leave large colonies due to intra-group competition. However, there was no significant increase in the number of spiders leaving with increasing group size. Significantly more spiders left a colony during spring and when spiders were larger (at a more advanced stages of development). Variability in access to resources does not promote dispersal, but season and spider size does influence dispersal.
3705493|During the mid-autumn of 1993 and spring through summer of 1994, I sampled tallgrass prairie in northeastern Kansas to determine habitat use, distribution and population dynamics of the ant-like jumping spider Sarinda hentzi (Banks). This species was not detected in any censused area of tallgrass prairie until early October 1993, when large juvenile specimens were found in a density of
25434293|We describe the mating behavior in the spermatheca-lacking theraphosid species Sickius longibulbi Soares & Camargo 1948. The behavior in captivity of nine pairs of S. longibulbi was videotaped and analyzed. The mating of this species presented an uncommon theraphosid pattern. There is little in the way of overt courtship by the male, the primary behavior seen being the male's use of legs I and II to touch the female's first pairs of legs and her chelicerae. Sometimes the male clasped one of the female's first pairs of legs, bringing her close to him. While the female raised her body, the male clasped her fangs and held her tightly with his legs III wrapped around her prosoma. The male seemed to try to knock the female down, pushing her entire body until she lay on her dorsum. In this phase we observed the male biting the female on the sternum or on the leg joints. When the female fell, the male attempted to position himself at an angle of 90 from the female. These movements appear to demand a lot of energy, particularly because the female is not passive during the mating. Our findings suggest that copulating in this position is, for the male, more successful than adopting other positions because it allows his extremely long palpal bulbs to deposit more sperm in the female oviduct where - since she lacks spermathecae - she retains the sperm. We suggest that the further he reaches into the oviduct, the greater the chance that he will fertilize the female's eggs.
3705043| Wedoquella new genus is described. Closest to Phiale by its general appearance and quetotaxy, it differs in having two retrolateral apophyses on the palpal tibia and in the structure of the epigynum. Two new species from Argentina, W. denticulata (type-species of the genus) and W. macrothecata are described based on specimens reared in the laboratory. Evophrys (?) punctata Tullgren, 1905 from Bolivia is transferred to Wedoquella, the male is described for the first time and the species is newly recorded from Argentina. Pensacola variegata Mello-Leito, 1939 is newly synonymyzed with W. punctata. Females of W. denticulata and W. punctata have two color variants. /// Se describe Wedoquella nuevo gnero. Prximo a Phiale por su aspecto general y quetotaxia, se diferencia por tener dos apfisis retrolaterales en la tibia del palpo y por la estructura del epigino. Se describen dos nuevas especies de la Argentina, W. denticulata (especie tipo del gnero) y W. macrothecata, basndose en especmenes criados en el laboratorio. Evophrys (?) punctata Tullgren, 1905 es transferida a Wedoquella, el macho se describe por primera vez y se la cita como nueva para la Argentina. Pensacola variegata Mello-Leito, 1939 se sinonimiza con W. punctata. Las hembras de dos de las especies, W. denticulata y W. punctata tienen dos variantes de color. 
3706288|Two new species of Banksula are described. Banksula incredula enlarges the concept of the genus and is assigned to a new species group which is the likely sister group to the other Banksula. The species is unique in numerous morphological features, being the largest species in the genus, the first non-cavernicolous species, and occurring in the Coast Ranges of California, rather than in the Sierra Nevada foothills. The second new species, B. tutankhamen, is a typical member of the californica group but with more pronounced troglomorphy. Clinal variation is documented for B. grahami Briggs 1974, with B. elliotti Briggs & Ubick 1981, now placed as its junior synonym, representing the northern and most troglomorphic populations.
3706176|In Denmark, two seemingly distinct size-classes, 3
41804566|Spiders construct a wide variety of silk structures, ranging from draglines to prey capture webs. Spider silks rank among the toughest materials known to science, and these material properties are critical for understanding how silk structures, such as webs, function. However, the mechanics of spider silk are often ignored in the study of webs. This review aims to show how the material properties of silk proteins, the structural properties of silk threads, and the architectures of webs ultimately interact to determine the function of orb webs during prey capture. I first provide a brief introduction into spider silk and how to characterize its material and structural properties. I then examine the function of draglines as "lifelines" to provide a well-understood example of the interaction of material and structural properties in silk function. Next, I examine how orb webs function in prey capture by first intercepting insects, then stopping their kinetic energy of flight, and finally retaining the insects long enough to be subdued by spiders. I show how variation in the material and structural properties of silk acts synergistically to facilitate the stopping and retention potentials of orb webs, and why this can occur in opposition to how orb webs intercept prey. Finally, I summarize why information on the material properties and structures of silk threads needs to be better incorporated into future investigations of spider webs in general.
3705457|Experiments with Lycosa malitiosa Tullgren 1905 were carried out to determine: a) whether males that had never performed sperm induction can copulate, b) whether these males perform an altered copulatory pattern, and c) whether the stored sperm from a single sperm induction is enough to inseminate two consecutive females. A group of males whose genital pores were sealed with melted paraffin immediately after molting copulated once; then, the seal was removed, and later these males copulated again. A second group of males was untreated prior to their first copulation but then immediately had their genital pores sealed and subsequently were allowed to copulate again. Two other groups of males were used as controls: their genital pores were "pseudosealed" by having paraffin placed beside them. All females were virgins, and the number of progeny produced by each was recorded. Males that never had sperm in their palps maintained the basic species-specific copulatory pattern, although they showed several minor copulatory alterations. The second copulation of males prevented from recharging their palps resulted in the production of abundant progeny. Matings of older males (second copulations) resulted in a similar number of spiderlings as that of younger males (first copulations).
23070792|Spiders are important predators in terrestrial ecosystems, and several spider species have been shown to use chemical cues to locate prey. However, the extent to which chemical prey cues actually drive habitat use by individual spiders remains unclear. In this study we tested whether Western black widow spiders, Latrodectus hesperus Chamberlin & Ivie 1935, can detect chemical cues left by potential prey items and adjust their habitat preferences (i.e., web building behavior and refuge choice) accordingly. Using outdoor enclosures, we gave mature female widows the choice of microhabitat (rocks) previously housing cricket prey versus control rocks lacking cricket cues. Our results showed a significant preference by black widows to build their webs in areas that contain chemical prey cues. We discuss the implications of this finding for our understanding of urban black widow habitat use, population dynamics, and the potential for urban infestations.
3705671|Spiders of 10 families, 16 genera, and at least 21 species were collected from foliage of Picea rubens Sarg. in northern Maine. Foliage samples were collected from tree crowns using an extendable pole pruner. Of 157 individuals, erigonids were numerically dominant (36%), followed by philodromids (18%) and salticids (15%). Mean spider
24365279|We compared the structure of spider assemblages between the upper and lower canopy layers, and between the canopy and forest floor, in plantations of evergreen cedar (Cryptomeria japonica) and deciduous larch (Larix kaempferi). The estimated number of species was similar between the upper and lower canopy layers (49.0 vs 45.1) in C. japonica, but was noticeably smaller in the upper canopy layer (11.3) than in the lower layer (36.9) in L. kaempferi. Arboreal spider assemblages in the canopy differed significantly between the upper and lower layers in both C. japonica and L. kaempferi stands, based on an abundance-based measure. However, based on an incidence-based measure, they only differed significantly between layers in the L. kaempferi stand. The spider assemblages also differed distinctly between the canopy and the forest floor in both stands. Wandering spiders and orb-web builders were dominant in the canopy, while space-web builders dominated the forest floor in the C. japonica stand. In the L. kaempferi stand, wandering spiders dominated both the canopy and the forest floor. Our results suggested that spider assemblages in conifer plantations were distinctive among strata because of differences in such factors as resource quality (i.e., living or dead foliage) and association with adjacent layers along the vertical gradient of the forests.
4129854|Burrows of an unidentified species of Ancylotrypa Simon from the floodplain of the Nyl River in Limpopo Province, South Africa are described. In addition to constructing a thin trapdoor, members of this species construct a hard, spherical plug or marble from soil particles held together with silk. Burrow structure, the plug and associated behavior are described for the first time.
40233830|The harvestmen Caddo agilis Banks 1892 and C. pepperella Shear 1975 (Caddidae, Caddinae) share a disjunct distribution in eastern Asia and eastern North America that has been attributed to either recent (Pleistocene) evolution of a C. pepperella morph from C. agilis in each region or to a pre-glacial separation within each of two established species. The present study used 2,130-base sequences from two nuclear protein-coding genes ( EF1, Pol II) to test the phylogenetic predictions of both hypotheses using representatives from the two Caddo species from both regions and two acropsopilionine outgroup species. The results supported the hypothesis that the two Caddo species were distinct prior to their respective biogeographic disjunctions; C. agilis and C. pepperella were each recovered as monophyletic and each appears to have undergone separation into Asian and North American groups.
25067872|The nine species of Sassacus Peckham & Peckham 1895 known from Canada, the United States, and Mexico are described. The genus as defined here includes: Sassacus papenhoei Peckham & Peckham 1895, Sassacus paiutus (Gertsch 1934), Sassacus samalayucae Richman (new species), Sassacus cyaneus (Hentz 1846), Sassacus alboguttatus (F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1901), Sassacus vitis (Cockerell 1894), Sassacus aztecus Richman (new species), Sassacus barbipes Peckham & Peckham 1888, and Sassacus lirios Richman (new species). Agassa Simon 1901 is synonymized with Sassacus. "Typical" (beetle-like) and more "normal" (spider-like) Sassacus range from Southern British Columbia south into Central America. The Sassacus arcuatus group, which is much more extensive in South America, possibly belongs to its own genus and is not treated beyond one species described here from Mexico.
25067839|The monotypic genus Hippasella Mello-Leito 1944 is revised, and its type-species H. nitida Mello-Leito 1944 is considered a junior synonym of Tarentual guaquiensis Strand 1908, from Bolivia. Hippasella guaquiensis (Strand) comb. nov. is redescribed and the female genitalia are illustrated for the first time. This species now is recorded from Peru, Bolivia and Argentina. It appears to prefer vegetation near water. /// O gnero monotpico Hippasella Mello-Leito 1944  revisado e sua espcie-tipo H. nitida Mello-Leito 1944  considerada um sinnimo jnior de Tarentula guaquiensis Strand 1908, da Bolvia. Hippasella guaquiensis (Strand) comb. nov.  redescrita e a genitlia da fmea  ilustrada pela primeira vez. Esta espcie  agora conhecida do Peru, Bolvia e da Argentina, onde parece preferir a vegetao prxima  gua.
3706260|Argyroneta aquatica (Clerck 1757) should be included in Cybaeidae Simon 1898. There is no justification for a monotypic family Argyronetidae; differences from other cybaeids are either specializations for aquatic life or derived with respect to other cybaeids. The features of a recently described Eocene spider, Vectaraneus yulei Selden 2001 are discussed, which place it together with Argyroneta in subfamily Argyronetinae Thorell 1870 of Cybaeidae. Fossil spiders intermediate between Vectaraneus and Argyroneta are reviewed.
3705592| Caecoa ilhav 1973 is synonymized under Guerrobunus Goodnight & Goodnight 1945. The third species of Guerrobunus is named. A taxonomic key to the species of Guerrobunus is provided. Two males and one female of the new species Guerrobunus vallensis are illustrated and described from a cave in Valle de Bravo, State of Mxico, Mxico. /// Caecoa ilhav 1973 se sinonimiza con Guerrobunus Goodnight & Goodnight 1945. Se le da nombre a la tercera especie de Guerrobunus. Se presenta una clave taxonmica para las especies del gnero. Se describen dos machos y una hembra de Guerrobunus vallensis nueva especie de una cueva de Valle de Bravo, Estado de Mxico, Mxico. 
25434307|Spider species respond differently to variations in habitat structure; thus, differences in habitat structure may be responsible for variations in species composition of assemblages. However, little information exists on patterns of variation in spider species composition in tropical rainforests. We collected spiders and measured five different microhabitat characteristics in 20 sampling plots distributed among secondary and primary forest patches in an Atlantic rainforest, Brazil. Using multivariate analysis (non-metric multidimensional scaling - NMS), we checked for the existence of non-random patterns in the species composition of aerial (AG) and ground (GG) macroguilds, respectively. We also explored the relationships of those patterns with gradients in microhabitat characteristics and the influence of forest type (primary or secondary forest). We detected non-random patterns in spider species composition unrelated to microhabitat characteristics but differing between primary and secondary forest plots for both macroguilds. We discuss possible implications for studies of spider species composition and spider conservation in tropical forests. /// As espcies de aranhas respondem de modo distinto a variaes na estrutura do habitat. Por esta razo, diferenas nestas estruturas poderiam ser responsveis pela variao na composio de espcies das assemblias. Contudo, existe pouca informao a respeito de padres na variao da composio das assemblias de aranhas em floresta tropical. Neste trabalho, foram coletadas aranhas e mensuradas cinco diferentes caractersticas de micro-hbitat em 20 unidades amostrais distribudas em reas de floresta primria e secundria de floresta tropical Atlntica. Utilizando anlises multivariadas (ordenao multidimensional no mtrica - NMS), procurou-se a existncia de padres no aleatrios na composio de espcies de aranhas de macroguildas areas (AG) e de cho (GG), respectivamente. Investigou-se tambm, a relao destes padres com gradientes nas caractersticas de micro-hbitat e a influncia do tipo de floresta (floresta primria e secundria). Foram detectados padres no aleatrios na composio de espcies de aranhas, no relacionados s caractersticas de micro-hbitat, todavia influenciados pelo tipo de floresta. Discute-se, portanto, a possvel problemtica de estudos que abordam composio e conservao de espcies de aranhas em florestas tropicais.
25067815|Brachistosternus (Leptosternus) aconcagua new species, from the Chilean central Andes, is described. Brachistosternus (L.) chilensis Kraepelin 1911 is redescribed. Both species are related to other Andean species of the genus and with other species from central and northern Chile. /// Se describe a Brachistosternus (Leptosternus) aconcagua nueva especie de los Andes centrales Chilenos. Se redescribe a Brachistosternus (L.) chilensis Kraepelin 1911. Ambas especies se encuentran relacionadas con las especies andinas del gnero y con algunas especies del centro y norte de Chile.
3705995|The Balkan Peninsula is home to 1409 species, included in 337 genera and 47 families. This number was established after a critical review of the existing literature and taxonomic revision of some available collections containing spider material from this region. The highest number of species is recorded for the territories of Bulgaria (775), Greece (642), Croatia (615) and Serbia (508). This biodiversity depends not only on the size of the regions, but also on the degree of exploration by researchers. The territories of Albania, Turkey, Montenegro and Bosnia are less well investigated. According to their current distribution, the established 1409 species can be classified into 24 zoogeograpical categories, grouped into four complexes (widely distributed, European, Balkan endemics, and Mediterranean). The largest number of species belongs to the widely distributed complex, but the most characteristic are the Balkan endemics. Their established number (379 species) is high and reflects the local character of the fauna. This phenomenon can be attributed to the relative isolation of the mountains compared with the lowlands, in the context of paleo-environmental changes since Pliocene. Their high percentage (26.9%) suggests an important process of autochtonous speciation. Thus, the Balkan Peninsula can be considered as a main center of speciation for the European araneofauna.
3705265|A total of 83 species of spiders were collected from the shrub, herb and ground strata of a sagebrush steppe in northern Utah. Dominant families (Thomisidae, Philodromidae, Salticidae) and, in some cases, genera (Misumenops, Philodromus) or species [Sassacus papenhoei (Peckham and Peckham)] were similar to those found in other studies of shrub-dominated areas. Among the spiders of this community, ambushing and wandering were more common foraging strategies than was webspinning. Habitat separation in sagebrush steppe spiders was more vertical than horizontal. Shrub and herb spider species assemblage differed sharply from the ground spider species assemblage, less so from one another. Differences in vegetation density, diversity and size among four study plots correlated positively with spider abundance and diversity, but resulted in less difference among spider assemblages. Temporal patterns of spider abundance differed among strata. Seasonal patterns showed evidence of being influenced by climate and migration of spiders between strata. Diel activity patterns were examined only for spiders of shrub and herb strata. Spider activity in the herb stratum was strongly influenced by light intensity, temperature and relative humidity. This was not as clear in shrubs.
3705992|Pseudoscorpions (Chthonius ischnocheles (Hermann) and C. orthodactylus (Leach) sensu strictus) were collected using a D-Vac over two-years from 60 field margins at Oxford University farm at Wytham, U.K. Old and new grassland margins were subjected to six different treatments involving spraying, non-intervention and four different cutting intensities. Significantly more pseudoscorpions were found in old compared to new margins, suggesting they may be attracted to litter build-up over time. Pseudoscorpion numbers were reduced on treatments subjected to two cuts annually, particularly when a summer cut was included, although this effect was ameliorated when the cuttings were left. However, pseudoscorpions were most numerous on treatments which involved no management because of the increase in leaf litter which may replicate a woodland environment. Adjacent hedges appear to buffer the effects of management: margins with adjacent hedges (rather than ditches or tracks) having more individuals. In contrast to results for other invertebrate groups, sowing wildflower seed did not significantly increase the abundance of pseudoscorpions. The effect of different treatments on pseudoscorpion numbers demonstrates that they are useful indicators of the effects of management practice.
3705204|Orientation of the body with respect to gravity by Nephila clavipes (L.) spiderlings were scored from the beginning of emergence from the egg sac until the onset of dispersion in the laboratory. Most second instar spiderlings adopted the dorsal-down attitude by the end of the seventh day. A change from dorsal-down to anterior (face)-down attitude-that of spiders living in geometric webs-was apparent on the eighth day, by third instar animals after they had completed the second molt and returned to the communal web. The anterior-down attitude predominated by the time dispersion began.
23610241|Little is known about the climbing habits of scorpions on plants, despite the interest in this behavior for understanding the connection between above- and below-ground food webs in deserts and to uncover the importance of prey availability and predator avoidance on foraging and habitat selection. Here we report on the foraging of Buthus cf. occitanus (Amoreux 1789) on shrub branches in an arid area in southeastern Spain. Black-light censuses were carried out within six 50 m  4 m areas in one full and two new moon nights during September and October 2011. Shrub availability was estimated by counting shrubs in 50 m  1 m areas within each census area. Results showed that nearly 40% of the scorpions, mostly small, 1020-mm-long individuals, were found foraging on both inner and outer shrub branches up to 80 cm in height. The probability of finding a scorpion on a shrub was inversely related to scorpion size. Selectivity analysis showed that scorpions selected four shrub species, a result that may be related to prey size and availability. Foraging of B. occitanus on shrubs may be favored if this behavior not only allows access to shrub-inhabiting prey, but also reduces predation risk.
3705039|Frontinella pyramitela, the Bowl and Doily Spider, and Neriene radiata, the Filmy Dome Spider, were the two most common linyphiid species in a study of sheetweb weaving and orbweaving guilds in central New Jersey. They differ in size when adult and in the relationship between prey size and spider size, but not in the absolute size of prey taken nor in their tendency to move from websites. Competition for websites is a negligible factor in the system, although the populations may be food-limited. These results are compared with studies by Wise (1975) and Riechert (1976, 1978, 1981).
3705672| Coniferous-habitat associations were determined for 16 species of adult spiders collected from red spruce foliage in northern Maine. Most of the spiders have been found on three or more (range one to 15) conifer species. Spider-conifer habitats were positively correlated (r = 0.96) with geographic states and provinces. Mean conifer-habitat associations did not differ between web spinner and hunter species. Significantly more species of spiders from red spruce foliage were associated with northern conifers than with western conifers, but not with southern conifers. Comparison of the red spruce fauna with 16 selected spider-tree faunal studies showed that 1) Srensen's similarity quotients (QS) were significantly greater for genera than for species, and 2) mean species QS values were significantly greater for northern than for southern but not for western conifers. The spider fauna on red spruce is closely allied with that on other northern conifers; however, none of the 16 spider species are restricted to conifers. 
3706189| Goniosoma spelaeum (Mello-Leito 1932) hide in caves during the day and leave periodically after dusk to forage, moving mainly vertically (towards the canopy). When stopped, individuals of all developmental stages often showed the behavior of cleaning appendages. To hunt, some specimens remained for several hours in a static posture with all legs spread out, radially disposed. In a less frequently used hunting position the body is used as a "web" i.e., the animal is supported by two opposing leaves, leaving its body between them, while legs II are kept free in the air and moving constantly. The first position possibly increasing the chance of meeting a possible prey by creating a larger area of contact, and the second especially by intercepting flying insects. Food items observed being taken in nature include: noctuid lepidopterans, tipulid and nematoceran dipterans, ascalaphid neuropterans, and isopods. They also infrequently use their chelicerae to chew on the rim of leaves and/or pieces of moss, with no ingestion of plant matter. Therefore, this behavior is probably related to drinking. 
3706383|We sampled assemblages of ground-dwelling spiders with pitfall traps in six terrestrial habitats representing a successional gradient in southwestern Virginia, during the summer of 2002. Approximately half of the 50 species trapped were habitat specialists with low abundance, found at only one of the sites, which is qualitatively consistent with the literature. Only four species, Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz 1844), Pirata insularis (Emerton 1885) Pirata aspirans (Chamberlain 1904) and Neoantistea magna (Keyserling 1887) were found at as many as four sites. A few species that were found in more than one study from disparate geographical communities, such as Trochosa terricola (Thorell 1856) tended also to be relatively abundant habitat generalists. In general, the majority of spider species found in studies such as ours that examined multiple sites were habitat specialists and had low abundance. For our sample sites, there was no relationship between any measure of spider diversity (S, H', J') and successional age. Our results, and those of most other published studies, are consistent with the hypothesis that spider assemblages do not undergo succession and except for a few very common generalist species the composition of these communities is unpredictable, and may depend more on stochastic colonization and specific resource requirements of specialists following immigration than on any predictable association with successional parameters.
20788631|The female of Sarotesius melanognathus Pocock 1898 is described for the first time. According to characters of the copulatory organs of both male and female as well as to cheliceral dentition the monotypic genus is placed in the Palystinae Simon 1897.
3705190|A review of the eyed schizomids is presented: Trithyreus cambridgei Thorell is considered a species inquirenda; Schizomus bagnallii (Jackson) is redescribed; and Schizomus biocellatus, new species, is described.
41804567|Flies of the family Acroceridae are specialized internal parasitoids of spiders. We infected hatchlings of wolf spiders Pardosa prativaga (L. Koch 1870) (Araneae: Lycosidae) with larvae of Acrocera orbiculus (Fabricius 1787); most hosts were infected by a single larva, but others endured multiple infections of up to eight larvae. The infected spiders and a group of uninfected control spiders were raised in the laboratory for up to 23 weeks. We found that most (81%) spiders infected by only one larva were able to suppress the infection, whereas most multiple infections (73%) were "successful" (i.e., a larva emerged or was recovered by dissection, perhaps from a prematurely dead spider). Infected spiders had their survival reduced in proportion to the infection load, but the reduction was not significant if the infection was suppressed. Infected spiders had higher growth rates than uninfected, and growth stimulation was proportional to the number of initially infecting larvae and independent of whether the larva was suppressed or not. Due to these patterns, we suggest that growth enhancement results from the spider's mobilization of extra resources for combating the infection rather than parasitoid manipulation of spider growth. Spiders with multiple infections took longer to mature than uninfected spiders, and the pattern of instar durations was changed compared with that of control and singly infected spiders. As multiple infections were important for the parasitoid's success, we suggest that the parasitoid fly's habit of laying eggs in large clumps may be an adaptation to increase the chance of success via multiple infections.
3706047|Many pisaurid spiders inhabit the edges of bodies of fresh water and actively propel themselves across the water surface using both rowing and galloping gaits. They also sail across the water, taking advantage of the wind and their nearly frictionless interaction with the water surface. The physical interactions of Dolomedes triton (Walckenaer 1837) (Araneae, Pisauridae) with moving air, in a wind tunnel in which the floor was water, formed the core of the present investigation. Spiders in an elevated (sailing) posture were subjected to greater drag forces attributable to air motion than were spiders in a prone (non-sailing) posture and therefore were transported substantially faster than prone spiders. In the context of transport velocity, the benefit of adopting an elevated posture was substantially greater (relative to mass) for small spiders than for large ones, although even under the relatively steady flow conditions of the wind tunnel the velocities of the small spiders in the elevated posture were more variable than either small prone spiders or large spiders. The efficacy of adopting an elevated posture was a consequence of the steep air velocity gradient that existed above the surface of the water in the wind tunnel and that also exists above any pond over which the air is moving. Taken as a whole, the data indicate that sailing is a remarkably cheap form of transportation for Dolomedes, but that, at least at the edges of large bodies of water, it involves risks because it is directionally uncontrolled.
20788630|A new species of the medically important recluse spider genus Loxosceles Heinecken & Lowe 1832 is described from the State of Bahia, Brazil. The species occurs between rocks and crevices, as well as in and around man-made structures. The new species belongs to the gaucho group, as evidenced by the spermathecal shape and color pattern. The presence of a long male palpal tibia is unusual in the gaucho group; thus, the inclusion of the new species in this group is discussed.
40233824|Two new species of the spider genus Ochyrocera Simon 1891 are described from Mexico. Ochyrocera juquila new species was collected under moist rotten logs and hollow trunks on a thick bed of pine needles in oak-pine forests located in a mountain range south of the city of Oaxaca at 1400-2700 m elev. Ochyrocera juquila resembles O. quinquevittata Simon 1891 from the Island of St. Vincent, in the angular shape of the embolus, which in the new species is V-shaped and in O. quinquevittata is L-shaped. Ochyrocera chiapas new species, was collected under rotten trunks and hollow trunks in abundant leaf litter in the tropical, humid Lacandona rainforest region located in eastern Chiapas, near the border with Guatemala. The species occurs at 160-260 m elev. Ochyrocera chiapas resembles O. arietina Simon, 1891 from the island of St. Vincent, in the similar shape of the embolus and distal apophysis of the cymbium, but in O. chiapas the embolus is more strongly curved and directed toward the distal part of the tibiae forming a "D"; in O. arietina the embolus is not as strongly curved as in O. chiapas. In both species, males and females were collected near each other; the females carried their egg sacs with their chelicerae. A key to the four known Mexican species is provided. /// Dos nuevas especies del gnero de araas Ochyrocera Simon 1891 son descritas para Mxico. Ochyrocera juquila nueva especie, fue colectada bajo troncos podridos y troncos huecos en una capa gruesa de agujas de pino, en bosque de pino-encino, en un sistema montaoso al sur de la ciudad de Oaxaca entre 1400-2700 m elev. Ochyrocera juquila esta relacionada con Ochyrocera quinquevittata Simon 1891 de la Isla de San Vicente, en la forma angular del mbolo, el cual en la nueva especie es en forma de "V", y en O. quinquevittata en forma de "L". Ochyrocera chiapas nueva especie, fue colectada en bosque tropical, bajo troncos podridos y en troncos huecos con mucha humedad, y abundante hojarasca, en la regin de la selva Lacandona localizada al este de Chiapas, cerca de la frontera con Guatemala, localizada entre 160-260 m elev. Ochyrocera chiapas est relacionada con Ochyrocera arietina Simon, 1891 de la Isla de San Vicente, en la forma similar del mbolo y apfisis distal del cimbio, pero en O. chiapas el mbolo es ms fuertemente recurvado y dirigido hacia parte distal de la tibia formando una "D", en O. arietina el embolo no est fuertemente recurvado como en O. chiapas. En ambas especies, machos y hembras fueron colectados cercanamente entre ellos; las hembras cargaban sus sacos de huevos con los quelceros. Se presenta una clave de identificatin para las cuatro especies mexicanas.
4129817|Web-building spiders are an important model system to address questions in a variety of biological fields. They are attractive because of their intriguing biology and because they can be fairly easily collected and maintained in the laboratory. However, the only published instructions for working with web-building spiders are somewhat outdated and not easily accessible. This paper aims to provide an up-to-date guide on how to best collect, keep and study web-building spiders. In particular, it describes how to obtain spiders by capturing them or by raising them from cocoons, how to keep and feed spiders in the laboratory and how to encourage them to build webs. Finally it describes how to document and analyze web building and web structure.
3706006|Spider competition has long been an elusive phenomenon for ecological study. Because most spiders are generalist predators, they are predicted to overlap in resource use wherever they overlap in space use and activity periods. However, despite this obvious potential for competition, the empirical evidence for competition has been weak. Spider competition could potentially limit densities in agricultural ecosystems, which would limit their effectiveness as biological control agents. We summarize the results of five studies in a type of ecosystem which may be considered to be analogous to row crops in both the physiognomy of vegetation and cyclic disturbance regimes, namely, wetlands. In addition, we summarize the results of our own work in a soybean ecosystem.
20788614|Maternally inherited endosymbiotic bacteria Wolbachia pipientis have been shown to have wide-ranging effects on the reproduction of their hosts. This study presents the first survey and characterization of Wolbachia pipientis that have infected spiders collected from Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. First, we used universal primers of the wsp gene (Wolbachia Surface Protein, WSP) to examine the infection of Wolbachia in spiders. We found that, out of 31 spider species, 7 species were infected with Wolbachia. Then we used the specific primers of the A and B Wolbachia supergroups for the wsp gene to determine if there are super-infections in these infected spiders. Specimens of Nephila clavata were infected with strains of both A and B Wolbachia, while the others were infected with either strain A or B. Lastly, we aligned the sequences obtained with published ones to establish the phylogenetic relationships among Wolbachia found in spiders. The Wolbachia in Larinia argiopiformis Bsenberg & Strand 1906, Eriovixia cavaleriei (Schenkel 1963), Araneus ventricosus (L. Koch 1978), and Pholcus crypticolens Bsenberg & Strand 1906 belong to the A supergroup and the other three species, Nephila clavata (L. Koch 1878), Oxyopes sertatus L. Koch 1877 and Coleosoma octomaculatum Bsenberg & Strand 1906 belong to the B supergroup.
40233831|Acrocerid flies are endoparasitoids of spiders. New host associations are reported for Ogcodes melampus Loew 1872, O. eugonatus Loew 1872, and Acrocera sp. (Group IV; sensu Sabrosky 1944) from reared individuals of two Salticidae species, Pelegrina proterva (Walckenaer 1837) (both Ogcodes species), and Eris militaris (Hentz 1845) (the Acrocera sp.) (Group IV; sensu Sabrosky 1944). The spiders were sampled in the canopy and understorey of a mature north-temperate hardwood forest at the Morgan Arboretum, Qubec, Canada.
3705601|The effects of prey capture on web site tenacity and survivorship of Argiope trifasciata (Araneae, Araneidae) were studied in two old field habitats in southwestern Ohio. Adult females were studied in habitats dominated by grass or thistle plants. In manipulation plots, we added two crickets to the webs of approximately half the spiders. We were able to quantify differences in prey intake using morphological measurements that changed with food consumption. The spiders that did not receive supplemental food were similar in size to unmanipulated spiders in other areas that we censused. No differences were observed in survivorship or web site tenacity of spiders in grass vs. thistle habitats. No difference in survivorship was observed between fed spiders and those left to natural prey capture. However, spiders receiving supplemental prey relocated their webs less frequently than those spiders that were unsupplemented.
3706110|The difference in activity levels between adult male and female spiders has been attributed to a more sexually motivated searching behavior by males, but the possibility that females reduce their activity when they reach maturity has not been considered, which may be evaluated by comparing adults and late instar juveniles behavior. We recorded the displacements during 15 min periods for 137 males, females and juveniles of Ctenus amphora and C. crulsi, two similar-sized syntopic hunting spiders species which search for prey on the leaf litter in central Amazonian tropical rainforests. For both species, males were significantly more active than females and juveniles. Ctenus amphora females were less active than juveniles, but the C. crulsi female activity did not differ from the juvenile activity. There were no significant differences in activity between these species for males and females, but the juveniles of C. amphora where more active than the juveniles of C. crulsi. Therefore, differences in activity between sexes are not always restricted to changes in male behavior, and the degree of decrease in female activity may depend on how active juveniles are.
41804569|Evarcha culicivora Wesolowska & Jackson 2003 is a jumping spider (Aranea: Salticidae) that has the distinction of being the only predator known to express an active preference for the vectors of human malaria (i.e., the mosquito genus Anopheles) and to feed indirectly on blood by choosing blood-carrying female mosquitoes as prey. Here we examine this predator's preference profile in greater detail than has been achieved before. Lures (dead prey mounted in life-like posture) were made from two mosquitoes (Anopheles gambiae and Culex quinquefasciatus) and a non-biting midge (Clinotanypus claripennis). Testing protocols were simultaneous presentation (two prey presented simultaneously), alternate day (two prey, each presented singly but on alternate days) and alternative prey (second prey presented while test spider feeding on first prey). Pre-trial fasts were 1, 7, 15 and 21 days. Findings from this combination of variables were used to estimate strengths of preferences. Besides confirming the preference of E. culicivora for blood meals and for Anopheles in particular, we provide the first evidence of a preference, independent of blood meals, for female instead of male mosquitoes. The strength of preference, measured by its persistence despite increasingly long pre-trial fasts, shows that preference for Anopheles is expressed by juveniles more strongly than by adults, but preference for blood meals is expressed by adults more strongly than by juveniles.
3706252|The first known fossil of the pseudoscorpion family Sternophoridae is described from Dominican amber. The specimen, an adult female, is tentatively assigned to the extant species Idiogaryops pumilus (Hoff), known from Florida and Little Cayman Island. The incomplete state of the fossil is probably the result of scavenging while the animal was trapped on the surface of the resin. The cuticular parts have collapsed during fossilization and the golden appearance of the fossil is due to light being reflected from the surface of the cast, rather than from the cuticle itself. A thin layer of cerotegument is recorded in Sternophoridae. The morphology of the coxal area is reinterpreted. The so-called pseudosternum is delimited by the apparent internal borders of the coxae, which have moved laterally. A Y-shaped canal runs from the openings of the coxal glands to the oral cavity, carrying their secretions, together with those of the accessory glands of the coxae, to the oral cavity. The canal is covered by a series of overlapping tecta on coxae I-III and posteriorly on the palpcoxae. The coxae are fused medially from the posterior margin of coxa I to the anterior margin of coxa IV. The internal modifications of the median and posterior maxillary lyrifissures of pseudoscorpions are shown to be apodemes of trochanteral muscles of the palp. The suboral setae of the manducatory process of certain Sternophoridae are vestigial, suggesting that they may be undergoing a regression. The parallel between the morphology of the vestitural setae and that of setae b and sb of the chelicera is used to identify the missing seta of Sternophoridae as sb.
3705118|As Gondwanaland fragmented due to plate tectonics, each of the southern continents carried with it a sample of the ancestral biota. Bothriurid scorpions are known from South America and Australia, and if this taxon was part of that ancestral biota then bothriurids would be predicted to occur in southern Africa as well. The genus Lisposoma Lawrence, currently placed in the Scorpionidae, lacks any demonstrable synapomorphies with other members of that family. The trichobothrial pattern and the structure of the tarsi represent synapomorphies between Lisposoma and the Bothriuridae. Lisposoma contains two species, both from Namibia, which represent the bothriurids in southern Africa.
3705486| The spider family Trechaleidae, introduced by Simon in 1898 but abandoned immediately thereafter, is defined. Characters proposed for trechaleids by recent authors for this family and some characters used to separate it from the Pisauridae and Lycosidae are reviewed. Genera included in the family Trechaleidae, all of which were previously placed in the Pisauridae, are: Trechalea, Hesydrus, Syntrechalea, Dossenus, Paradossenus, Dyrines and Enna. Familial placement of all other genera of the western hemisphere previously placed in the Pisauridae are considered. The genus Trechalea, with eleven species, is revised. Redescriptions of eight known species are given: T. longitarsis (C. L. Koch), T. cezariana Mello-Leito, T. macconnelli Pocock, T. paucispina di Caporiacco, T. connexa (O. Pickard-Cambridge), T. extensa (O. Pickard-Cambridge), T. gertschi Carico & Minch and T. amazonica F. Pickard-Cambridge. Descriptions of three new species: T. boliviensis, T. lomalinda and T. trinidadensis are presented. The holotype of the type species of Trechalea, T. longitarsis, is lost. The specimen which was previously regarded as the holotype is mislabelled and belongs actually to another, unnamed, trechaleid genus. All other relevant species names not synonymized with any of the above and not previously placed in Trechalea are removed to other known genera or will be later included in new genera. 
4149966|Wolf spiders (Araneae, Lycosidae) are important predators at freshwater-forest ecotones where their distribution may be determined by their ability to respond to, amongst other factors, moisture and prey levels. The purpose of this study was to examine the movement of wolf spiders along a pond-forest boundary at Mountain Lake Biological Station, Virginia. We performed two mark-recapture studies at two temporal and spatial scales (4 h-20 d and 1 m-~20 m, respectively) to determine the probability of movement by the spiders. Mark-recapture studies are useful for measuring individual movement, but, because of the difficulty of marking small arthropods, are not often used for spiders. This mark-recapture study showed the spiders moved very little over the temporal and spatial scale used: 0-54% per day chance of moving to the adjacent 1-m
3706207| The density, fecundity, and life-cycle of Pardosa moesta Banks 1892 and Pardosa mackenziana (Keyserling 1877) were studied in a deciduous forest in central Alberta, Canada. Density estimates were lower than reported for other Pardosa species; they ranged from 0.46 per m
3705656|Three different modes of maternal food supply have been reported in the sub-social agelenid species Coelotes terrestris: prey provisioning, consumption of the mother's body, and regurgitation of nutritive fluids. Although the first two modes are well documented, the latter is not fully assessed. By comparing-in the absence of any prey-the weight variations in spiderlings either left with their mother or isolated, and by simultaneously comparing the weight variations of mothers, either isolated or left within the group of spiderlings, it was possible to see evidence of a significant and long-lasting food transfer from the mother to her progeny. This food transfer probably explains the high level of survivorship and reduction of cannibalism showed by broods left with their mothers. Close observation provided no direct evidence of mouth to mouth transfer. Rather, the food transfer appears to involve the production and emission of miniature eggs by the mother when in presence of spiderlings, a phenomenon which to date seems not to have been noted among spiders.
25067889|Two nominal species of harvestmen from eastern North America, Leiobunum verrucosum and L. nigripes, are generally distinguished by color patterns. However, laboratory-reared individuals and sequential sampling in the field clearly show that adult individuals change from the "verrucosum" pattern to the "nigripes" pattern during normal maturation. Specimens of the two nominal species were obtained from the original H. C. Wood and C. M. Weed collections and found to be effectively identical in all diagnostic details. Leiobunum nigripes is a junior synonym of L. verrucosum.
3705551|Mortality rates were measured in Euscorpius flavicaudis larvae which had been made to stay on their mother's back (as actually occurs in nature) or had been separated from their mother, under three different relative humidity levels. Mortality was greatest among larvae exposed to low RH levels and in any cases, among larvae separated from their mother. The mother-offspring relationship likely serves several functions: it is an obvious defense against predators and provides an optimum micro-habitat selection. These experiments suggest that the mother may also provide a greater resistance to dehydration, either by water-proofing the larvae or by refurnishing their water loss.
24717309|Three unknown species of Euathlus Ausserer 1875 (Araneae: Theraphosidae) are recognized and formally described. Euathlus diamante Ferretti sp. nov., E. sagei Ferretti sp. nov., and E. tenebrarum Ferretti sp. nov. are described from the Mendoza and Neuqun provinces of western Argentina. The cladistic analysis showed Euathlus as monophyletic supported by the following synapomorphies: i) male tibial apophysis with fused branches bases; ii) presence of a ventral spine on retrolateral branch of male tibial apophysis; iii) sternum longer than wide. According to this cladistics analysis, a tree topology of (Homoeomma uruguayense (Mello-Leito 1946) (Plesiopelma longisternale (Schiapelli & Gerschman 1942) (Grammostola anthracina (C.L. Koch 1842) (Phrixotrichus scrofa (Molina 1788) (E. tenebrarum sp. nov. (E. truculentus L. Koch 1875, E. sagei sp. nov. ((E. parvulus (Pocock 1903) (E. condorito Perafn & Prez-Miles 2014, E. manicata (Simon 1892), E. atacama Perafn & Prez-Miles 2014)) (E. antai Perafn & Prez-Miles 2014, E. diamante sp. nov.)))))))) is reported.
3705542|Mysmenopsis furtiva, a tiny spider which lives in the funnelwebs of the Jamaican diplurid spider, Ischnothele xera, behaves both as a kleptoparasite and as a commensal; it pilfers portions of its host's prey and also captures and consumes minute insects which are trapped in the host web and unnoticed or ignored by the host. Mysmenopsis furtiva is able to ingest hemolymph from its host's prey at a much faster rate than it can ingest material from the insects it captures. Two of its stealth strategies are to move not at all or slowly when the host is motionless and to synchronize its rapid movements with host movements. The host's anti-kleptoparasite behaviors suggest that the kleptoparasite has a significant negative impact on the host.
3706208|The current rate of species attrition necessitates the development of quick and accurate sampling protocols and species richness estimators. Four time-based and one area-based methods were used to sample spiders of a grass bald and a heath bald in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in late spring and early fall of 1995. Eighty-four samples were collected at each site; 1853 adults and 91 species were found in the grass bald, 573 adults and 60 species in the heath bald. The data were analyzed with 11 species richness estimators: Chao & Lee 1, Chao & Lee 2, ACE, ICE, bootstrap, Chao 1, Chao 2, first-order jackknife, second-order jackknife, Michaelis-Menten runs, and Michaelis-Menten means. All but the Chao & Lee estimators generated richness estimates that clustered within a reasonable range, 106-160 species for the grass bald and 68-90 species for the heath bald. The failure of the observed species accumulation curve to level off for our data sets showed that more sampling would be needed to determine the number of species present as adults during the two sampling seasons. Although this prevented us from rigorously testing richness estimator performance, we found that the Michaelis-Menten means estimator performed better than the other estimators when judged by two indirect criteria of good estimator performance-the estimator curve should reach an asymptote with fewer samples than are required for the observed species accumulation curve to reach an asymptote, and the estimates should be close to reasonable visual extrapolations of the asymptote of the observed species accumulation curve. We postulate that the differences we found in species richness and taxon and guild composition between the spider assemblages of these two bald communities are, at least in part, a consequence of striking differences in the physiognomy, richness, and taxonomic composition of the plant associations of the two communities.
3704953|Phidippus johnsoni constructs tubular nests from silk under rocks, under pieces of wood, inside hollow reeds, etc.; and these are involved in molting, courtship, mating, oviposition, and other aspects of the spider's life history. Relatively large rocks and pieces of wood tend to be chosen for nest sites. Nest length tends to be two to three times greater than the spider's body length. Nests vary in shape, density, raggedness, and the degree to which they are cluttered with debris. Most spiders reside in nests of greater density and lesser raggedness and clutter. Molting and oviposition occur in especially dense nests. Spiders tend to remain inside nests for six days preceding and two days following molting. Spiders enter their nests before dark and remain inside at night. Much time is probably spent spinning. Males are more likely to be found outside nests compared to females and immatures, and the nests they occupy tend to be less dense. Marked spiders in the field employ the same nest sites for prolonged periods (maximum, 28 to 33 days), sometimes making excursions of as far as 1.2 m away from nests before returning. Two adult females in individual terraria each occupied a single nest for 6 to 7 months, sometimes making excursions of as far as 80 cm. Females in nature and the laboratory oviposited repeated batches in single nests. Sometimes nests built by other individuals were employed by spiders.
3705822| This is the first paper to review the literature records on all pathogens and parasites of Opiliones on a global level. These organisms (bacteria, fungi, protozoans, cestodes, trematodes, nematodes, arthropods) are listed in phylogenetic order along with available information on hosts, collection localities, life history, and taxonomic history. The opilion hosts are also listed (by their currently accepted names) along with the names of their known pathogens and parasites. Diagnostic characters and some taxonomic keys are provided for taxa which are relatively well know. Citations to other available keys are provided. Many new host and distribution records are provided. Two fungi [Engyodontium aranearum (Cavara), Torrubiella pulvinata Mains] are removed from the list of pathogens of opilions and it is suggested that the original hosts were misidentified spiders. Two new combinations are recorded in the Mermithidae: Agamomermis phalangii (Haldeman 1851), Agamomermis truncatula (Rudolphi 1819). Agamermis incerta Steiner in Stipperger 1928 is regarded as a nomen nudum. The type locality of the mite Leptus lomani (Oudemans 1903b) is restricted to Corral (3953S, 7325W), Valdivia, Chile. 
3705156|A new genus and species, Oreolpium nymphum, and a new species, Larca chamberlini are described. Olpium frontalis Banks and Pseudogarypinus marianae (Chamberlin) are synonomized and redescribed. Distributional data is provided for the above species and Archeolarca rotunda Hoff and Clawson.
25067886|A single male from Oaxaca, Mexico is described as the new species, Tinus oaxaca, based on distinct features of the palpus including the shape of the retrolateral apophysis, the position of components of the palpal bulb, and the color pattern of the dorsum. Notes on the current taxonomic status of the genus Tinus are included.
3706262| During the last two decades a great number of studies dealing with arctic and boreal spiders have been published, both in the Palaearctic and the Nearctic. Such an increase in information makes it possible to analyze basic patterns of spider diversity in the North as well as to show areas where further studies are still necessary. The number of species found in faunas of larger areas north of 60N varies from 620 (Finland) to 250 (Polar Urals) and 300 (Yukon), when island faunas are excluded. Two areas, divided by the Bering Strait, Northeastern Siberia and north-western North America have marked proportion of endemic taxa (ca. 8%) belonging to several spider families. Considerable number of endemic spiders are known also in Middle Siberia. The number of spiders in local faunas of the boreal zone varies around 300 species. Study of species composition in more than 20 local northern faunas reveals that proportion of Lycosidae species in each local fauna varies in smallest range (7-12% of all species found) in comparison to other families. Thus Lycosidae can be used as an indicator group of general species diversity of spiders in local faunas. 
3706224|Spiderlings of the theraphosid spider Hysterocrates gigas were reared for 12 weeks with a superabundance of prey solitarily and in groups of two and four to examine the influence of rearing group size on growth. This taxon was selected because observations made on captive populations indicate that Hysterocrates spp. tarantulas have an unusually high level of mutual tolerance and captive juveniles have been observed to feed cooperatively on large prey until several months old. Cannibalism was only observed in one instance, in a group of four. There was no significant effect of rearing group size on increase in body mass. There was a tendency for a greater asymmetry in final weight in dyads than in tetrads. No difference was found in the amount of time spent feeding by individuals between the different group sizes. Hence, benefits of group living in Hysterocrates gigas spiderlings were not evident in this study.
24717273|Many animals build homes to which they return after excursions. However, the sensory and motor mechanisms that animals use to home are poorly understood. Sand scorpions, including Paruroctonus utahensis (Williams 1968), make burrows from which they emerge to hunt at night. These scorpions spend most of their surface time within about a meter of their burrow. Our goal was to create a laboratory environment conducive to scorpion homing behavior. Specifically, our objectives were to verify in-lab burrow use similar to field observations and to characterize scorpion movements in these artificial environments. Tests occurred in circular, sand-filled arenas (65 cm diam); in the center of each was a shelter (a small jar lid with openings for the scorpions to enter). We used IR cameras to film all trials from above in a room with a 14:10 hour light-dark cycle. Animals were tested over a 7-day period for their tendency to establish and return to their shelters on a normal day/night cycle. Time-in-shelter percentages showed significant evidence of shelter use, consistent with their normal burrow use in the field. In the second experiment, we wrote a MATLAB program to automatically track several hours of videotaped scorpion nocturnal movements. Animals spent most of their time along the arena walls but made intermittent forays across the arena center. When they returned to their shelters, their movements appeared to be direct and deliberate. This behavioral set-up will be useful in future attempts to deduce the sensory information these animals use to return to their burrows.
3705379|Some females of the funnel-web spider, Agelena limbata multiply mate. After copulation, males make a visible copulatory plug which covers the female's genital opening. I assessed the effect of copulatory plugs on the fertilization success of second males, by conducting double mating experiments, using fertile and sterilized males in sequence. When females copulated with only one fertile male, more than 90% of their eggs were fertilized. Some males deposited complete plugs and others incomplete plugs. The relative size of the males to females and absolute male size affected the completeness of plugs. Complete plugs prevented another male's insemination completely, but incomplete plugs allowed insemination by second males. In general, first males had higher fertilization success than second or later males, and copulatory plugs enhanced the first male's advantage.
25434318|Lycosa apothetica Wallace 1947 is redescribed as a member of the genus Varacosa Chamberlin & Ivie 1942 based on genitalic morphology. The species is freshly illustrated, and information is provided as to its distribution and interesting characteristics.
3706315| The new species Bothriurus jesuita is described. This species belongs to the bonariensis species group and is closely related to Bothriurus chacoensis Maury & Acosta 1993 from which it can be distinguished by its thicker and taller chela and because of it is almost 30% larger. It can be distinguished from Bothriurus bonariensis (C.L. Koch 1842) because it has an apical filament on the basal lobe of the right hemispermatophore and because the frontal ridge reaches the frontal fold. Bothriurus jesuita has been collected in the northern region of Corrientes Province and in Misiones Province in an area that belongs to the "Paranaense" Phytogeographic Province. /// En el presente trabajo se describe a Bothriurus jesuita sp. nov., esta especie pertenece al grupo bonariensis y se encuentra muy relacionada con Bothriurus chacoensis Maury y Acosta 1993; puede diferenciarse de sta por poseer una pinza ms alta y robusta, y por ser casi un 30% ms grande. Puede diferenciarse de Bothriurus bonariensis (C.L. Koch 1842) por poseer un filamento en el lbulo basal del hemiespermatforo derecho, y porque la cresta frontal de la lmina distal llega hasta el repliegue frontal. Bothriurus jesuita slo ha sido colectada en el norte de la provincia de Corrientes y en la provincia de Misiones, en un rea correspondiente con la provincia fitogeogrfica Paranaense. 
4149971| The new species Pachychernes tamaulipensis is described from all free-living stages collected in nests of the packrat, Neotoma micropus, in Tamaulipas, Mxico. This species is related to P. shelfordi, P. zehorum, P. attenuatus and P. baileyi; all of them form a coherent group. The distribution of the pseudoscorpions in the different components of the nests is analyzed. /// Se describe la nueva especie Pachychernes tamaulipensis considerando todos sus estadios de desarrollo, los cuales fueron colectados en nidos de Neotoma micropus en Tamaulipas, Mxico. Esta especie est relacionada P. shelfordi, P. zehorum, P. attenuatus y P. baileyi, los cuales forman un grupo coherente. Se analiza la distribucin de los pseudoescorpiones en los diferentes componentes del nido. 
3706278|An analysis of the spider assemblage structure and the presence of indicator species in the Flemish coastal dunes are presented. The analysis is based on data from more than 170 year-round pitfall sampling campaigns from the 1970s onwards. We were able to find indicator species for all identified habitats. The assemblages are determined by variation in vegetation structure (succession), atmospheric and soil humidity and the occurrence of both natural of anthropogenic disturbance. In the fragmented habitats (grasslands and grey dunes), a clear relationship was found between the mean habitat size and the stability of the assemblage composition. In moss dominated dunes and short grasslands total species numbers do not increase with patch size. Due to microhabitat variation and the possibility of attaining viable population sizes the total number of typical species is, however, higher in larger patches. In small patches, edge effects are more important and the number of observed species is enlarged by the intrusion of species from nearby habitats.
4149983|Samples from Palpigradi, Ricinulei, and Schizomida were examined by energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) for the presence of metallic elements in cuticular structures. Manganese was found in Ricinulei while zinc was found in Palpigradi and Schizomida. When presence or absence of zinc is superimposed on a cladogram of arachnid orders, its absence in the Acaromorpha (Acari + Ricinulei) appears to be a derived condition. Similarly the absence of manganese in the Uropygi (Schizomida + Thelyphonida) may be synapomorphic as well.
25654023|We describe a new unusual setule on type IV urticating setae of the theraphosid spider Homoeomma uruguayense (Mello-Leito 1946). These processes have a filiform stalk and a funnel-like apex that arise from the main axis of the urticating seta. The probable function of these structures in passive and active defense is discussed.
25654005|Areomartus ovatus Petrunkevitch 1913, from the Pennsylvanian (Kanawah Formation; Bashkirian?) of Cotton Hill, Fayette County, West Virginia, USA is redescribed. Originally placed in the family Eophrynidae of the extinct arachnid order Trigonotarbida, it lacks unequivocal eophrynid features. Nevertheless, Areomartus Petrunkevitch 1913 was used as the type genus of a now superfluous eophrynid subfamily Areomartinae Petrunkevitch 1955. The present revision suggests that too much emphasis was placed on the primary diagnostic character of Areomartus, hexagonal fields across the carapace, in a rather poorly preserved and incomplete specimen. Areomartus ovatus is thus removed from Eophrynidae and treated as Trigonotarbida incertae sedis. Vratislavia silesica (Rmer 1878) from the Pennsylvanian (Langsettian?) of Kodzko (formally Glatz) in Silesia, Poland is another problematic eophrynid. The holotype is believed lost, and thus interpretations rely on published figures. Opisthosomal morphology suggests that V. silesica actually belongs in a different trigonotarbid family: Anthracosironidae.
3705407|Foliage-dwelling spiders were collected using sweep nets in pond pine, sand pine scrub, and flatwoods plant communities on the University of Central Florida campus near Orlando. Collections were made bimonthly from May, 1983 through March, 1984. A total of 4,022 spiders was collected; 2,076 in pond pine, 1,258 in sand pine scrub, and 688 in flatwoods. Spider diversity was greatest in pond pine, followed by sand pine scrub and then flatwoods community. Similarity in spider species was greatest between pond pine and flatwoods. Salticids represented 40.2% of the combined populations. Misumenops celer (Hentz) was found in all three plant communities and was abundant.
20798586|The female of Orsolobus pucara Forster & Platnick 1985 is described and its genitalia examined using the scanning electron microscope (SEM). A small phylogenetic matrix with female genital and sexual behavior characters was made with the aim to study the evolution of these characters in the superfamily Dysderoidea. This is the first time that the female genitalia of a species of the family Orsolobidae have been studied in detail with SEM. The anterior portion of the female genitalia is a sclerotized structure with gland ducts and sites for muscle attachments. The posterior portion has a membranous receptaculum and a sclerotized plate that serves as attachment for muscles. We discuss the probable function of genital characters in a phylogenetic context. The anterior sclerotized elements of the female genitalia of some Dysderidae, Orsolobidae and Oonopidae species and the anterior receptaculum in the Segestriidae seem to be homologous structures because of the presence of gland ducts and sperm. However, both of these characteristics are lost in some species of these families, the anterior portion of the female genitalia being transformed into a highly modified structure serving mainly as attachment for muscles implicated in sexual behavior mechanisms.
3705399| Trichobothriotaxic evolution was studied through the postembryonic development of Theridion rufipes. It was found that this species belongs to the plesiomorphic pattern (Lehtinen 1980) and only presents basal growth. The number of trichobothria on the tibia of the male palp is three and on the female palp is five. The total number of trichobothria on specimens of different sexes is similar because the same number of molts is necessary for reaching adult stage, being six trichobothria on the tibia of leg IV for both sexes. On the tibia of leg I the number of trichobothria is five in males and six in females. The individual variation between right side and left or between specimens of different sexes is not significant. /// En el presente trabajo se estudi la evolucin de la tricobotriotaxia a travs del desarrollo postembrionario de Theridion rufipes. Se demostr que esta especie pertenece al patrn plesiomrfico (Lehtinen 1980); posee nicamente crecimiento basal; el nmero de tricobotrias de las tibias de los palpos en machos y hembras es de tres y cinco respectivamente; el nmero total de tricobotrias es semejante en ambos sexos porque igual nmero de mudas es necesario para alcanzar el estado adulto (en la tibia de la pata IV es igual a seis para ambos sexos y en la tibia de la pata I es igual a cinco en los machos y seis en las hembras); la variacin individual entre el lado derecho e izquierdo o entre ejemplares de distinto sexo no es significativa. 
3705876|I systematically sampled, by pitfall trap, spiders in three different but nearly contiguous fens (Seep, Prairie and Forested) as well as those in the surrounding habitat (Oak-hickory forest) in southern Missouri. Samples were taken biweekly from May through August. Fifty-five species of cursorial spiders were found, of these, 17 occurred only within one or more of the fens and not in the surrounding habitat. All habitats, and particularly fens, were dominated by wolf spiders. Jaccard's similarity coefficient showed spider faunas of the Seep and Prairie fens were more similar to one another than to that of the Forested fen. While both Seep and Forested fen habitats harbored spider species quite different from the surrounding Oak-hickory forest, many species from the Forested fen were also found in the Oak-hickory habitat (56.3%). Abundances of spiders were greatest in May and declined through summer in all habitats, except the Seep fen in which abundances remained fairly constant. Tests of interspecific association among species within Lycosidae, Clubionidae, and Gnaphosidae gave no evidence of negative associations of species, which could theoretically result from interspecific competition, among the three fen habitats. I conclude that the spider faunas associated with the fens are quite distinct from that of the surrounding habitat with each fen harboring a somewhat unique assemblage of spiders and that there is no evidence of competitive exclusion of species from the fen habitats.
3705361| Feeding by winter-active and winter-inactive species of spiders at low temperatures and the kinds of invertebrate prey eaten were determined. Winter-active spiders fed at 2C, less often at -2C and rarely at -5C, whereas winter-inactive species displayed even more reduced feeding or none. All prey offered to the spiders were eaten except nabids, hymenopterans and the collembolan Onychiurus pseudoarmatus. In general, small spiders consumed small prey and larger spiders larger prey. Some scavenging was seen in large female spiders. The most probable prey of winter-active spiders are the winter-active collembolans, all of which inhabit the subnivean space and litter during winter. 
3706187|This study continues documentation of the adaptive radiation of species in the genus Tetragnatha in the Hawaiian archipelago. The five new species described here are representatives of the 'spiny-leg' clade, most representatives of which have already been described. The new species are T. kukuiki, T. kikokiko, T. anuenue, T. kukuhaa, and T. obscura. The species described are found in various different habitat types from low (e.g., 550 m on Oahu) to middle elevations (1660 m on Hawaii), and from dry to very wet forest types. As with other representatives of the clade, they are nocturnal hunters, do not build webs, and move actively around the vegetation.
25434294|Sociality occurs in less than one percent of all arachnids. Prolonged subsocial behavior with amicable mother-offspring-sibling associations that extend for a year has recently been reported in captive amblypygids, Damon diadema Simon 1876 (whip spiders; order Amblypygi, family Phrynichidae; Rayor & Taylor 2006). Many social animals have the ability to discriminate kin from other conspecifics so that benefits of group-living are preferentially directed toward kin, although kin discrimination is rare in social spiders. To aid in quantifying rates of behavior, we developed a behavioral ethogram of social and agonistic interactions in immature D. diadema. We conducted two experiments that demonstrate the ability of immature D. diadema to recognize and behave differentially toward kin. In a series of cross-introduction experiments, immature kin or non-kin were introduced into social groups to determine whether aggression and non-aggressive interaction rates varied based on their relationship to the resident animals. To test the hypothesis that differences in behavior were due to familiarity with the habitat, rather than with kinship with resident animals, individuals were cross-introduced into unfamiliar habitats with kin or non-kin. In these introduction experiments, kinship determined the level of aggression among individuals while habitat familiarity did not have an effect. Using olfactory cues alone in Y-maze choice experiments, 9-month old amblypygids discriminated their mother from an unrelated adult female and spent significantly more time near their mother. We discuss our results in relation to other examples of kin discrimination in insects and arachnids, and potential benefits to amblypygids at different ages.
3706282|Pitfall traps were used to census ground-active spiders in 12 different habitat types in protected savanna biomes in Tanzania and Namibia. With roughly equivalent trapping effort in the two areas, a total of 229 spider species and 40 families were trapped in Mkomazi Game Reserve and 151 species and 34 families in Etosha National Park. The family composition of the fauna of the two areas was similar, with Salticidae accounting for 17% (Mkomazi) and 14% (Etosha) of all species and Gnaphosidae accounting for 16% (Mkomazi) and 14% (Etosha) of the total. Other families that accounted for a significant proportion of species included Lycosidae (6-7%) and Zodariidae (6-7.5%). Despite the intensive trapping effort, there was no indication from species accumulation curves that a complete estimate of the spider species richness had been obtained from either area. The possible reasons for the differences in spider species richness and family composition in the two areas are discussed.
3705524|The data for species of spiders observed and collected for a period of eight years from a rural delivery mailbox route in Mashpee, Massachusetts is examined. We collected 1252 individuals, with 199 species represented. Some species were year-round residents of mailboxes while others appeared only during limited periods of time. Species typically found in the foliage of coniferous trees and on the trunks of pines and oaks dominated the collections, with lesser numbers from other types of habitats. The species observed are divided into categories depending upon their consistency in terms of time of occurrence and number. Species that occurred only rarely tended to be different from year to year.
41804585|Philoponella vicina O. Pickard-Cambridge 1899 rests on its orb web in a cryptic posture with its legs folded against its body. While feeding, the spider coats the entire prey with digestive fluid and changes its posture, spreading its anterior legs wide. We tested whether this change in leg position may function to protect against damage to its legs from its own digestive fluid. When we touched detached legs I with prey packages wetted with digestive fluid, more setae fell from the legs than when we applied tap water in a similar manner. In addition, intersegmental membranes were damaged by digestive fluid, but not by water. This and other uloborids may thus break their cryptic postures while feeding in order to avoid damage from their own digestive enzymes.
3706334|Prey specialization and the predatory behavior of two European ant-eating zodariid spiders, Zodarion germanicum and Zodarion rubidum, were studied in detail. The spiders were offered 12 ant species and seven other insects (termites, beetles, aphids, silverfish, flies, crickets and grasshoppers). Study spiders turned out to be ant specialists as they were able to subdue many ant species but ignored all other insects, except termites, which they attacked but rarely subdued. The best capture success was obtained with medium-sized ants (e.g. Lasius and Formica). The predatory behavior of the zodariid spiders involves an attacking and a handling phase separated by a period of waiting at a safe distance. The attacking phase consisted of a very rapid lunge from the rear, followed by a bite on the most extended ant leg. After an attack, the spider retreated to a safe distance, perhaps an indication that natural selection has favored such caution in the presence of an aggressive prey. The spider waited until the ant ceased moving. Such predatory behavior, which limits contact with the predator and prey, is clearly an effective means of handling a dangerous prey.
3705027|Most empirical studies of spider ballooning use sticky traps to sample the aeronaut fauna. Once the animals are removed from the adhesive and passed through solvents into preservative, biologically meaningful masses cannot be determined directly. We use simple linear regressions to describe relationships between live masses of wild-caught animals and a volume estimate which treats the spider as a cylindrical solid with diameter equal to the mean of greatest carapace and abdomen width and height equal to total length. Of regressions for six families studied in detail, the slope for tetragnathids differs significantly from those for all but one of the other five. Pair-wise comparisons of slopes for the five non-tetragnathid families show no statistically significant differences. We therefore present two linear regression equations, one for tetragnathids and other similar-shaped spiders, and the other for "typical" (all other) spiders. Limited data from one species each of pisaurid and linyphiid are statistically indistinguishable from the "typical" regression but highly significantly different from the tetragnathid regression, lending added support to a dichotomy in shape between tetragnathids and other spiders. Simple linear regressions of mass on the volume estimate tend to explain more of the variation in mass than traditional power functions of mass on measurements of single body dimensions.
3706357|A spider's calamistrum draws silk fibrils from its cribellum and helps combine them with supporting strands to form a cribellar prey capture thread. Despite the close functional association of these two features, this study shows that there is a great deal of variability in the ratio of cribellum width to calamistrum length. When the independent contrast method was used to examine these two features in 11 species representing seven families, no relationship was found. Likewise, no relationship was found among nine species representing seven genera of the family Uloboridae. Only among the 14 species of Mallos (Dictynidae) was calamistrum length directly related to cribellum width. This suggests that, above the genus level, differences in spinning behavior and morphological features such as leg length and abdomen size and shape influence the relationship of these two features.
23048785|In Central America, the family Manaosbiidae is recorded only from Panama and Costa Rica. Four species occur in this region: Barrona williamsi Goodnight & Goodnight 1942, Bugabitia triacantha Roewer 1915, Poassa limbata Roewer 1943, and Zygopachylus albomarginis Chamberlin 1925. In this paper, we describe Barrona felgenhaueri new species (Cocl Province, Panama) and Bugabitia akini new species (Cocl Province, Panama) and report a new record for B. williamsi (Cocl Province, Panama). We used SEM to examine the penis morphology of Barrona Goodnight & Goodnight 1942 and the Caribbean species Cranellus montgomeryi Goodnight & Goodnight 1947 and Rhopalocranaus albilineatus Roewer 1932. We compared genital morphology of these species with published descriptions for Manaosbiidae from South America. With respect to genital morphology, we found that the most variable characters were the number and relative sizes of the setae that occur on the lateral margins of the ventral plate. Other features that exhibited interspecific variation included the shape of the ventral plate, the shape of the distal border of the ventral plate, and the shape and armature of the apex of the stylus.
4129846|The spider genus Taurongia Hogg 1901 and the species T. punctata (Hogg 1900) are redescribed. Taurongia punctata is shown to be a rather variable species with a widespread distribution across the eastern central Victorian highlands. Taurongia punctata is a robust spider, contrasting with a more gracile new species, T. ambigua, described from the western Victorian highlands. The placement of the latter in Taurongia is provisional and may change once other undescribed 'Taurongia group' genera from eastern Australia have been examined. The Taurongia species dealt with here differ from the latter taxa in having an increased number of cylindrical spigots and a large palpal median apophysis.
20788611|Understanding the variation of diversity patterns requires analysis at multiple spatial scales. In this study we estimated the diversity components (alpha, beta and gamma) of the spider community at El Vinculo Natural Regional Park, using the additive partitioning of diversity (species richness, Shannon's diversity index and Simpson's index) for the first time on this taxon in Colombia. We collected the specimens following a nested sampling design that consisted of two spatial scales. At the local scale, we quantified additive diversity components in 238 sampling units, and at the regional scale in five vegetation types. Total observed regional diversity () was partitioned into its additive components: within sampling units (), among sampling units () and among vegetation types (). We used the same approach to compare common and infrequent spider species and to compare sampling methods. A total of 1565 adult spiders and 72 identifiable juveniles, including 193 morphospecies from 36 families, was sampled during the study. In all cases (entire community, infrequent species, common species and four different sampling methods) we found that a significant percentage, relative to that of randomization tests, of the diversity measurements used was attributed to beta diversity among vegetation types. The relative contributions of alpha and beta diversity to total observed regional diversity depended on the diversity measurement used. The contribution of beta diversity with respect to alpha diversity was low using Simpson's index (less than 20%), whereas with species richness and Shannon's index the contribution was high (up to 90% and up to 66%, respectively). Our results suggest that beta diversity is the main component of diversity in the natural park. We concluded that the maintenance of a large variety of vegetation types can be an important tool for the conservation of spider richness at the natural park.
3705113|Apparatus and auxillary equipment for the forcible silking of spiders are described and illustrated. These facilitate the identification of the glandular sources of the fibers, allow for their localized isolation on a wind-up mandrel, and make possible their removal as continuous lengths or toroidal bundles for further study. Detailed descriptions are given for preferred techniques.
25434305|Orbiculariae consists of two major clades: the cribellate Deinopoidea and the much more diverse ecribellate Araneoidea. It has been hypothesized that the higher diversity of Araneoidea is a consequence of the superiority of the viscid orb web. However, this explanation seems incomplete; for example, cribellate silk may perform better than viscid silk in some contexts. Here, we consider the hypothesis that the diversification of Araneoidea was facilitated by changes in microhabitat occupation behavior due to the cheaper viscid orb web. In the present work we investigate the idea that the reduction in site tenacity caused by the emergence of the viscid orb web has led to an increase in the exploration of different resources and to a greater diversification of the Araneoidea through the evolutionary time. To test this idea, we evaluated the response of one cribellate orb web spider (Zosis geniculata Olivier 1789, Uloboridae) and one ecribellate orb web spider (Metazygia rogenhoferi Keyserling 1878, Araneidae) to abrupt prey absence. The changes in site tenacity and the day-to-day investment in web silk were evaluated. Spiders with three-dimensional webs tend to exhibit greater site tenacity than spiders making orb webs. Zosis geniculata and M. rogenhoferi show similar site tenacity when prey is ample. When prey is unavailable, the tenacity of the cribellate species increases while the tenacity of the ecribellate remains unchanged, and the silk investment of both species decreases. However, this decrease in silk investment is more extensive in Z. geniculata. These results coincide with the idea that a less costly ecribellate orb web leads to a lower tenacity and suggest that more frequent microhabitat abandonment in a context of insect radiation (Neoptera) leads to more diverse and opportunistic exploration of microhabitats that, in the long term, may be one explanation for the greater Araneoidea diversification. /// Orbiculariae  composto por dois grandes clados de aranhas, as cribeladas Deinopoidea e as no cribeladas e muito mais diversas Araneoidea. A hiptese mais aceita  a de que a maior diversificao do grupo ecribelado (Araneoidea)  devido  superioridade da teia orbicular viscosa. Porm, essa explicao no  suficiente para explicar a diversificao de Araneoidea j que o fio cribelado, por exemplo, pode ser mais eficiente em alguns contextos ecolgicos. Assim, consideramos a hiptese de que a diversificao de Araneoidea foi facilitado pela reduo na tenacidade pelo microlocal, conseqncia do surgimento de uma teia de fio viscoso mais barato. Para comear a explorar essa idia ns avaliamos a resposta de uma espcie cribelada (Zosis geniculata Olivier 1789, Uloboridae) e de uma ecribelada (Metazygia rogenhoferi Keyserling 1878, Araneidae) a um evento de indisponibilidade de presas. Acompanhamos as mudanas na tenacidade e no investimento em seda dia-a-dia. As aranhas construtoras de teias caras tendem a apresentar maior tenacidade pelo microlocal do que as construtoras de teias baratas. Orbitelas cribeladas e ecribeladas tambm apresentam diferentes investimentos na construo e manuteno da teia. Com a ingesto regular de presas Z. geniculata e M. rogenhoferi apresentam tenacidades similares. Quando cessa a oferta de presas, a tenacidade da espcie cribelada aumenta enquanto a espcie ecribelada mantm-se inalterada, porm, o investimento em seda de ambas diminui, e Z. geniculata reduz mais intensamente o investimento em seda. A maior freqncia no abandono da teia teria permitido, de modo oportunstico, uma maior e mais rpida explorao de recursos novos advindos da radiao do grupo de insetos alados modernos. O efeito dessa maior mobilidade pelo ambiente, ao longo do tempo evolutivo, poderia ajudar a explicar a radiao de Araneoidea em relao a seu grupo-irmo cribelado.
3705778|The validity of the genera Meta C. L. Koch and Metellina Chamberlin & Ivie is supported, mainly based on genital structure and living habitats. Two new species, closely related to and earlier partly included in Meta menardi (Latreille) (limited to Europe), are described: M. americana n. sp. (eastern North America) and M. manchurica n. sp. (Russian Far East). The additional species of Meta are M. bourneti Simon (southern Europe, Caucasus and Canary Islands) and M. dolloff Levi (California).
24365306|Phoneutria boliviensis (F.O.P.-Cambridge 1897) is a medically important wandering spider distributed from Central America to northern South America. This study is the first description of the natural history of this species, and presents data on several aspects of its natural history: reproductive and prey wrapping behavior, postembryonic development, and habitats in the departments of Valle del Cauca and Quindio, Colombia. Prior to copulation, the male did not engage in any courtship from a distance, but instead climbed onto the female, adopting the typical copulation position of "modern wandering spiders" (position III). Females laid up to four egg sacs; between 4301300 hatchlings emerged after 2834 days. After hatching, spiderlings had a third claw on all their legs and built an irregular web, where they remained until the next molt. Sexual maturity occurred after 1417 molts, and spiders matured 300465 days after emerging from the egg sac. The species was found in disturbed habitats associated with both dry and wet tropical forests, usually on the ground with little litter. Spiders wrapped prey in silk, moving in a stereotypically circular pattern around the prey without manipulating threads with their legs. Attachments to the substrate involved rapid movements of the anterior spinnerets, while the others remained immobile.
3705712| The four species are redescribed in modern terms and their identities are established, based on study of the types and other available material. Obisium theveneti is newly assigned to the genus Globocreagris uri; Obisium macilentum is placed in Fissilicreagris uri; Chelifer (Chelanops) acuminatus is confirmed in Lustrochernes Beier, following tentative placement in that genus by Beier (1932b); and Chelifer scabriculus is left in Parachelifer Chamberlin, as established by Chamberlin (1932). 
23610256|Cryptic animals tend to spend most of their lives keeping still. The majority of predators, however, including those cryptically colored, are forced to move in order to find and approach their prey. For such predators visibility may be an important factor influencing predatory behavior. Therefore we can expect differences in the way they approach their prey on backgrounds with different camouflaging properties. To test this, we examined the behavior of Yllenus arenarius Menge 1868 (Araneae: Salticidae), a cryptically colored jumping spider, hunting leafhoppers on backgrounds matching and non-matching for the spiders. Juvenile and female Y. arenarius are cryptic on light sand, but males lose their cryptic coloration for this background after their final molt. We designed an experiment to determine if increased visibility of the spiders influenced their predatory behavior. We found that background color had a significant effect on jumping distance, approaching speed and predatory success. On the light background cryptic spiders attacked from closer distances, approached prey with faster speeds and had higher success than on the dark background. Differences in approaching speed between males before and after final molt suggest a combined effect of background color and ontogenetic change of body coloration on the predatory decisions of these male spiders.
20788627|The remarkable bark spiders (genus Caerostris: Araneidae) are poorly known Old World tropical orb-weavers, whose diversity, currently at 11 species, is grossly underestimated. Most species build large webs at forest edges, clearings, and gardens, but in Madagascar, probably the hot spot of Caerostris diversity, at least one species occupies a unique ecological niche: casting its web across streams, rivers and lakes, so that the orb is suspended above water and attached to substrate on each riverbank via bridgelines up to 25 m. Here, we summarize current knowledge on Caerostris natural history, and specifically focus on the remarkable web architecture and biology of the newly described Caerostris darwini n. sp. Darwin's bark spider builds its web, a regular orb suspended above water, and maintains it with daily reinforcing of bridgelines and renewal of orb for many days. Web size ranged from 900-28,000 cm, with the largest measured web of about 2.8 m being the largest orb ever measured, to our knowledge. With anchor lines capable of bridging over 25 m, it also builds the longest webs among all spidersa unique form of web gigantism. We report on mass capture of ephemeropteran prey items in C. darwini n. sp. webs during a single day. Webs contained up to 32 mayflies that were subsequently wrapped en masse before the spider fed on them. We also provide the first evidence of kleptoparasitism in these webs both by other spiders (Argyrodinae) and by newly documented, undescribed symbiotic flies. Caerostris display extreme sexual size dimorphism with large females and small males, which is manifested in enigmatic sexual behaviors such as mate guarding, male-male aggressiveness, genital mutilation, mate plugging, and self castration. Caerostris is thus a promising candidate for evolutionary studies, and its diversity, biology, and phylogenetic relationships all deserve a closer scrutiny.
3706217| The harvestman Ilhaia cuspidata was studied in Curitiba, state of Paran, Brazil. The site studied is a 30,000 m
3706229|The taxonomic status of two closely related species of Latrodectus, L. mactans and L. hesperus, has been debated for many years. Based on morphological characteristics and genitalia, some workers consider them as valid species and others as subspecies. This study was conducted to determine whether the internal transcribed spacers 2 (ITS2) of rDNA exhibit sequence differences between the two taxa that could delineate their taxonomic relationship. Individuals of L. mactans and L. hesperus from six populations were collected and identified based on morphological characteristics. The ITS2 rDNA of nine individuals was sequenced and analyzed. Results indicate that the minimal differences present in the ITS2 sequences are taxonomically insignificant.
3706380| The wolf spider, Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844), shows effective antipredator responses in the presence of chemotactile cues (silk and excreta) from a larger wolf spider, Hogna helluo (Walckenaer 1837). We examined the influence of these substratum-borne cues on male P. milvina courtship and copulatory behavior. Forty-one pairs of adult virgin male and female P. milvina were placed on substrates with or without silk and excreta from an adult female H. helluo. Using behavioral observation software (Noldus Observer 4.1), we recorded time until courtship, courtship duration, and intensity (leg raise and body shake rates). We also measured the total number of matings, the duration of each mating, and the number and rate of successful and failed palpal insertions. While we found no difference between treatments in mating success, courtship intensity or duration, there were significant increases in time until courtship and significant decreases in palpal insertion rates under predation risk. Males under predation risk also had significantly more failed palpal insertions than males not under risk. Results suggest that predation risk has a relatively minor impact on courtship displays and mating success, but could potentially impact mate searching, sperm transfer efficiency, or copulatory courtship. 
24365278|Spiders exhibit a remarkable variety of reproductive phenotypes such as induced parthenogenesis and reproductive skew in primary sex ratio. However, observations of distorted sex ratios are mainly inferred from field catches of adult individuals, whereas detailed information on clutch primary sex ratio and sex ratio inheritance, resulting from multiple generations of laboratory rearing, is scarce. One of the potential causes of sex ratio variation is infection with maternally inherited endosymbiont bacteria that alter a mother's offspring sex ratio to increase their own fitness. Although studies show that spiders are infected with several endosymbiont species, it was only recently discovered that endosymbiont bacteria can cause a female sex ratio bias in this order. To explore the distribution of biased sex ratios and endosymbiont infection patterns, we investigated sex ratio variation and bacterial presence in Oedothorax retusus Westring 1851. Significant sex ratio variation was detected in six matrilines originating from wild-caught females, one of which consistently showed a female bias in offspring production. Congruent with a bacterial effect, the sex ratio bias showed a clear maternal inheritance, and treatment with antibiotics reversed the sex ratio to equal numbers of males and females. Female-biased clutches were found to exhibit a significantly lower number of hatched spiderlings than unbiased clutches, suggesting the occurrence of male-killing. All matrilines showed infection with the Cardinium endosymbiont, while two matrilines, including the female biased one, were additionally infected with Wolbachia and Rickettsia. These findings indicate that bacterial endosymbionts are responsible for the sex ratio variation in this species, and suggest that effects of endosymbiont bacteria in the order Araneae could be more widespread than previously assumed.
3706040| The females of Anelosimus dubiosus Keyserling 1891 and Anelosimus jabaquara Levi 1956 are described and illustrated based on specimens collected in Jundia, So Paulo, Brazil. 
3705419|A new species, Chrosiothes jenningsi, is described. The presence of this species in West Virginia is remarkable because other members of the genus Chrosiothes are limited to the American Southwest, Mexico, and the Neotropics. The morphology of this new species is compared and contrasted with its close relatives, C. jocosus and C. tonala.
25067826|Parental care in harvestmen may take several forms including egg hiding, egg guarding, egg transport and young guarding. In most species, one adult, usually the female, performs guarding of the young. From 9 July-3 August 2005, we made observations of parental care by adults of the Neotropical cranaid harvestman Phareicranaus calcariferus (Simon 1879) in northern and central Trinidad. Nine observations involved an adult female and young while three appeared to include both an adult female and male with young. The number of young present was inversely related to the size of the young, indicating that parental care in this species may occur over an extended period of time.
23610234|In the lycosoid spiders, the secondary eyes possess a grate-shaped tapetum lucidum that reflects light, causing eyeshine when these spiders are viewed with approximately coaxial illumination. This guanine-based reflective surface is thought to increase visual capabilities in low light. We explored the eyeshine of the posterior medial eye in eight taxa of pisaurid and lycosid spiders. The taxa included four pisaurids: Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz 1844, D. triton (Walckenaer 1837), D. scriptus Hentz 1845 and D. vittatus Walckenaer 1837; and four lycosids: Gladicosa pulchra (Keyserling 1877), Hogna sp. (cf. Lycosa lenta (Hentz 1844) sensu Wallace 1942), Rabidosa punctulata (Hentz 1844) and Varacosa avara (Keyserling 1877). We found that there were significant family- and species-level differences in both the reflected spectra and the intensity of reflection. Although the peaks of the reflected spectra were in the green range for all spiders, the mean peak was further toward the blue end of the spectrum for the lycosids than for the pisaurids. Variation among species (about 54% of the total variation) was dominated by G. pulchra (Lycosidae) and D. vittatus (Pisauridae), both of whose spectra peaked near yellow, vs. V. avara (Lycosidae), whose spectra peaked to the blue side of green. The lycosid spiders showed overall brighter eyeshine. However, when corrected for their larger eyes, the lycosid spiders' reflections were dimmer for their eye size than were those of the pisaurid spiders. These results demonstrate that the reflective qualities of the tapeta, and perhaps the absorptive qualities of other tissues and media that the light must traverse, vary widely among lycosoid spiders. This variation may signal both functional differences in visual capabilities and interesting developmental or selective histories within this clade.
23048790|We investigated the trophic strategy of Mexcala elegans Peckham & Peckham 1903, an ant-eating salticid spider from South Africa, in order to gain baseline information concerning the evolution of prey specialization. We studied its natural prey, prey acceptance, and choice using a variety of prey species. In its natural habitat, the spider captured only ants, mainly its mimetic model Camponotus cinctellus, indicating that the species is a stenophagous ant-eater. However, in the laboratory, M. elegans captured 12 different invertebrate taxa with efficiency similar to the capture of ants, suggesting that it is euryphagous. For the capture of ants but not for other prey, it used a specialized prey-capture behavior. In prey-choice experiments, the spiders did not prefer ants to flies. We found no evidence for neural and behavioral constraints related to identification and handling of prey. Our results suggest that M. elegans is a euryphagous specialist using a specialized ant-eating capture strategy in which prey specialization has evolved as a byproduct of risk aversion ("enemy-free space" hypothesis).
3705652| Matrices of the frequency of patterns of agonistic behavior of adult female Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris throughout intra-individual sequences were analyzed by means of an analysis of variance. Behavior differences were analyzed with regard to two factors: female size and previous occupation of the burrow. Results show that females use different tactics of agonistic behavior, depending on their previous occupation of the burrow, regardless of the relative size differences. /// Mediante un anlisis de varianza aplicado a las matrices de frecuencia de las pautas en las secuencias intraindividuales de comportamiento agonstico, hemos analizado las diferencias en el comportamiento de las hembras adultas de Lycosa tarentula fasciiventris con respecto a dos variables: el tamao y la ocupacin previa del nido. Nuestros resultados indican que las hembras utilizan diferentes tcticas de comportamiento agonstico segn su ocupacin previa del nido, e independientemente de su tamao relativo. 
3705007|Pitfall traps of four types were used at three woodland sites over twelve months in an empirical study of the effect of trap efficiency in describing species composition of spider communities. There was a certain degree of agreement between trap-types in terms of seasonal variations and relative numbers of species and of individuals at the three sites. Due to the different responses of the various species, distortions were evident in the communities' species frequency curves. This was significantly apparent at one of the sites and less so at the others. The more "efficient" methods used here captured disproportionately more species in relation to the greater number of individuals. The probability of analogous distortions in data from other sampling methods is discussed.
23610279|To the extent that sperm production or mating opportunities are limited, males are expected to allocate their sperm optimally, so as to increase their overall fitness. Among spiders, sperm depletion and monogyny are known to be optimal male mating decisions either under strong sperm competition or as terminal investment strategies, when future mating opportunities are limited. In a medium-sized wolf spider, Hogna radiata (Latreille 1817), we investigated sperm depletion, terminal sperm investment and the potential for sperm competition in laboratory mating trials in which we allowed males and females to pair sequentially with two mates. Males mated with as many females as they encountered. We found no evidence of sperm depletion or terminal sperm investment, as mating duration and female fitness were unaffected by male mating history or age. Polyandry was rare and did not involve any clear fitness benefit to females, whereas premating sexual cannibalism was a rather common outcome of mating interactions involving inseminated females. Our results indicate that H. radiata males are not sperm limited and support the hypothesis that the potential for sperm competition shapes the evolution of sperm allocation in this species. Monandrous females do not incur any fitness cost and could potentially benefit from cannibalizing their prospective mates.
3705787|The behavior used by Modisimus sp. to construct its domed sheet web is more stereotyped and organized than is apparent from the finished structure. A simple program involving attaching the non-sticky dragline to the substrate beyond the previous limits of the web, and then filling in the newly formed angle is probably used to construct the skeleton sheet and the tangle above it. A set of sticky lines is then laid, filling in this sheet. Construction behavior resembles that of orb weavers in commencing with a skeleton scaffold of non-sticky lines which is then filled in with other non-sticky lines, in adding sticky lines after the support structure of non-sticky lines is complete, and in being organized around a central area.
3706072| The aim of this study was to provide descriptive and quantitative data regarding behaviors involved in courtship and in sperm transfer of the whip spider Phrynus gervaisii (Pocock 1894) in order to complete the previous description for this same species given by P. Weygoldt. The specimens were captured in anthills of Paraponera clavata, on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Ten courtship and five sperm transfer sequences were recorded. Four out of five mating sequences with sperm transfer ocurred between adults with similar body size and in the other case the female was smaller than the male. Sexual interactions did not occur between very small adults. Two male behavior patterns that have not been reported were observed during the initial stage of courtship: "pedipalp rubbing" and "female operculum rubbing". Contrary to Weygoldt's description, in this study the female never performed "shaking" movements with her antenniform legs. It was observed that the two distal horn-like extensions of the spermatophore facilitate the females movements during the sperm transfer. The distal part of the spermatophore stalk provides a suspension area when the female rests on those horns. It was verified that the female can move the claw-like sclerites of the gonopods in all directions. The male executed copulatory courtship and successfully transferred sperm in five analyzed sequences. The female did not pick up the sperm packages when copulatory courtship was not performed. Males that lacked one antenniform leg were able to mate, however they had to perform vibrations more intensely with their non-injured leg for a longer duration. The data are compared with those previously obtained in other whip spiders. Some functional characteristics of the spermatophore and female genitalia of P. gervaisii are also discussed. /// El objetivo de este trabajo es aportar datos descriptivos y cuantitativos sobre patrones de comportamiento que ocurren durante el cortejo y transferencia espermtica del amblipgido Phrynus gervaisii (Pocock 1894) con la finalidad de completar la descripcin previa de P. Weygoldt para esta misma especie. Los especmenes fueron capturados en hormigeros de Paraponera clavata, en la Isla de Barro Colorado, Panam. Se registraron 10 secuencias de cortejo y cinco de transferencia espermtica. Cuatro de las cinco secuencias de apareamiento con transferencia espermtica completa ocurrieron entre adultos de tamao corporal similar mientras que en el otro caso la hembra fue ms pequea que el macho. No se produjeron interacciones sexuales entre adultos muy pequeos. Durante la etapa inicial del cortejo fueron observados dos patrones de comportamiento masculinos que no haban sido citados con anterioridad: "roces de pedipalpos" y "roces al oprculo genital femenino". Al contrario de la descripcin de Weygoldt, en el presente estudio la hembra nunca realiz movimientos de "latigueo" con sus patas anteniformes. Se observ que las dos expansiones distales con forma de cuerno del espermatforo facilitan los movimientos de la hembra durante la transferencia espermtica. La parte distal del tallo del espermatforo ofrece un rea de suspensin cuando la hembra se apoya sobre estos cuernos. Se verific que la hembra puede mover los escleritos en form de ua de sus gonpodos hacia todas las direcciones. El macho efectu cortejo copulatorio en cinco secuencias analizadas, en ellas la transferencia espermtica fue existosa. Por el contrario, la hembra no recogi los paquetes espermticos cuando no existi cortejo copulatorio. Los machos que carecan de una pata anteniforme tambin fueron capaces de aparear. Sin embargo, ellos tuvieron que realizar ms intensamente las vibraciones con sus patas no daadas, y sobre todo durante un tiempo ms prolongado para evitar que la hembra se alejara. Se comparan los datos aqu registrados con aquellos previamente obtenidos en otros amblipgidos. Se discuten algunas caractersticas funcionales del espermatforo y genitalia femenina de P. gervaisii. 
3706285| Pardosa species do not overwinter in the adult stage in the Holarctic region, therefore penultimate instars should avoid precocious maturation in autumn. We tested how artificially increased temperature and/or lengthened light regime would affect the pre-overwintering development of two common species with different phenological patterns. Juvenile instars of Pardosa agrestis (Westring 1861) and P. hortensis (Thorell 1872) were collected in autumn from the field. The experimental spiders were held either indoor at 26 C or outdoors at ambient temperature and were exposed either to short or to long daylength. Molting events were monitored for five months. At outdoor temperatures no spiders reached adulthood and molts of younger instars occurred more frequently at long daylength. In the indoor temperature groups all P. hortensis and the majority of P. agrestis individuals reached adulthood during the experiment. Long daylength treatment enhanced the effect of increased temperature by almost halving the time needed to reach adulthood in both species. Penultimate instars of both species needed at least 17 days to molt, while earlier instars, present only in P. agrestis, responded rapidly to higher temperature by molting. This stage dependent response suggests that earlier instars can use favorable autumnal temperatures to catch up with penultimate instars which leads to higher synchrony of developmental stages in the overwintering and spring populations. 
3706133| The new species Brachistosternus paulae is described. This is the southernmost species of the genus, occurring in southern Patagonia in Santa Cruz Province. It can be distinguished from all the other species of the genus by the presence of only 4 ventral trichobothria on the pedipalpal chela, and by the shape of the hemispermatophore, in which the cylindrical apophysis is shorter than the laminar apophysis; all internal spines are absent, except for the row of spines, which in some specimens is vestigial. This species can not be included in any of the known subgenera due to its trichobothrial pattern; nevertheless it is closer to the subgenus Leptosternus on the basis of its remaining morphology. A key for the species of the genus in the country is provided together with some data on them. The hemispermatophores of the three subgenera are compared and two maps detailing the distribution of the species in the country are provided. /// El gnero Brachistosternus en la Argentina, con la descripcin de una nueva especie de la Patagonia (Scorpiones, Bothriuridae). En este trabajo se describe a Brachistosternus paulae n. sp. Esta es la especie conocida ms austral del gnero, habitando en el sur de la Patagonia en la provincia de Santa Cruz. Puede diferenciarse del resto de las especies del gnero por la presencia de solo 4 tricobotrias ventrales en la pinza y por el escaso desarrollo de su hemiespermatforo, en ste la apfisis cilndrica se encuentra poco desarrollada y es ms corta que la apfisis laminar, adems carece de todos los procesos espiniformes, salvo las espinas en hilera que en algunos ejemplares pueden presentarse en forma vestigial; la particular tricobotriotaxia de esta especie no permite incluirla en ninguno de los subgneros descriptos hasta el momento, sin embargo su morfologa la aproxima ms al subgnero Leptosternus. Se presenta adems una clave para las especies del gnero en el pas y se aportan algunos datos sobre stas. Se comparan los hemiespermatforos de los distintos subgneros y se presentan dos mapas con la distribucin de las distintas especies presentes en el pas. 
3705150| Cupiennius salei Keys. was collected in the highlands of central Gautemala near Cobn (departamento Alta Verapaz). It was found mostly on agaves and on banana plants in coffee plantations near the tropical rain forest. The favorite retreat is at the base of agaves and behind the trough-shaped basal parts of banana leaf sheaths. Showing pronounced rhythmicity in its diurnal locomotor activity, the spider leaves its retreat after dusk to hunt; cockroaches and earwigs were the animals most frequently preyed upon. Included is an account of recent research on this species and of the geographic range and taxonomic placements assigned to it in the literature. 
23070790|Jumping spiders (Salticidae) are known for having good eyesight, but the extent to which they also rely on olfaction is poorly understood. We report here new information on the olfactory abilities of the salticid genus Portia. We investigated for the first time the ability of adult males and females of four Portia species (P. africana, P. schultzi, P. fimbriata and P. labiata) to discriminate between mate and non-mate odor. In a Y-shape olfactometer, males of all four species chose the odor from an opposite-sex conspecific significantly more often than they chose a no-odor control, but the number of males that chose the odor from an opposite-sex heterospecific or the odor from a same-sex conspecific was not significantly different from the number of males that chose the control. The number of female test spiders that chose the odor from an opposite-sex conspecific or the odor from a same-sex conspecific was not significantly different from the number of females that chose the control. The implications of these findings for understanding Portia's mating system are discussed.
23610280|The study of courtship behavior provides a useful tool for identifying cryptic species due to the qualitative differences that can be observed in closely related species. Here, we present an overview of visual courtship displays of 26 European species of the genus Pardosa C.L. Koch 1847, including new quantitative and qualitative data. Thirty-five recurring courtship elements are described and illustrated by means of drawings, photos and videos (available online). In general terms, complex movements of the palps, the first pair of legs and the abdomen characterize courtship displays in the genus Pardosa. The most complex movements are performed by the palps, while legs and abdomen mainly oscillate in the air or vibrate on the substrate. We noticed a high level of complexity in almost all of the species, both in terms of sensory modes involved and number of courtship elements composing the displays. No apparent relationships emerged when considering ethological similarities among species, attesting to the relative independence between morphological and ethological characters.
3705866|Spiders of 17 families, 53 genera, and 87 species were captured in pitfall traps (n = 45 traps/year) placed in lowbush blueberry fields in Washington County, Maine, during the summers of 1986 and 1987. Species and numbers of hunting spiders (Lycosidae, Gnaphosidae, Thomisidae) were numerically dominant. Significantly more (ANOVA, G-tests) spiders were captured in 1987 than in 1986. Sex ratios were highly biased toward males both years. Species richness, diversity, and evenness of trapped spiders varied among three blueberry cultural treatments (mowing, burning, bearing crop). In 1986, richness and diversity were greatest in crop bearing fields, with spiders more evenly distributed in burned fields. In 1987, species richness, diversity, and evenness were greatest in burned fields. Over all weeks in 1986, there were no significant differences (ANOVA, DMRT) in mean numbers of individuals or species captured among treatments. Significant differences in mean catches among treatments were observed on one of nine sampling dates in 1986. Greater variation was seen in 1987 for both individuals and species; significant differences in mean catches among treatments were noted on six of 12 sampling dates. Percentage similarity (PS) of species quantities among treatments was > 60; PS values were greater in 1986 than in 1987. The blueberry-spider fauna had more species in common (QS) with terrestrial habitats than arboreal habitats in Maine.
3705834|Ground surface populations of scorpions, uropygids, pseudoscorpions, solifugids, opilionids, mites, and ticks were studied for two years using pitfall traps and herp arrays set in twelve sandhill communities throughout Florida. Three species of pseudoscorpions, 1 species each of uropygids, solifugids, and scorpions, 5 species of opilionids, and 2 species of ticks were collected. A total of 474 mites were collected. Abundance of pseudoscorpions, uropygids, and acari were significantly correlated with the total mass of plant litter.
23610252|This study used radioimmunoassay (RIA) to explore the relationship between levels of hemolymph ecdysteroids and female reproductive behavior in Schizocosa wolf spiders. Specifically, we investigated the relationship between circulating ecdysteroid concentrations in females and 1) likelihood to copulate, or female receptivity [Experiment I Schizocosa avida (Walckenaer 1837)], 2) time post copulation (Experiment 2 Schizocosa rovneri Uetz & Dondale 1979) and 3) exposure to conspecific male courtship (Experiment 3 Schizocosa uetzi Stratton 1997). In Experiment 1, we expected higher levels of circulating ecdysteroids in receptive versus unreceptive females, based upon prior research demonstrating an increase in receptivity following injections of 20-hydroexyedysone (e.g., Tegenaria atrica C.L. Koch 1843). In contrast, we found no relationship between female receptivity and ecdysteroid levels. Our second experiment compared ecdysteroid levels in mated versus virgin females at three time points following mating trials (24 h, 7 d and 14 d). We predicted low and constant ecdysteroid levels, independent of both mating status and time post mating trialour results support this prediction. Our third experiment explored the relationship between exposure to conspecific courtship and ecdysteroid levels; again, we found no relationship. Thus, circulating ecdysteroid concentrations were not associated with any aspect of reproductive biology we explored. However, we found a negative trend between female age post maturation and circulating ecdysteroid concentration in the species for which we had the greatest age range, consistent with its role as a molting hormone.
23048793|The natural diets of many terrestrial predators such as spiders have yet to be investigated. In this study, I analyzed the diet of a web-building spider, Latrodectus hesperus Chamberlin & Ivie (1935), over one year in a natural habitat of coastal British Columbia, Canada. This is the first study to document the natural diet of L. hesperus over several months. I identified and measured 1599 prey items collected from L. hesperus webs and web sites between January and December. Spiders fed on ground-active prey from eight different orders of arthropods. Coleoptera and Hymenoptera were the predominant prey of L. hesperus in this habitat, combinely accounting for > 85% of the total prey catches and biomass. The other prey orders included, in order of abundance, Isopoda, Araneae, Dermaptera, Orthoptera, Lepidoptera and Diptera. Spiders captured prey mostly between May and October, when females oviposit, juveniles grow, and prey are most active. These results show that L. hesperus is a polyphagous predator that feeds primarily on prey from two orders of insects.
3705791|Three new species of the genera Isaloides, Misumenoides and Tmarus from the Cape Region, Baja California Sur, are described and illustrated.
3705334|The diagnosis of the genus Illinichernes Hoff is revised and a new species, Illinichernes stephensi, is described from tree hollows in western Oregon; the first Oregon state records are reported for Acuminochernes crassopalpus (Hoff), Dendrochernes crassus Hoff, Dinocheirus sicarius Chamberlin, D. validus (Banks), Hesperochernes utahensis Hoff and Clawson, and Lustrochernes grossus (Banks), and Lamprochernes sp. These are the first published records from Oregon for the chernetid family.
3706295|The Chinese psechrid spiders of the genera Fecenia and Psechrus are reviewed. The species Fecenia hainanensis is newly synonymized with F. cylindrata. The species P. mimus is considered a nomen dubium. The species P. senoculata is regarded as a valid species. The male is newly described for P. tingpingensis. Three new species are described: P. jinggangensis new species, P. rani new species, and P. taiwanensis new species. In all, nine psechrid species are recognized from China. The spinnerets, trichobothria, and tarsal organ morphology of P. tingpingensis are presented. A key to Chinese Psechrus species is also provided.
3705961|Sinopoda new genus (Araneae, Sparassidae, Heteropodinae) is described from Asia. It is recognizable only from genital characters. At present, the new genus comprises 25 species from Japan, Korea, China, Thailand, Malaysia and east India. Heteropoda campanacea, H. forcipata, H. hamata, H. koreana, H. licenti, H. marsupia (?), H. minschana, H. serrata, H. shennonga, H. stellata and Panaretidius microphthalmus are placed in Sinopoda new genus. Relationships to other heteropodine genera are discussed.
40233841|Segestria florentina (Rossi 1790) (Segestriidae) displays iridescent green coloration on the paturons of the chelicerae. This was confirmed by reflectance measurements, which gave a spectral peak at 505 nm. Scanning electron microscopy did not identify cuticular surface scales or sculpturing, suggesting that the cause of the iridescence was subsurface. Transmission electron microscopy revealed 86 alternate dark and light layers in the exocuticle, the mean dimensions of which were 126 nm  28 nm and 88 nm  55 nm respectively. The identity of each layer was initially unclear. However, by using a combination of materials with different refractive indices in calculations of theoretical reflectance spectra, we concluded that they were most likely to be composed of chitin and air, since a peak of 480 nm was obtained, which most closely matched that which was recorded. The function of the green color is not clear, since S. florentina has relatively poor vision and relies predominantly on vibratory and acoustic signals. The study provides useful information relevant to research into the evolution of structural colors in spiders and, more generally, in nature.
25067835|A systematic review of some Australasian species previously allocated to the chernetid genus Sundochernes Beier 1932 reveals numerous discrepancies from the type species, S. modiglianii (Ellingsen 1911). Three of these species are removed to the genus Troglochernes Beier 1969, previously known from only a single troglobitic species, and a fourth is removed to a new genus. Troglochernes contains six species: the type species T. imitans Beier 1969 from caves on the Nullarbor Plain, Western Australia; three species newly transferred from Sundochernes, T. guanophilus (Beier 1967) new combination, from Fig Tree Cave, New South Wales, T. dewae (Beier 1967) new combination, from bird nests in New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia, T. novaeguineae (Beier 1965) new combination, from central Papua New Guinea; and two new species, T. cruciatus Volschenk, new species from Rope Ladder Cave, North East Queensland and T. omorgus Harvey & Volschenk, new species from a beetle in Queensland. The Lord Howe Island endemic pseudoscorpion Sundochernes grayi Beier 1975 is transferred to a new genus, Satrapanus Harvey & Volschenk, as it lacks the diagnostic features of Sundochernes. Problems with the generic allocation of species currently placed within Sundochernes are discussed and the female genitalia of Nesochernes gracilis Beier 1932 and Paraustrochernes victorianus Beier 1966 are illustrated for the first time. Troglochernes imitans is one of the most highly modified troglobitic members of the Chernetidae, displaying extremely elongate pedipalps and legs suggesting an extended period of isolation from ancestral epigean populations. The remaining cave-dwelling species, T. cruciatus and T. guanophilus, are less modified and show fewer morphological modifications which may suggest more recent colonization of the cave environments.
3706206|The ability of Habrocestum pulex, a myrmecophagic jumping spider, to detect olfactory and contact chemical cues from ants was investigated experimentally. When given a choice between walking over clean soil or soil that had housed ants, H. pulex spent significantly more time on ant-treated soil. However, H. pulex did not appear to discriminate between clean blotting paper and blotting paper over which ants had walked. In tests using a Y-shaped olfactometer, when given a choice between an experimental arm containing air from a cage containing ants, or 6-methyl-5-hepten-2-one, and a control arm containing clean air, H. pulex moved into the experimental arm significantly more frequently than the control arm. When on soil that had previously housed ants, agitated walking, undirected leaping, posturing with body raised, and perching on top of corks were each significantly more prevalent than when H. pulex was on clean soil. Chemical cues left by ants on soil also affected H. pulex's attention to visual cues from ants: when on treated soil, H. pulex initiated and completed stalking sequences more often, and after shorter latency, than when on control soil.
3705710| A study of entire/divided tarsal scopulae distribution was carried out on 28 genera of Theraphosinae. Although this character has been considered an important taxonomic tool for more than a century, present findings show that the scopula condition is related to spider size. These results call into question the systematic value of tarsal scopula division. Fine structure of theraphosid scopula is described, being different from that previously described for Araneomorphae. Function and phylogeny of scopula condition are discussed. /// Se realiz un estudio de la distribucin del carcter escpulas tarsales enteras/divididas en 28 gneros de Theraphosinae. A pesar de que dicho carcter fue considerado importante en taxonoma durante ms de un siglo, los resultados mostraron que la condicin de la escpula est relacionada con el tamao de la araa. Estos resultados permiten cuestionar el valor sistemtico de la condicin de las escpulas. Se describe la estructura de la escpula de las terafsidas, encontrndose diferencias con las escpulas descriptas previamente para las Araneomorphae. Se discute la funcin y filogenia de los tipos de escpula. 
3705098|Life history studies on scorpions have taken various approaches. The theoretical method uses a progression factor of 1.26 in linear dimensions at each molt to predict the number of molts required by young scorpions of known instar to reach adult size. The direct empirical approach consists of raising scorpions to maturity in captivity. The indirect approach is based on morphometric analyses of field caught samples, and assumes that discrete size classes can be recognized and interpreted as representing the various instars. The mixed approach uses extrapolation to predict maturity from the results of a partial life history. The reliability of the various approaches is evaluated (a) by analyzing the life history of Vaejovis coahuilae Williams, and (b) by reviewing the results of all prior life history studies on scorpions.
3705184|Sixty-eight species not recorded from the southern New England region in the 1948 monograph (Kaston, 1948) are now included. References are cited to all revisions of all taxa included in the work, and to all other papers which may give additional biological and natural history data for any of the spiders included here. The major contribution consists of giving the new names and additional information for those species where recent studies have shown the necessity for change, either because they are synonyms, or have been moved to a different genus.
25434306|Ten theraphosid spiders of the genera Citharognathus Pocock 1895, Haplopelma Simon 1892, Chilobrachys Karsch 1891, Yamia Kishida 1920 and Selenocosmia Ausserer 1871 from China are described, including four new species, namely Selenocosmia xinping sp. nov., S. jiafu sp. nov., S. xinhuaensis sp. nov., and Chilobrachys liboensis sp. nov. Plesiophrictus guangxiensis is transferred to the genus Chilobrachys. Additionally, the species Chilobrachys jingzhao Zhu, Song & Li, 2001 is newly synonymized with Chilobrachys guangxiensis (Yin & Tan 2000).
3706169|A new Stylocellus from Singapore, the smallest species of the genus, is described and fully illustrated. The family Stylocellidae is rediagnosed and emended to include the representatives of the genera Miopsalis and Fangensis based on the results of a phylogenetic analysis of the cyphophthalmid genera (Giribet & Boyer 2002).
25067865|Spiders of the family Prodidomidae are widely distributed and at least three synanthropic species have been reported. In this work we present the first record of Zimiris doriai Simon 1882 from Brazil, appartently introduced accidentally, with specimens recorded in urban areas in the states of Amazonas, Bahia, and Sergipe. /// As aranhas da famlia Prodidomidae apresentam ampla distribuio geogrfica e possuem pelo menos trs espcies sinantrpicas. Neste trabalho, apresentamos o primeiro registro de Zimiris doriai Simon 1882 para o Brasil, como um caso de introduo acidental, a partir de espcimes encontrados em reas urbanas dos estados do Amazonas, Bahia, e Sergipe.
3705943|Members of two apparently conspecific Deinopis populations from southern Costa Rica perform backward (aerial) strikes (in response to vocalizations and vibrating tuning forks) and forward strikes (to capture ambulatory prey). At daybreak these spiders quickly shift from foraging to cryptic behavior. This cryptic behavior, which is described and illustrated in detail, involves camouflage on a linear plant structure and/or stick mimicry. Body form, fringes of setae, palpal tarsus and claw shape, and color pattern all enhance the effectiveness of these cryptic behaviors.
3705576| Female Lycosa ceratiola, most of whom were gravid when collected in March in Florida, contained significantly less water than males (2.24 versus 2.88 mg water/mg dry mass, representing 69 and 74% of wet mass, respectively). Both sexes had similar amounts of hemolymph in their bodies (32.4% of wet mass in females and 37.3% in males). The density of hemolymph in male and female spiders at 22-24 C averaged 1.00 mg/l. These results suggest that egg production in female spiders affects their total water content, most likely because ripening eggs gain energy-rich lipids at the expense of water. Two commonly used water content indices, which express water mass as a proportion of either wet or dry body mass, are evaluated. 
3706157|This is the third paper in a series on the jumping spiders (Araneae, Salticidae) of the Pacific Islands. It includes the genera Cytaea, Hasarius, Menemerus, Pseudicius, Sobasina, and the new genera Lakarobius and Xenocytaea. It describes 19 new species: Cytaea carolinensis, C. koronivia, C. nausori, C. ponapensis, C. rai and C. vitiensis; Lakarobius alboniger; Sobasina aspinosa, S. coriacea, S. cutleri, S. magna, S. platypoda, S. yapensis and S. paradoxa; Xenocytaea daviesae, X. triramosa, X. anomala, X. maddisoni and X. zabkai. Pseudicius samoaensis is synonymized with P. kraussi. A key to the species of Sobasina is provided. Types of all new species are deposited in the Bishop Museum (BPBM) in Honolulu, Hawaii, except for S. cutleri which is in the American Museum of Natural History in New York.
24717280|The size and shape of the glue droplets along the spiral threads of orb webs play an important role in web function. Despite this, methods for estimating droplet volume are not well defined, with contradicting formulas published. Here we address the discrepancies in the published formulas with a mathematical derivation that assumes that a glue droplet conforms to a parabola along one side of the axial line. We confirmed the validity of our derived formula by comparing it with the results of numerical integration. We also document that a droplet continues to conform to a parabola as its volume changes with environmental humidity. Our formula can be applied simply by collecting the spiral threads, examining the droplets under a light microscope and measuring their length and width, making it easy to compare the droplets of different species collected at different relative humidities.
20788620|A new species of montane scorpion is described from the Sierra Madre Occidental of Mexico. The species is morphologically similar to scorpions distributed throughout the "sky island" region of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico and is a member of the "vorhiesi" subgroup of the Vaejovis "mexicanus" group. The morphology of the new species is compared to that of "vorhiesi" subgroup taxa, and biogeographic hypotheses about the diversification of this group are provided.
25067820|A new species of Lycosidae, Trebacosa europaea, is described from male specimens collected within reed beds of Lake Velencei from Hungary. The species represents the Palearctic sister species of the Nearctic Trebacosa marxi (Stone 1890), and occurs in a very specialized habitat of Phragmitetum communis.
3705081|Life histories and distribution patterns were reconstructed from random vacuum samples of coexistent populations of nine species of hunting spiders in an Ontario meadow. The populations of Pardosa saxatilis (Hentz), Pirata minutus Emerton, Schizocosa avida (Walckenaer), S. heasmani Dondale, and S. crassipalpis (Emerton) had annual life histories, and matured, mated, and oviposited in the spring or early summer. Xysticus pellax (O. Pickard-Cambridge) and X. gulosus Keyserling were also annual, but matured and mated in late summer or early autumn, and oviposited the following spring. X. discursans Keyserling was biennial, and matured and reproduced in the spring. Lycosa frondicola Emerton was also biennial, but matured in late summer and reproduced the following spring. Most of the nine species were more densely represented in the lower, moister part of the meadow, whereas S. heasmani, individuals of which are very similar in anatomy to those of S. avida, was more densely represented on the higher, dryer part, and the adults of L. frondicola kept largely to the edge of the meadow nearest the forest.
25654011|The new genus Agnostopelma Prez-Miles & Weinmann is proposed for the type species A. tota n. sp. and A. gardel n. sp. from Boyac, Colombia. Agnostopelma build shelters under stones at high elevation. The new genus is unusual in lacking tarsal scopulae on its posterior legs and in having few labial cuspules and short leg tarsi in females.
20788636|Female lycosids carry their egg sacs on their spinnerets until spiderlings emerge but spiders are occasionally found carrying shells, dirt, or other objects on their spinnerets, suggesting recognition errors can occur. We investigated some proximate cues that may influence egg sac recognition and discrimination in the wolf spider Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844). We tested the ability of female P. milvina to discriminate among egg sacs based on size, texture, and contrast. We also tested the ability of P. milvina to discriminate between its own or a conspecific's egg sac, and the ability to discriminate between an egg sac that had just been removed and an egg sac that was removed seven days earlier. When given a choice, females significantly chose their own egg sac over plastic beads of equal mass, preferred large plastic beads equal in mass to an egg sac over small plastic beads, round over faceted beads, and showed a non-significant tendency to attach black rather than white beads of equal mass. When given a choice between two conspecific egg sacs, spiders more often rejected those that had been removed from the mother seven days earlier than those that had been freshly removed. Spiders were unable to recognize their own egg sacs versus a conspecific's. Although spiders recognize egg sacs from non-egg sacs based on mass, texture, and presumably odor when given the choice, acceptance of non-egg sacs was common when no real egg sac was available. Also, females would not reattach their own egg sac once an artificial one had been attached. Attachment of any object on the spinnerets apparently ceases searching or attachment behavior.
3706194| The tiny caddid harvestman Acropsopilio chomulae (Goodnight & Goodnight 1948), from Chiapas, Mexico, has been known only from the immature holotype. Mature females are described from specimens taken near the type locality. The absence of spermathecae in the ovipositor makes it likely that the species is parthenogenic. Hasta el momento, los nicos datos disponibles del pequeo opilin Acropsopilio chomulae (Goodnight & Goodnight 1948) de Chiapas (Mxico) proceden del estudio del holotipo, un ejemplan inmaduro. En este trabajo se describen hembras maduras procedentes de cerca de localidad tipica. La ausencia de espermateca en el oviscapto sugiere que la especie es partenogentica. 
3705933|The temporal patterns of insertion of male palps, expansion of the hematodocha and duration of copulation are reported for 10 species of Schizocosa Chamberlin 1904, three species of Rabidosa Roewer 1955, one species of Gladicosa Brady 1986, one species of Hogna Simon 1885, two species of Isohogna Roewer 1960, one species of Trochosa C.L. Koch 1848, one species of Geolycosa Montgomery 1904, two species of Arctosa C.L. Koch 1848, three species of Alopecosa Simon 1885 and six species of Pardosa C.L. Koch 1847. In all species of Schizocosa examined so far, males showed a pattern composed of a series of insertions with one palp followed by a switch to the opposite side and a separate series of insertions with the other palp. During each insertion there was a single expansion of the hematodocha. These copulations generally lasted from 1-4 hours. Males of Gladicosa bellamyi (Gertsch & Wallace 1937) and Hogna georgicola (Walckenaer 1837) likewise showed a series of insertions on one side followed by insertions on the other side, with a single expansion of the hematodocha with each insertion. Males of Arctosa littoralis (Hentz 1844), A. sanctaerosae Gertsch & Wallace 1935 and Geolycosa rogersi Wallace 1942 each copulated by alternating palps with a single insertion and single expansion of the hematodocha. The alternating pattern of insertions was also seen in Rabidosa rabida (Walckenaer 1837), R. hentzi (Banks 1904) and R. punctulata (Hentz 1844). Isohogna lenta (Hentz 1844) (a single individual) alternated between multiple expansions of the hematodocha during one insertion and alternating sides with a single insertion and expansion per side. A second member of Isohogna showed a single insertion on one side with multiple expansions of the hematodocha. Comparisons with published descriptions of copulatory pattern suggest that Schizocosa and Trochosa Koch 1848 may form a monophyletic clade in the "Trochosa group" of the Lycosinae. The copulations that involved multiple insertions of the male's palp on one side with a single expansion per insertion were long copulations (1-4 hours). This may provide for multiple opportunities of in copula courtship. Arctosa copulations were very short (18-46 sec), while the Geolycosa copulations were relatively short (5-7 min). Thus, the copulations of the burrowing spiders were much shorter than the nonburrowing spiders.
23070807|The presence of buds, flowers, and fruits increases structural complexity in plants, but can also attract potential prey for predators, thus determining faunistic composition. To understand how a spider assemblage living in the shrub Byrsonima intermedia (Malpighiaceae) varies with habitat structure in terms of reproductive elements and height of plant, we collected spider specimens and measured bud, flower, fruit, and leaf masses of 44 plants, as well as their height. Spider family composition was found to depend on habitat structure, following a pattern of family turnover occurring along gradients of reproductive plant elements and height, regardless of plant biomass. Theridiidae occurred in samples with the major proportions of buds and flowers, while Oxyopidae occurred only in samples with major proportions of fruits. Multiple linear regression revealed the strong relation between the composition in reproductive plant elements and the composition in families of spiders and a relation between shrub height and spider family composition. These results help us to understand the temporal dynamics between structural complexity of vegetation and spider assemblages, because during plant phenology the proportions of reproductive elements are also varying.
3705920|Four new species of Paratheuma are described from the Cook, Fiji and Tuamotu Islands and Australia. New records of P. armata are presented. Possible relationships among species of the genus are suggested.
3705195| A systematic review of spiders of the family Leptonetidae in North America is presented with analyses of their characters and relationships. Reasons are given for using only two generic names for the 44 taxa of this fauna, most of which are described as new. The subfamily Leptonetinae includes all representatives of the world fauna in which the posterior median eyes are situated far back of the posterior lateral eyes. The genus Leptoneta, which is the basic standard of the family and occurs widely in Palearctica, is considered to include all but three of the American species. Its disjunct distribution in North America makes possible treatment of different faunas of four quite discrete centers of distribution. The largest fauna of 15 species occurs in the southern Appalachian Mountains, includes six epigean species and nine cavernicoles; of the latter one from Georgia is an eyeless troglobite and others have eyes in various stages of reduction. A dozen species from the Edwards Plateau Region of middle Texas and some outlying districts are related to those of Appalachia; one of the nine cavernicoles is eyeless and others have rudimentary eyes. Nine species from eastern Mexico show more morphological variability but differ little in basic features from those from the south-eastern United States; two of them are blind troglobites. The five Californian representatives of Leptoneta are all big-eyed epigean types notable for remarkable, derivative modifications of the male palpi of some. A new genus Archoleptoneta is given subfamily status for various unusual features. The posterior median eyes form a transverse row with the posterior lateral eyes in an eye formula probably reminescent of the ancestral stock of the family. The male palpus presents generalized features of the bulb and especially of the tarsus which lacks a transverse groove present in various degrees of development in the Leptonetinae. Archoleptoneta is an exclusively American group so far known from three species in California, Texas and Chiapas, Mxico. 
20788633|We report the first confirmed cases of harvestmen (Opiliones) feeding upon live vertebrates. In June and July of 2007, in two independent studies of the ecology of Swainson's warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii Audubon) in Arkansas and North Carolina, we recorded predation of nestlings at two separate nests by harvestmen. Both events were nocturnal, involved relatively young and dependent nestlings, and contributed to or resulted in the death of one or more nestlings. One event involved a group of at least four harvestmen with one to four individuals feeding upon a brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) nestling at one time, and the other involved up to two harvestmen present at the nest, but only one individual fed upon the two Swainson's warbler nestlings.
20788623|Orientation is an essential process preceding movement behavior. Information necessary for orientation toward suitable habitat can be gathered by acute and internal information. The former comprises directly detectable, external stimuli, whereas internal information includes earlier experienced environmental cues and inherited information related to an individual's origin. In habitats that can suddenly be disturbed (such as river banks), an accurate orientation is of prime importance for successful movement toward safe habitat. In a common-garden field experiment, we studied between-population variation in movement responses toward safe winter habitat (dike vegetation) of two sympatric riparian wolf spiders, the stenotopic riparian species Pardosa agricola (Thorell 1856) and the generalist P. amentata (Clerck 1757). Both responses to direct visual cues and orientation toward home habitat were investigated on an unfamiliar river bank upstream from the original populations. Movement toward safe habitat was mainly controlled by previously collected information on the riverbank location in the stenotopic species and additionally influenced by visual cues and the prevailing weather conditions. Movements in P. amentata were flexible and not systematically guided by either internal information or direct visual cues. Experience on the location of safe habitat consequently guided orientation in the stenotopic species. Internal information is therefore hypothesised to favor the stenotopic wolf spider by restricting unnecessary movements when sudden threatening situations emerge. Generalist species have less experience with the specific disturbance and do not show pronounced orientation capabilities toward safe habitat.
3705976| We tested the hypothesis that the respiratory system of hypogean spiders is subject to regressive evolution by examining representatives of the family Dysderidae. This comparison included the epigean species Dysdera ninnii Canestrini 1868, and Harpactea lepida (C.L. Koch 1838), and the hypogean species Stalita taenaria Schidte 1847, and Parastalita stygia (Joseph 1882). Both tube tracheae and book lungs of these species were measured and compared using 10 indices. Both the tracheal system and book lungs of the hypogean species were less developed than those of the epigean ones. We suggest that the cause is reduction of the respiratory system as a part of general structural reductions in the troglobites. This is consistent with the lower respiratory rates that characterize many troglobites. 
41758971|We describe multiple observations of epizoic cyanobacteria occurring on external surfaces of a species of sclerosomatid harvestman (Prionostemma sp.) in Costa Rica. In the field we collected four adults (three males, one female) that had green films growing upon the dorsal surfaces of the carapace and abdominal scutum. Examination by SEM revealed dense clusters of what appeared to be small prokaryotic cells (1-5 m in diameter) covering the external surfaces of the carapace, abdominal scutum and coxae. We extracted DNA from the films of two specimens. The DNA was used as a template to amplify the intergenic spacer region (IGS) between the beta and alpha phycocyanin subunits (a signature DNA sequence, unique to cyanobacteria) by PCR. We successfully amplified an approximately 700 base pair product using DNA extracted from the film and did not obtain any product from the harvestman lacking the film. Our observation represents the second confirmed occurrence of epizoic cyanobacteria on Neotropical harvestmen. This is the first report of cyanobacteria associated with a sclerosomatid anywhere and the first known case from Central America.
3706147|Pisaurids such as Dolomedes triton (Walckenaer 1837) are well known as inhabitants of ponds and streams and are adept at locomotion on the water surface. In a broad survey of water surface locomotion in spiders, we have found that most taxa do not use specialized gaits under these circumstances. However, some tetragnathids, araneids, and salticids (three families that are outside of the superfamily Lycosoidea to which the pisaurids belong) resemble D. triton to the extent that they do use specialized gaits when on the water surface. Of these, the tetragnathids are particularly accomplished at water surface locomotion, achieving velocities that exceed those of D. triton when it rows, but not when it gallops.
4149968|Jumping spiders have long been used as model organisms to study visual communication. However, recent studies documenting the presence of intricate multicomponent seismic songs during courtship displays suggest an important role of seismic communication as well. Given the relatively recent focus on seismic communication, the extent to which seismic songs vary among jumping spider species or even among populations remains poorly understood. Here, we use the extensively studied Habronattus pugillis Griswold 1987 complex to explore putative seismic song diversity among males from isolated populations. H. pugillis populations have been studied extensively because of the tremendous diversification of male visual secondary sexual ornaments observed among adjacent mountain-top populations in southeastern Arizona ("sky islands"). Here, we aim to explore putative parallel patterns of diversification in seismic courtship songs between different sky island populations. Using laser vibrometry, we examined in detail the songs of three mountaintop populations (Atascosa (AT), Santa Rita (SR), and Santa Catalina (SC)) and observed an extraordinary diversity of songs and song types among these three populations. Large differences were seen in both the temporal and spectral properties of male seismic songs. In addition, we observed differences in song complexity between populations with some populations having "simple" songs (1 component) and others having "complex" songs (3 components). We also present preliminary data from four additional populations (Galiuro (GA), Huachuca (HU), Mule (MU), and Patagonia (PA)). Results from this study suggest that the diversification of male visual signals observed among populations of H. pugillis finds a counterpart in male seismic songs
3705892|A region of mitochondrial DNA coding for most of the third domain of the 12S rRNA of the ribosomal small subunit has been sequenced from two spiders in the genus Tetragnatha (Araneae, Tetragnathidae): a circumtropical species T. mandibulata and an endemic Hawaiian species T. hawaiensis. The secondary structure of the spider ribosomal RNA shows strong similarity to that of insects. Across this region, the two Tetragnatha sequences are 22% different. The T. mandibulata sequence is 36% different from the homologous segment in Drosophila yakuba and 51% different from the same segment in Homo sapiens. The spider sequences are sufficiently variable to be useful in studying genetic relationships among at least some of the species in this genus.
41758960|The new genus Tigrosa is established for five Nearctic species originally described in the genus Lycosa Latreille 1804. Four of the species are transferred from Hogna Simon 1885: H. annexa (Chamberlin & Ivie 1944), H. aspersa, (Hentz 1844), H. grandis (Banks 1894) and H. helluo (Walckenaer 1837). The remaining species, Allocosa georgicola (Walckenaer 1837) is transferred from Allocosa Banks 1900. The presumed synapomorphy that supports Tigrosa is the color pattern on the dorsum of the cphalothorax, which is described and illustrated. In addition to their distinct color pattern, Tigrosa species are very similar in characteristics of the male palpus and epigynum, details of the eye arrangement, leg length in relation to body dimensions, as well as foraging habits. Comparisons made between Hogna, as defined by the type species H. radiata, Latreille 1817, and Tigrosa, as defined in this paper, demonstrate distinct differences in dorsal color pattern, structure of the epigynum, dimensions of the eye rows, color pattern of the venter and habitat preferences.
25067894|Arctosa lutetiana (syn. Tricca lutetiana) (Simon 1876) (Lycosidae) is found in many European countries; however, the biology of the species is still unknown because it lives hidden under ground and is difficult to find. The objective of this study was to fill in basic information about the biology of this species. The specimens were obtained between 2005-2006. This species lives in primitive underground burrows that are not lined with silk. Herein we describe, for the first time, the burrows and the prey capture method of this species. /// Arctosa lutetiana (syn. Tricca lutetiana) (Simon, 1876), slk lesostepn (Lycosidae) je druh ijc v mnoha evropskch zemch, nicmn jeho biologie je dosud neznm. ije toti skrytm zpsobem ivota pod zem a je velice obtn ho v prod nalzt. Clem tto prce je doplnit zkladn data o biologii tohoto druhu. Jedinci byli zskvni pevn runm sbrem v letech 2005-2006. Dky vhodn zvolen metod chovu byly u tohoto druhu poprv popsny jeho podzemn komrky nevystlan pavuinou a zpsob lovu koisti.
3705390|Spiders of the species, Achaearanea tepidariorum (Araneae; Theridiidae), were held in enclosures under two prey regimes. One group of 100 spiders was provided with 100 fruit flies (Diptera; Drosophilidae; Drosophila melanogaster) per day and the second group of 100 spiders was provided with 1000 fruit flies per day. The number of spiders in enclosures dropped during the first six days in both groups. However, a higher rate of cannibalism in the low prey group caused the spider numbers in that enclosure to drop more rapidly than the high prey group. A greater proportion of the spiders in the low prey group settled into recognizable territories in the first six days than in the high prey group. Spiders in the high prey group tended to move more and therefore encounter conspecifics more frequently during observations. It is projected that tolerance, observed in these normally solitary spiders when large amounts of prey are present, could lead to more complex sociality if maintained under such conditions for an evolutionary period of time.
4129873|Heteropoda natans new species (Araneae, Sparassidae, Heteropodinae) is described from Borneo. Additional illustrations of the genitalia of H. hosei (Pocock 1897) are provided for comparison purposes. The lectotype of H. hosei is designated.
24717271|Two new species of the genus Conothele Thorell 1878 of the trapdoor spider family Ctenizidae are described from India: Conothele giganticus, sp. nov. is described from the Ngengpui Wildlife Sanctuary, Mizoram in northeast India and C. khunthokhanbi sp. nov. is described from Manipur in northeast India. Like other known Indian Conothele species, these spiders are also strictly ground burrowing. Additional information on habitat and natural history is provided for both species.
3705863| Based on the pattern of movement used during the search for prey, predators can generally be placed into one of two categories: active or passive searchers. This study documents an age-related switch in the movement pattern of the pisaurid spider Dolomedes triton. Individual spiders were marked and followed during two consecutive seasons on two ponds at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Laurel, Maryland. Mean distances moved per day were compared between adult females and juveniles. During both years, and on both ponds, adult females traveled significantly greater distances per day than did juveniles (1.88  0.33 m vs. 0.19  0.02 m for adult females and juveniles, respectively; years and ponds pooled). This shift suggests an age-related difference in foraging strategy. Repeated observations on individual female spiders support the notion that juvenile D. triton switch to a more active search mode upon maturation. It is hypothesized that this change in movement represents a switch in foraging strategy in response to increased energy requirements during yolk production. 
3705729|Crab spiders Misumena vatia typically guard their nests after laying eggs. Individuals that disappeared from their nests before their young emerged had similar laying dates, pre- or post-laying mass, egg mass, or reproductive effort to those that remained. They included both individuals that actively left the sites and ones that died. Spiders lost mass constantly through the guarding period, but total losses in the field did not approach those from the laboratory and were unlikely to be the primary source of mortality. Few spiders caught prey during this time, and those captures had little effect on the rate of loss. Small day-to-day fluctuations in mass were largely a result of changes in moisture availability.
4489055| The present study reports for the first time on the behavior prior to, during and after the copulation of a member of the haplogyne spider family, Tetrablemmidae and describes the web of this species. Prior to copulation, male and female of Indicoblemma lannaianwn from Thailand sometimes avoided each other or the female scared the male away, apparently by vigorous vibrations of her body. When first copulations were initiated, they lasted from 1.21 to 3.8 h with an average of 2.25  0.71 h (n = 17). Some females accepted a second male for mating 3-9 days after first mating. There was no significant difference between the duration of first and second copulations but significantly more trials were needed to induce the second copulations. In the copulatory position, the male was inverted and faced in the same direction as the female. He seized the female's opisthosoma with apophyses on his chelicerae which fit into grooves on a female's ventral plate in this way building a locking mechanism during copulation. The pedipalps were inserted alternately. The web of /. lannaianum consisted of a longish narrow sheet, which was made of many short threads forming a zigzag pattern and additional long oblique threads overdrawing the sheet and functioning as signal threads. 
3706003| In this article, an overview of the general feeding patterns of common agroecosystem spiders is presented. Five groups of web-weavers (Tetragnathidae, Araneidae, Theridiidae, Linyphiidae, Dictynidae) and five groups of hunters (small-sized Oxyopidae, large-sized Oxyopidae, Thomisidae, Salticidae, Lycosidae) are analyzed comparatively (based on 40 prey analyses previously published by various European and US authors). Fewer than 10 insect orders, as well as the order Araneae, make up the bulk of the prey of these spiders. Web-weavers and hunters both basically feed on the same prey orders, but in different proportions. The observed differences reflect in part the very diverse range of life styles and foraging modes exhibited by the various spider groups and, to some extent, differences in prey availability. Web-weavers are almost strictly insectivorous (insects constituting > 99% of total prey). Hunters, however, exhibit a mixed strategy of insectivorous and araneophagic foraging patterns (insects constituting 75-90% of total prey). Diet breadth computed with the Inverted Simpson Index was, on average, significantly higher in the hunting spiders than the web spiders. There seems to be a consistent trend of greater diet breadth of the hunters compared to the web-weavers in agroecosystems. Overall, spider individuals of small size (including large percentages of immatures) numerically dominate the faunas of field crops, and these feed primarily on tiny prey (< 4 mm in length). 
3705402|Over a seven-year period, approximately 35,000 spiders representing 26 families, 133 genera, and 234 species were captured in Washington County, Mississippi, by pitfall, sweepnet, vacuum, bag, and hand. Specimens were collected in 10 different habitat types and in four vegetational strata. Old-field habitats yielded the most species (152) and residential lawns the fewest (14). Considering all habitats sampled, the ground layer produced 111 species, the herbaceous strata 133, the shrub layer 49, and the tree strata 30 species. The sweepnet method of capture obtained 128 species, pitfall 95, hand 61, vacuum 53, and bagging 19 species. The largest number of species were obtained in spring and early summer (maximum of 125 in May), with the fewest in mid-winter (Jan. = 24). Twenty-one species were considered abundant, 51 common, 67 uncommon, and 95 rare. Additions to the state list of Dorris (1972) number 102 species, for a new state total of 364 species. A comparison with the North American fauna and with other surveys indicates that Washington County is underrepresented both in cursorial forms active on the soil surface and web-spinning forms typical of undisturbed habitats. The high incidence of disturbed habitats associated with intensive agricultural activities in Washington County seems to have produced a depauperate spider fauna, but spider populations of certain species characteristic of disturbed habitats are of sufficiently high density and broad distribution to have a potential affect on crop insect pests.
3706270|Comparative spermatology may provide characteristics that can be useful in systematics. Previous observations on sperm structure of the solifugid Eusimonia mirabilis revealed that the most similar arachnid sperm cells are found within the Actinotrichida (Acari). The general morphology of the testis and the tendency to form sperm aggregates are also similar in both taxa. Since knowledge of sperm in Solifugae until now came only from one species, in contrast to Acari in which all the higher taxa have been investigated, these characters were difficult to assess with regard to systematical implications. The present paper confirms the derived, simple-aflagellate structure of sperm in Solifugae and the similarity with sperm of Actinotrichida, presenting results for two further species of another family (Ammotrechidae) from Argentina. Sperm cells of representatives of both taxa are small, devoid of a flagellum, contain a chromatin body that is penetrated and surrounded by circles of the acrosomal filament, and have a tendency to form peripheral protuberances. Sperm morphology does not support the frequently suggested sister-group relationship between Solifugae and Pseudoscorpiones.
3705375|Predation by spiders on ground-released adult screwworms, Cochliomyia hominivorax (Coquerel), was studied near Tuxtla Gutierrez, Chiapas, Mexico, during 13 August 1984-23 January 1985. Observations of predatory behavior and manual collections of spiders during September provided the majority of the data. Species in 12 genera of spiders were confirmed as predators of screwworm flies. Nephila clavipes, Eriophora ravilla, Neoscona oaxacensis and Leucauge spp. were the most important predators. Spiders caused an estimated 4.5% mortality to flies in a
3705883|Dispersing spiderlings of Xysticus emertoni (Thomisidae), a litter-dwelling species, placed on sites similar to their nests on leaves usually descended quickly into the vegetation below. However, those placed on nearby goldenrod (Solidago spp.) flowers remained significantly longer, sometimes hunting, before dropping lower in the vegetation. They seldom ballooned from either site. Xysticus dispersal behavior differs markedly from that of the thomisid Misumena vatia, a flower-inhabiting species, which balloons regularly from leaves and remains much longer on goldenrod flowers than Xysticus.
23610287|Information regarding the eggs and egg sacs of spiders found in agricultural crops in the San Joaquin Valley of California's Central Valley is presented as a feasibility study to aid inspection of international commerce. Egg diameter showed little variation within a species and strong variation among species; hence, it is a valuable diagnostic feature. Egg quantity per sac and sac dimensions showed greater and overlapping variation, yet are still somewhat diagnostic depending on the species. Least diagnostic was the phenology of egg sac production, but this characteristic was still useful in determining that some species finish producing egg sacs prior to crop harvest, indicating that they would not be found in transported produce. A diagnostic key utilizing the most useful of these features is provided. Overall, it appears likely that if keys regarding spider eggs and egg sacs could be developed, they could provide useful information in a real world economic situation.
3704962|Collections of Phrynus from all available localities from the Americas have been examined. Collections from other parts of the world tropics have also been examined in the search for a better characterization of the three families of amblypygids which lack pulvilli in the tarsi of their ambulatory legs. The gensus Phrynus has been found to occur only in the Americas and a redefinition of the Phrynidae is given. Of the 24 species of Phyrnus described for the Americas, 12 species are considered as valid and redescribed. The three species described by Franganillo, Phrynus pinarensis, P. viridescens and P. rangelensis are considered species Incertae Sedis. Three new species are described; one, P. damonidaensis, presents a character unique within the family Phrynidae: three tibial segments in leg IV instead of four. Five new synonymies are recognized. Natural history data are presented for some of the species of Phrynus.
20617608|In the green lynx spider Peucetia viridans (Hentz 1832), the two openings of a mated female's epigynum are often sealed by copulatory plugs, sometimes with the two-pronged distal portion of the paracybium of a male palpus inserted in each opening and embedded in the plugs. The presence of copulatory plugs and paracymbia may prevent further mating by the female. However, not all mated females exhibit these structures, perhaps allowing some P. viridans females to mate with more than one male, despite the assertion of Whitcomb & Eason (1965) that females only mate once. We investigated this possibility by surveying the extent of multiple paternity in field-collected P. viridans broods from southern California. For adult females and their egg sacs, we determined the aspartate aminotransferase genotype for each mother and her spiderlings using allozyme electrophoresis in order to assess whether the progeny data best fit with a single male as the father. Two broods exhibited clear evidence of multiple paternity, verifying that multiple mating by females is possible in this species. Although most mothers of single paternity broods had one or both epigynal orifices blocked, some had no blockage at all, while the two mothers of multiple paternity broods had some kind of blockage to one or both orifices, suggesting that neither plugs nor inserted paracymbial processes are associated with a reduction in female remating.
23610238|Several recent studies emphasize, correctly, that the biomass of prey captured by an orb web is likely more important than the number of prey in driving the evolution of web designs. Using equations that estimate prey mass from the lengths of captured prey, one study concluded that rare, long-bodied prey contribute the large majority of energy obtained by orb weavers in general, and thus that the designs of orb webs should generally reflect selection favoring the capture of larger insects, especially the ability to absorb high-energy impacts. I show here that the weights of long prey have sometimes been seriously overestimated by these equations. In addition, the longer prey captured by spiders probably represent highly biased samples, in terms of both low weight/body length and low momentum/body weight, of the longer prey available in the environment, leading to overestimates of the kinetic energy that the orb needed to absorb to stop them. Deductions concerning how selection acts on orb designs that have been based on the prey captured are also flawed, because additional data on prey availabilities and prey escapes are needed to evaluate the possible gains and losses from different orb designs. Still another complication is that data on prey abundances in natural rather than altered environments are needed to understand past selection pressures that produced present-day web forms. I conclude that a dominant importance for rare large prey in orb web evolution has not been conclusively demonstrated to be a general rule for orb weavers. A more inclusive approach regarding orb functions is prudent, especially because many traits that improve some functions have opposite effects on others.
3706312|Two novel sampling techniques were used to survey the spider community of the leaf litter in a deciduous forest in Kentucky, USA. Using modified pitfall traps and litter-grab techniques, we sampled separately the top, middle and bottom litter layers from April-October. Our sampling program captured over 3,000 spiders encompassing 18 different families. Both techniques revealed that the web-spinning families were more abundant in the lower litter layers. In contrast, the non-web building cursorial spiders, which actively pursue their prey, were more abundant in the top litter layer. Cursorial spiders, on average, were larger than the web-building spiders found in the leaf litter. Web-building spiders from the top litter layer were also larger than the web-building spiders caught in the middle and the bottom litter layers. Comparison between the two sampling techniques revealed that the spider community profile is greatly influenced by the sampling method employed. The stratified litter-grab technique revealed the numerical dominance of Dictynidae (38% of the spiders captured) and Linyphiidae (32%), families that are predominately minute web-building spiders. In contrast, the pitfall-trap technique suggested Lycosidae (24%), a family of active foragers, to be numerically dominant, with Dictynidae representing only 1% of the spiders captured. The results indicate that major groups of spiders differ in their vertical distribution within deciduous leaf litter, and that sampling method can dramatically affect inferences about spider community structure.
3705991|Thirty nine species of Salticidae from 33 Australian islands are analyzed with respect to their total distribution, dispersal possibilities and relations with the continental fauna. The possibility of the Torres Strait islands as a dispersal route for salticids is discussed.
4489059|Individuals of a Thestylus aurantiurus Yamaguti & Pinto-da-Rocha 2003 population in the Parque Estadual da Serra da Cantareira (Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil) show an increase of activity throughout the year. This increase is related to the reproductive season of these scorpions, from September to November. The abundance of scorpions was related to environmental factors in four different areas of the park. More scorpions were collected in the higher areas, far away from water sources of the park and not exposed to flooding. A short description of the Thestylus aurantiurus burrows is also presented.
3706286|The yearly differences between material collected over two years by means of pitfall traps in three peat bogs in Lithuania and one in Finland were analyzed. Single year collections formed 58.8-87.9% of all the species collected over the two year period. No turnover occurred in the abundant species (> 1% of all specimens in one year sample) if traps were not relocated. The rates of the turnover can vary considerably in various dominance groups and show different trends at different sites. Marked annual differences in abundance were recorded even among some typically abundant peat bog species like Pardosa sphagnicola, Drassyllus pusillus, Scotina palliardi, Agyneta cauta, Arctosa alpigena, Bathyphantes gracilis, Antistea elegans, and Drassodes pubescens. Only a few species typical of other habitats were found to be permanently abundant in peat bogs. Five species recorded during the investigation are new to the spider fauna of Lithuania.
25434325|Various orb weaving spiders decorate their webs with extra silk structures. In the araneid genus Argiope, these web decorations consist of flimsy aciniform silk threads arranged in zig zag shaped bands. The adaptive value of these structures is still unclear and controversy over a suite of possible functional explanations persists: the high variation of web decoration adds further uncertainty. Web decorations can differ in shape, size, and frequency across species and even within species. Physiological processes may influence individual variation in web decorating behavior. Molting events are major physiological transitions combined with fundamental alterations of the metabolic state of the spiders. For gaining new insights into possible proximate mechanisms driving web decorating behavior, we observed subadult Argiope keyserlingi Karsch 1878 females in the laboratory and registered the individual variation of web decorations associated with the maturity molt under laboratory conditions. We found substantial individual variation of web decorations of A. keyserlingi. The most striking result was that subadult spiders built dramatically oversized decorations prior to the last molt. Since aciniform silk is used for both constructing web decorations and immobilizing prey we suggest that these extensive decorations might provide a store for the swift replenishment of aciniform silk after the molt. High silk recycling rates make temporary outsourcing less costly and facilitate a rapid resumption of prey capture following lost foraging opportunities during the molting phase. Thus, we argue that the solution of the riddle of web decorations might reside in the physiology of molting spiders.
4129806|The genus Waitkera is the only New Zealand representative of the family Uloboridae and is known from a single species, Waitkera waitakerensis. This species is found in forests of the North Island, where it constructs orb-webs on understory vegetation. Rock outcrops in the Northland region support populations of W. waitkerensis comprised of larger individuals than those found elsewhere on the island, including those in surrounding forests. Parsimony analyses of DNA sequences from the mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase subunit ND1, using Siratoba refernes, another basal uloborid, as an outgroup, did not delineate these rock-dwelling populations as a monophyletic lineage that could be regarded as a distinct species. A TCS analysis leads to the same conclusion, suggesting that rock-dwelling populations represent independently evolved ecotypes. Northland populations of W. waitakerensis are phylogenetically basal; indicating that the species' range contracted northward during the Pleistocene and recolonized the remainder of the North Island.
4129811|A new species of hackled mesh spider, Platocoelotes polyptychus (Araneae, Amaurobiidae), is described and illustrated based on specimens from Gufengdong Cave, Hunan Province, China.
3706386|The Tasmanian species of Pararchaeidae and Holarchaeidae are revised and higher species-group relationships within the Pararchaeidae are examined. Three new species of Pararchaea Forster are described and the genitalia of P. corticola Hickman, P. ornata Hickman, P. saxicola Hickman and P. bryophila Hickman are redescribed, the receptacula of P. ornata, P. saxicola and P. bryophila for the first time. The male of P. ornata is newly described. With the addition of P. hickmani new species, P. lulu new species and P. robusta new species, the Tasmanian pararchaeid fauna is enlarged to include seven species. Holarchaea globosa (Hickman) is rediagnosed and the female genitalia and male are described and illustrated for the first time. Biological information is included where known.
20617604|Several spider species use plants as shelter and foraging sites, but the relationships among these organisms are still poorly known. Lynx spiders of the genus Peucetia do not build webs, and many species live strictly in plants bearing glandular trichomes. Peucetia flava Keyserling 1877 inhabits Solanum thomasiifolium in southeastern Brazil and usually preys on herbivores and other small insects adhered to the glandular trichomes of its host plant. To evaluate the potential anti-herbivore protection of this spider species for S. thomasiifolium, we glued termites used as herbivore models on trichomes of S. thomasiifolium and on neighboring plants lacking glandular trichomes. Leaf miner damage and spider density were recorded for S. thomasiifolium plants in July 1997. There was a positive relationship between plant size and spider density. The removal of termites in S. thomasiifolium by P. flava was higher than in plants without glandular trichomes. The leaf miner damage was negatively related to spider density. Our results suggest that P. flava may be an important plant bodyguard in the defense of S. thomasiifolium from its natural herbivores.
3705750| Prey (Acromyrmex sp. ants) were offered to four experimental groups of Metepeira sp. A: adult females on their own webs; juveniles on their own webs; adult males on webs built by adult females; adult males on webs built by juveniles. Although adult males do not build webs, they are fully capable of capturing prey in foreign webs. Male behavior was basically similar to females and juveniles. However, males showed high frequency in certain units of behavior in the prey detection phase (particularly males on female webs). A sexual origin for these units of behavior is suggested. Sexual interference would reduce the predatory efficiency of males but also probably reduce the risk of female predation on males in the field. /// Se entregaron presas (hormigas Acromyrmex sp.) a cuatro grupos experimentales de Metepeira sp. A: hembras adultas ocupando sus telas; juveniles ocupando sus telas; machos adultos ocupando telas de hembras; machos adultos ocupando telas de juveniles. Los machos adultos, que no construyen telas orbiculares, mostraron plena habilidad predatoria en telas ajenas. El comportamiento de los machos fue bsicamente similar a hembras y juveniles. Sin embargo, los machos presentaron alta frecuencia de algunas unidades de comportamiento en la fase deteccin (principalmente machos en telas de hembras). Se sugiere un origen sexual de estas unidades. Esta caracterstica afectara la eficiencia de captura pero disminuira los riesgos de predacin sobre los machos en el campo. 
3706220|Three new species of the genus Phrurolithus are described from the Gaoligong Mountain Region of Yunnan Province, China: Phrurolithus bifidus, P. qiqiensis and P. revolutus.
3705785|The spider genus Tetragnatha is highly speciose in the Hawaiian Islands, diverse in morphology, ecology and behavior. The present study describes the distribution of 13 species of the genus from natural areas on the windward northern and eastern sections of Haleakala volcano, Maui, primarily in the Nature Conservancy of Hawaii's Waikamoi Preserve and Haleakala National Park. Six species do not build webs, and have recently been described; the remainder all build webs. The description of six new web-building species, T. trituberculata n. sp., T. eurychasma n. sp., T. acuta n. sp., T. filiciphilia n. sp., T. stelarobusta n. sp., T. paludicola n. sp., is the primary focus of this paper.
24365305|Body temperature is the most important ecophysiological variable affecting all aspects of the performance of ectotherms. However, thermal preferences and tolerances of spiders have been studied only in 0.1% of spider species. Knowledge of thermal preferences and tolerances is necessary to describe the ecology of these animals, defining the preferred foraging sites or preferred shelters and reproductive sites. In this study we report for the first time the preferred temperature of Dysdera crocata C.L. Koch 1838 in the laboratory. This is an epigean spider of Mediterranean climates with large temperature fluctuations. The preferred temperature was low: 9.12  5.12 C, and actively searched. It did not vary throughout the day.
3705422|In coastal Maine the crab spider Misumena vatia produces a single brood of eggs, but incipient signs of double-broodedness occasionally appear: 1) hunting after guarding nest of first brood; 2) apparent laying of second brood by artificially provisioned individuals during an unusually warm summer; 3) and occasional production of second nests without eggs, accompanied by guarding. To determine whether these spiders are capable of producing a successful second brood, I provisioned adult females to enhance early laying of a first brood, removed them from their brood after 10 days, mated half of them a second time, and then provisioned them all again. Nearly two-thirds laid a second brood, whose success did not differ from that of unmanipulated Misumena first broods in the study area. Numbers of remated and non-remated females producing young did not differ, indicating that remating is not necessary for a successful second brood. However, five broods of nonremated spiders had low hatching success, suggesting that sperm were sometimes limiting. Semelparity in this population is thus apparently normally maintained indirectly by the length of the season.
3706094| The holotype of Cecoditha parva Mello-Leito 1939, from Chubut Province, Argentina, is redescribed and shown to be a typical member of the genus Austrochthonius Chamberlin 1929. The monotypic genus Cecoditha Mello-Leito 1939 is therefore a junior subjective synonym of Austrochthonius, while the subfamily Cecodithinae Chamberlin & Chamberlin 1945 (Tridenchthoniidae) is a junior subjective synonym of Chthoniinae Daday 1888 (Chthoniidae). /// El holotipo de Cecoditha parva Mello-Leito 1939, de la provincia de Chubut, Argentina, es redecristo y se demuestra que es un miembro tpico del gnero Austrochthonius Chamberlin 1929. El gnero monotpico Cecoditha Mello-Leito 1939 es por lo tanto un sinnimo subjetivo posterior de Austrochthonius, mientras que la subfamilia Cecodithinae Chamberlin & Chamberlin 1945 (Tridenchthoniidae) es un sinnimo subjetivo posterior de Chthoniinae Daday 1888 (Chthoniidae). 
24365296|Chaneke fogoso gen. nov. et sp. nov., are described based on specimens collected near the coast in southeastern Guerrero, Mexico. The genus is characterized by the peculiar rhomboidal shape of the subaculear tubercle, and the lack of at least one trichobothrium on the femur, patella and chela of the pedipalp, which make it the second known buthid genus with decreasing neobothriotaxy on those three pedipalpal segments, together with Alayotityus Armas 1973. Tityopsis aliciae Armas & Martin-Frias 1998, from Oaxaca, Mexico, is transferred to the new genus, resulting in Chaneke aliciae (Armas & Martin-Frias 1998), comb. nov. A cladistic analysis including all other New World "microbuthids" with decreasing neobothriotaxy, with 30 morphological characters, indicates that Chaneke is monophyletic, clearly distinct from Alayotityus Armas 1973 (from eastern Cuba) and Tityopsis Armas 1974 (from western Cuba).
4489074|Three junior homonyms were detected among the Arachnida and the following replacement names are proposed: Neoarminda for Arminda Roewer 1949 (Opiliones); Alpazia for Lapazia Roewer 1949 (Opiliones); and Araneotanna for Tanna Berland 1938 (Araneae). Accordingly, three new combinations are herein proposed for the respective type species. All three genera are monotypic.
3706324|A new subspecies of Philodromus rufus, P. r. jenningsi is described from the south central and southeastern United States. It is characterized by a light brown unicolorous carapace, except for dark semicircular marks at the central rear carapace edge.
25067848|We survey spiders from 43 families, 62 genera, and three arachnid outgroups for the presence and diversity of elongated pedicillate setae (EPS)-a complex system of probably sensory setae hitherto undocumented outside Theridiidae. Although not present in all spiders, these setae are sufficiently widespread to suggest they are primitively present in the order. Because they are absent in related arachnids, they appear to be a synapomorphy of spiders. Based on the morphology and orientation of these setae, it has been suggested that they supplement abdominal slit sensilla in proprioception, documenting the position and movement of the abdomen relative to the cephalothorax. Although still poorly known, the presence and distribution of these setae are informative at lower and higher phylogenetic levels.
40233854|Retreats of orb weaving spiders (Araneidae) were collected during the winter of 2004/2005 in northwestern Germany in order to determine the importance of these animal-made structures as hibernation sites for terrestrial arthropods. Retreats were clipped out of the vegetation, stored, and searched in the laboratory for their inhabitants. Overall, there was a high occupation of retreats by spiders, whereas only a few other arthropods were recorded. For Central Europe, there is no evidence that retreats made by orb weavers support the hibernation of a large spectrum of arthropods other than spiders. Only for spiders that may also occur as secondary occupants, retreats play an important role as hibernation sites.
3704964| Water loss rates, cuticular permeability, metabolic rates and rhythms were determined for the troglobitic spider, Lycosa howarthi, and an undescribed epigean spider, Lycosa sp., collected from lava tube caves and lava flows, respectively, on the Island of Hawaii. The cuticular lipid and hydrocarbon surface densities as well as an analysis of the hydrocarbon fraction were also determined for each species and correlated with their different cuticular permeabilities. Water loss for the cave species was significantly higher at each test humidity, with the maximum difference between the species occuring at 19C and 0% RH (
3705356|At least 54 species of spiders are winter-active in central, southern Canada, displaying phenologies which seem to be 42.6% stenochronous, 38.9% eurychronous and 14.8% winter-mature, with juveniles and adult stages overwintering. The cool climate of Manitoba appears to have prolonged the duration of the life cycles of some spiders. The family composition during the winter months is 34.6% erigonines (mostly represented by Ceraticelus laetus and Sisicus sp.), 13.8% clubionids (Agroeca ornata), 13.5% lycosids, 11.1% linyphiines (Centromerus sylvaticus), 8.8% thomisids (juveniles of Xysticus), 6.1% theridiids (Robertus arcticus), and 12.0% other families.
3705908| A simple modification of classical optimal foraging models yields explicit predictions of the allocation of resources to orb-web synthesis and weight gain in a spider. Because the spiders may be trying to avoid weight loss, weight gain and web size are predicted to be be negatively correlated at higher food levels and positively correlated at lower food levels. These predictions were upheld qualitatively by experiments involving juvenile Nephila clavipes and N. maculata. /// Una sincilla modificacin a los modelos clsicos del forrajeo ptimo da predicciones explcitas sobre la reparticin de recursos entre el sintesis de la tela orbicular y el aumento de peso en una araa. Dado que araas posiblemente estn ententando evitar la prdida de peso, la interaccin entre el aumento de peso y el tamao de la tela deberia estar negativamente correlacionada bajo majores niveles de alimentacin, y positivamente correlacionada bajo de condiciones de alimentacin reducida. Estas predicciones fueron appoyadas experimentalmente utilizando juveniles de Nephila clavipes y N. maculata. 
3705663| Spermiogenesis and the ultrastructure of the testes, vasa deferentia, and spermatozoa of Hypochilus pococki, a palaeocribellate spider, are described. The sperm exhibit many character states apparently plesiomorphic for spiders (an acrosomal complex composed of a cone-shaped acrosomal vacuole and an acrosomal filament running to the end of a nuclear canal, a postcentriolar nuclear elongation, an axonema with a 92+3 pattern, centrally located mitochondria, and a rolling-up of the nucleus and flagellum at the end of spermiogenesis) and two states that may be synapomorphic for araneomorphs (a stout nucleus and a very pronounced nuclear elongation). The spermatozoa are delivered as cleistospermia (individual spherical sperm cells each encapsulated in a secretory sheath). It is argued that, for spiders, coenospermia are plesiomorphic and cleistospermia apomorphic. 
40233845|The ability of Grammostola. mollicoma (Ausserer 1875) spiderlings (Araneae, Theraphosidae) to emerge from the cocoon without the assistance of their mother was tested experimentally. We created two experimental groups with 23 cocoons in each group. In one of the groups we cut the cocoon wall creating an opening; in the other group, the cocoon remained untouched. We found no differences between the groups in either the number or instar composition of the spiderlings that emerged. The spiderlings were able to emerge without the assistance of their mother. The emerging instars in both groups were precocious compared to previous suggestions in the literature. /// Ponemos a prueba experimentalmente la capacidad de Grammostola mollicoma (Ausserer 1875) (Araneae, Theraphosidae) para salir de la ooteca sin asistencia de su madre. Creamos dos grupos experimentales cada uno con 23 ootecas. En uno de los grupos cortamos la pared de la ooteca mientras que el otro permaneci intocado (grupo control). No encontramos diferencias en el nmero de araitas emergidas ni en los estadios de emergencia entre los grupos. Los hijos pudieron emerger sin la asistencia de su madre. Los estadios en que las araitas emergieron en ambos grupos fueron levemente ms precoces que lo indicado previamente en la literatura. Se discuten posibles explicaciones para estos resultados.
3705301|Members of the opiliones family, Phalangodidae, found in Costa Rica are considered here. Previously described species were examined. Two new genera, Costabrimma and Neocynorta are defined. Species described include: Costabrimma cruzensis, n. sp., C. nicoyensis, n. sp., C. terrena, n. sp.; Dapessus tarsalis (Banks), D. albitrochanteris (Roewer), D. atroluteus (Roewer), D. brevis (Roewer), D. foliatus, n. sp., D. gracilipes (Roewer), D. llorensis, n. sp., D. parallelus (Goodnight and Goodnight), D. tenuis (Roewer), D. trochantericus (Roewer), D. vitensis, n. sp., D. zalmoxiformis (Roewer); Neocynortina dixoni, n. sp., Pachylicus rugosus (Banks), P. cotoensis, n. sp., P. foveolatus, n. sp., P. hirsutus Roewer, P. hispidus, n. sp., P. spinatus, n. sp.; Panopiliops reimoseri (Roewer), P. inops, n. sp.; Phalangoduna granosa Roewer; Stygnoleptes analis Banks; Stygnomma fuhrmanni Roewer and Pellobunus insularis Banks. All species with the exception of Pellobunus insularis are members of the subfamily Phalangodinae; P. insularis is regarded as a member of the subfamily Samoninae. All species are illustrated; keys are provided for the identification of males to most genera.
25067842|This study elucidates the homology of elements of the male palps in the spider family Theridiidae. We survey and illustrate 60 species from 29 out of the 86 currently recognized genera representing all subfamilies. The study is buttressed by a phylogenetic framework, and uses a new method to evaluate critically competing homology hypotheses based on various criteria. Among the classic criteria for homology, topology performed better than special similarity, and much better than function. Guided by those results, we propose names for and correspondences among the broad diversity of theridiid palpal tegular sclerites. We discuss the phylogenetic utility and distribution of key palpal characteristics, and evaluate existing evolutionary hypotheses of the theridiid palp and its components.
3705020|Use of a water sprayer increases the visibility of webs such that web-building spider population densities can be accurately determined. This method produces statistically superior results to sweep netting and does not adversely affect the populations sampled.
23610291|Using the road tarantula Eupalaestrus weijenberghi (Thorell 1894), we tested the importance of the third pair of legs in male courtship behavior. Our results showed that the third pair of legs is essential for males to elicit female sexual receptivity. Males with their second pair of legs immobilized elicited receptive responses from females, but males with the third legs immobilized did not. The potential role of the third pair of legs in the generation and/or transmission of seismic signals via the substrate is discussed.
23610240|The wandering spiders Ctenus amphora Mello-Leito 1930 and Ctenus crulsi Mello-Leito 1930 are sympatric in central Amazonian rainforests; however, the former is more abundant in sandy soils and the latter in clay soils. In previous studies authors suggested that C. crulsi is competitively superior on clay soils and avoids sandy soils. Thus, we hypothesized that these species differ in their responses to the soil type. To test this, we placed 37 C. amphora and 30 C. crulsi in chambers providing two choices (sand or clay) and compared the proportion of observations in each to evaluate both species' preferences. Ctenus crulsi significantly preferred clay to sand (P < 0.01), while C. amphora showed no evidence of preference between two types of soil. We discuss the possible ecological consequences of this difference in behavior. This is the first study that experimentally shows a difference between the responses of spider species to soil type as an explanation of their coexistence.
3705969|Geological and morphological evidence suggests that the earliest scorpions were at least partially aquatic and that terrestrialization occurred within the scorpion clade. Scorpions and one or more other arachnid lineages are therefore likely to have come onto land independently. The phylogenetic position of scorpions remains controversial and we question Dromopoda, in which scorpions are placed derived within Arachnida, as this is not supported by scorpions' lateral eye rhabdomes, embryology and sperm morphology. We propose a synapomorphy for scorpions + eurypterids, a postabdomen of five segments as part of an opisthosoma of 13 segments. Scorpions and tetrapulmonates must have evolved their book lungs convergently while fossil evidence indicates that a stomotheca, synapomorphic for Dromopoda, is probably convergent too. 'Arachnid' characters such as Malpighian tubules, the absence of a carapace pleural margin, and an anteriorly directed mouth may also be convergent, although their status as synapomorphies can be defended using parsimony. Convergence is difficult to prove unequivocally, but when there are strong grounds for suspecting it, such characters are questionable evidence for arachnid monophyly.
3705102| Tityus brazilae, new species (Scorpiones, Buthidae), is described based on four specimens (one male and three females) from Simes Filho (Salvador), Itapetinga and Teixeira de Freitas in the state of Bahia, Brazil. ///  descrita como nova a espcie Tityus brazilae (Scorpiones, Buthidae), a partir de quatro exemplares (um macho e trs fmeas), coletados em Simes Filho (Salvador), Itapetinga e Teixeira de Freitas, no estado da Bahia, Brasil. 
41804580|Despite the fact that taxonomically the name Eurypelma californicum (Ausserer 1871) has been regarded as a nomen dubium and thus invalid for several decades, it is increasingly used in non-taxonomic publications and on the internet. This makes it necessary to trace back the identity of the spiders involved. The taxonomy of Eurypelma californicum and Aphonopelma hentzi (Girard 1852) was investigated, and it is concluded that the spiders referred to as Eurypelma californicum in physiological publications of the last 35 years belong to an Aphonopelma species, most likely A. hentzi.
3705594|The new genus Scharffia (Araneae, Cyatholipidae), comprising the new species Scharffia chinja, Scharffia holmi, Scharffia nyasa and Scharffia rossi, is described.
25067898|The super-cooling point (SCP) of Pardosa groenlandica was found to be -10.54 C, which is lower than for species from warmer climates, in agreement with predictions. There was no significant difference found between sexes. There were also no significant differences between the seasons, although there was a slight trend towards lower SCP temperatures in the winter months. Dehydration lowered SCP in P. groenlandica, with a mean depression of over 3 C in desiccated individuals. Specimens of P. groenlandica were able to move at temperatures as low as -2.3 C. These data allow for comparisons with samples from other climatic regions, and reinforce predictions based on previous studies with a variety of arthropods, regarding the effects of hunger and desiccation on the SCP.
20798596|Although venom glands were described for the Mesothelae many years ago (Bristowe & Millot 1933), a more recent monograph (Haupt 2003) denied the existence of such glands in the Mesothelae. Our morphological studies of nine different species of Liphistius demonstrated the presence of venom gland openings on the cheliceral fangs in all of these species. Also, we observed a small venom gland in the anterior portion of the cheliceral basal segment. The possibility that venom glands may be lacking in adult males is discussed. The presence of venom glands in the Mesothelae indicates that this is a plesiomorphic character of all Araneae.
25434320|The cribellate amaurobiid genus Taira, which is suggested to be most similar to the genus Amaurobius and some other related genera, is revised based on genital characters. Eight species, one from Japan and seven from China, are included. Five new species from China are described: T. cangshan, T. concava, T. latilabiata, T. obtusa, and T. sulciformis. Titanoeca decorata Yin & Bao 2001 is newly transferred to this genus and its male is described for the first time. Taira lunaris Wang & Ran 2004 is newly synonymized with T. liboensis Zhu, Chen & Zhang 2004.
3705581|Linothele megatheloides is newly described from Colombia. It differs from other species of Linothele by the larger size, very long posterior lateral spinnerets and scopulate tarsi of females.
40233849|Maternally inherited bacterial endosymbionts such as Wolbachia can potentially have a major impact on the reproduction of their arthropod hosts. Most previous studies have focused on the effects on insects, but recent evidence demonstrates that the endosymbionts Wolbachia, Rickettsia, and Spiroplasma are also common in spiders. Such infections potentially explain observed characteristics of reproduction in this group such as skewed sex ratios or reported cases of parthenogenesis. Here we test spiders and a range of other arachnids for infection with another, more recently described maternally acquired endosymbiont, Cardinium. We present data from a survey of spiders and other arachnids collected in the field and obtained from museum collections. Infections with Cardinium are found to be very widespread, perhaps more so than in other arthropod groups. The consequences of this and directions for future research on endosymbiont-arachnid interactions are discussed.
3706102| Argyrodes fictilium is a rarely collected species whose northern range was thought to be southern Canada. Recent collections in the eastern boreal forests of Qubec extend its distribution range to the north and suggest that A. fictilium might be found anywhere within the boreal forest tree limit. Mature males collected in May indicate a summer-stenochronous type of phenology. 
3705888|Three field-collected isofemale lines of Metaphidippus galathea were established as laboratory colonies. The female parents and their progeny were electrophoretically examined for 13 proteins coding for 21 isozymes. Eight proteins were segregating for allozymes and four were analyzed for Mendelian inheritance. Although sample sizes were small, the GOT-1 locus showed a tendency toward deviation from the expected inheritance pattern. Nonconformance to genetic expectations may be due to multiple-mating, to selection effects from laboratory rearing conditions, or to genetic drift.
3705114|After re-examination of the type specimen of Corosoma sellowi Karsch, the genus is transferred from the chernetid subfamily Lamprochernetinae to the Chernetinae (no tactile seta on tibia of leg IV, flagellum of three blades). Probably it is closely related to Dasychernes Chamberlin. Some external adaptive characters suggest a way of life similar to that of Dasychernes, which is known to inhabit nests of meliponine bees.
4489040|The natural prey of the crab spider Xysticus loeffieri Roewer 1955, living under stones, was studied. The percentage of feeding specimens in the population studied was low (1.4-4.6%), and it declined with the beginning of the breeding period. Investigation has shown that X. loeffieri is a polyphagous predator. Representatives of twelve arthropod orders were found in its diet. Arachnids (opilionids and spiders) formed the major food component constituting ca. 70% of prey captured. No insect order was present in any considerable percentage. Several worker ants were observed as prey suggesting that X. loeffieri is a myrmecophagic spider. Seven incidences of cannibalism were recorded, which all involved predation on adult conspecifics (two males and five females). The length of prey killed by X. loeffieri ranged between 1.25 and 15.00 mm (mean 4.68 mm) and constituted from 14.3-187.5% (mean 64.2%) of length of their captors. The most frequently captured prey were small arthropods not exceeding half the size of the spiders.
23048783|Females of the leaf-curling sac spider Clubiona riparia build three-sided capsules, in which they enclose both themselves and their eggs. A capsule is usually constructed by bending a single blade of grass or other leaf twice, each time causing a fold that is perpendicular to the long axis of the blade, and joining the edges with silk. When constructed with monocot leaf blades, the resulting capsule is roughly triangular in cross section and 24 times as long as it is wide. We sampled occupied capsules from a 0.16hectare marsh in central Ontario, Canada. Although we found capsules built with the leaves of cattails (Typha latifolia), iris (Iris versicolor), a grass (Calamagrostis sp.), and an unidentified willow shrub (Salix sp.), for the current analysis we concentrated on the monocots because of their structural similarity. Capsules built on cattails (2.13  0.14 ml) were more voluminous than those on iris (1.63  0.14 ml), and capsules made of grass blades (0.67  0.08 ml) were the smallest. Nearly 70% of the total variation in capsule volume was associated with differences between the plant species. Only among capsules built on cattails was there a significant positive relationship between preoviposition spider mass and capsule volume; it accounted for about 37% of the variability in capsule volume. On willow leaves, spiders always constructed capsules with the lower surface of the leaf to the inside of the capsule; and on cattail blades, spiders always made their bends in a clockwise direction. We discuss the implications of our findings for an understanding of the choices these spiders make just prior to oviposition.
25434290|The hunting behavior of juvenile Yllenus arenarius Menge 1868 in their first week after leaving sub-sand nests was studied. The spiders were tested with prey that can effectively escape (Homoptera) and prey that are not capable of efficient escape (Thysanoptera and larvae of Lepidoptera) in order to assess the complexity of young spiders' hunting tactics. Numerous differences were found in the mode of catching the prey, which indicate that the spiders possess a conditional hunting strategy. The strategy is expressed in: direction of approach, speed of approach, distance of attack and other prey-specific behaviors. The results strongly suggest the pre-programmed background of both the observed behaviors and sensitivity towards certain prey characteristics that enabled prey identification.
3706171|The mate preference characteristics of adult Tetragnatha elongata were assessed with respect to measures of female mass, linear size (length), and condition (mass scaled by length: body condition). Males preferred longer, heavier females and females with higher body condition indices. When mass is partially controlled, males still preferred females of higher body condition, but reversed their preference for length and chose smaller females. We present evidence that female body condition and mass are associated with the volume of her egg load and the proximity of oviposition, whereas female body length is not associated with either. Females displayed no clear preference among males for mass or linear size, but were reluctant to mate in female-choice trials. The small sample size obtained may have obscured the detection of female mate preferences if they exist. This may be the first evidence that mate choice is influenced by body condition rather than mass or linear size among spiders.
3705647|The pseudoscorpions of the genera Chthonius C.L. Koch 1843 (Chthoniidae) and Roncus L. Koch 1873 (Neobisiidae) from Montenegro, Yugoslavia have been studied. Three new species, Chthonius (Chthonius) prove, Roncus hors, and R. davor are described. Diagnostic characters of the analyzed taxa are thoroughly described and figured. Taxonomic interrelationships and geographical distribution are briefly discussed. Including these three species, the family Chthoniidae occurs with five species in Montenegro, the family Neobisiidae with 13 species.
25067896|Spiders of sexually dimorphic and nocturnal species, Poltys grayi Smith 2006 and P. laciniosus Keyserling 1886, were reared from egg sacs. Spiders were kept in small containers and were fed on a non-living food mix based on houseflies, pollen, egg, and moths. Despite setbacks while developing the method, 41% of P. grayi spiderlings matured (all males) and 24% of P. laciniosus matured (both males and females). Details of the food mix and conditions of rearing are presented. This method of rearing spiders may be useful for taxonomic purposes and for studies of variation, but is probably unsuitable for behavioral studies.
4489072|In this paper, we provide the first observations of maternal care for the harvestman family Cranaidae. Adult females of two species, Santinezia serratobialis Roewer 1932, which belongs to the group curvipes, and Santinezia sp., which is probably a new species of the group gigantea, were found in association with egg clutches. Since the microhabitats used for oviposition by these species are very similar, we believe that maternal care may be a synapomorphic trait of the genus Santinezia.
3705999|The annual recolonization of many agroecosystems by spiders is accomplished more by aerial deposition of ballooning spiders than by cursorial invasion from refugia such as forests and fence lines. The resulting spider communities can have major direct impacts on prey populations and can therefore strongly influence crop productivity. In this paper I first review what we know about ballooning in the broad sense, and then explore the influence of localized atmospheric structure on the physics and dynamics of ballooning. I used relatively high frequency measurements of air movement (speed and inclination) to develop a statistical characterization of the aerial microclimate at the top of the canopy in a field dominated by goldenrod (Solidago sp.), and analyzed the known physics of ballooning in the context of that statistical characterization. The major findings are (1) that the spider's perception of the current state of its microclimate, at least with respect to air direction and speed, has almost no predictive value and can only contribute to the spider's decision-making in a statistical sense, and (2) that the size distribution of the population of aeronauts is well explained by constraints imposed by aerodynamics and the probabilistic structure of the turbulent atmosphere.
3706038|New fossil spiders from Triassic rocks of South Africa and Virginia are described. Though lacking synapomorphies of Araneomorphae, certain features suggest they belong in that infraorder, and possibly in the superfamily Araneoidea. Thus, they represent the oldest known fossil araneomorphs and extend the fossil record of the infraorder by approximately 40 Ma to 225 Ma.
24717315|Crab spiders in the subfamily Thomisinae rank among the most extreme animals in terms of sexual size dimorphism (SSD). Hypotheses regarding the apparent selection for dwarfing of males relative to females generally reference advantages of small male size for mobility. Specific proposals claim that selection should be strongest in species with limited male-male combat, which would otherwise favor larger males. We aimed to determine if the predicted traits of low densities, female biased sex ratios, more movement by males, and limited male-male conflict characterized a population of Misumenoides formosipes Walckenaer 1837. New and previous assessments of these characteristics in this extremely dimorphic spider revealed a mix of support and discordance with the predicted set of traits. Repeated plot censuses over 2 years, together with daily monitoring of females and collections of males, documented relatively low densities with males outnumbering females by as much as 2.37:1. The movements of marked males were measured upon rediscovery during daily searches using two methods: tracking individuals from their point of discovery and trials in which males were moved to predetermined positions relative to females. Female movements were measured by marking their hunting positions followed by daily searches of these locations. Female average tenure across their locations was twice that of males (5.05 versus 2.45 days) and the initial moves made by marked males in trials were six times further than initial moves by monitored females (1.76 versus 0.29 m). Male-male conflicts over positions near females are frequent and intense in M. formosipes. By contrast, male fights are rare in the female biased populations of Misumena vatia, a species with similarly extreme SSD. Thus, while extreme SSD may be associated with enhanced mobility of small males during searches for females, it is not precluded by extensive male agonistic encounters.
4149974|The armored spider Monoblemma muchmorei Shear 1978 occurs in the wet subtropical forest of the Caribbean National Forest, Luquillo, Puerto Rico. It is found almost entirely in bamboo litter between 100 and 110 m in elevation and shares this habitat with a number of other species of spiders, ants and other small arthropods. The two sexes come together with no evidence of prior courtship, mate, and may remain in copula for many hours. A small decorated egg sac is produced with only one egg in each sac. The female tends the unusually large spiderling for a week or more and appears to offer some protection from other small invertebrates. For reasons not understood, second instar spiders suffered a high mortality rate, up to 70%. In captivity, the adults may live for eight months or more. Observations on the predator-prey interactions among M. muchmorei and other small invertebrates are reported. At least 30 species of spiders in 16 families are found associated with M. muchmorei in the bamboo litter.
3705401|The predatory behavior of Metleucauge kompirensis (Boes. et Str.), M. yunohamensis (Boes. et Str.) and Metleucauge sp. was studied, and the natural prey of the former two species were collected from their webs. These species did not immobilize their prey by wrapping, but immobilized them only by biting. The lack of immobilization wrapping in Metleucauge can be explained by two different hypotheses: 1) Metleucauge remains in the primitive stage of the evolution of predatory behavior, or 2) the habit of immobilization wrapping has been lost, because Metleucauge captures weakly flying insects (mainly midges and mayflies) which can be immobilized without wrapping.
3705978| Tityus serrulatus Lutz & Mello 1922 (in fact, the form confluenciata within the Tityus stigmurus complex) is an extremely toxic scorpion of considerable medical importance in Brazil. Its rapid spread is partially due to parthenogenesis. Speculation regarding the occurrence of sexual individuals has been resolved by the discovery of a population, described here, having a male-female sex ratio of 1/2.5. Four color morphs of the T. stigmurus complex are described, and it is concluded that T. serrulatus and Tityus lamottei Loureno 1981 are junior synonyms of T. stigmurus (Thorell 1877). 
3705630|A new type of spider integumentary gland with distinctive cuticular morphology was recently described in the Telemidae. Strikingly similar glands have subsequently been found in the Leptonetidae, some Salticidae, and now in the genus Cybaeota (Agelenidae). The spatial distribution of the glands in Cybaeota is described. Their placement on the bodies of these spiders supports the repugnatorial secretion hypothesis proposed for them in the Telemidae. The phylogenetic implications of the scattered distribution of this character in spiders are discussed.
4129791|A checklist of North American solifugae is presented along with their type localities, location of types, known numbers of specimens of each sex collected and the biomic distribution of each species. One hundred ninety-six solifugid species have been recorded in mainland North America, mostly from the United States. Forty-eight species are known from types only. Fifty-five species are known from males only and twenty-four are known from females only. The large hot deserts, Chihuahua and Sonora, contain the majority of collected solifugid species.
3705289|During three summers of environmental monitoring studies in northern Arizona and southern Utah, spiders of 40 species and scorpions of 5 species were collected in pit traps placed on 16 study sites representing 12 vegetative types. Study sites differed in species composition and populations, and seasonal and annual differences are noted.
23610281|We describe here the phenological patterns of the 25 most common ballooning species of spiders caught by a 12.2 m suction trap during an eleven year survey in Switzerland. We aimed at identifying and quantifying the number, position, spread, and relative weight of activity periods for the whole community. Further, we explored the possible link between phenological patterns and habitat use. For this purpose, we used bump-hunting approaches and fitted mixtures of normal distributions to the abundance data. The phenologies can be grouped in four categories, from uni- to quadrimodal. The specific peaks in the timing of ballooning were found between February and November, with most ballooning activity occurring in summer and autumn. For some taxa, it was possible to analyze the data for young instars and adults. For the majority of taxa, the adults' peak appeared between the early and late peaks of immature individuals. Species inhabiting the ground level of open areas, often disturbed by agricultural practices, were clearly dominant in the multimodal categories; spiders living in more closed and stable habitats, such as tree-shrub and herb layers, typically had a single peak of adult dispersal. This discrepancy in phenology may simply reflect different numbers of generations, but may also result from an adaptation to maximize the persistence of populations in unstable habitats.
3705903|The females of Gallieniella blanci Platnick and Legendrena perinet Platnick are described for the first time, as are two new species: Legendrena rothi and Legendrena spiralis.
20788619|Ground invertebrates such as spiders react to changing conditions in their terrestrial environments. Due to climate change, changes of species diversity, community composition and ecological traits (e.g., habitat specialization) can be assumed. Since it is often impossible or impracticable to carry out large-scale investigations concerning the impact of microclimate change on soil arthropods, studies on responses of arthropod communities to simulated climate change at a smaller scale may be a useful alternative. I conducted a field experiment to detect potential changes in species richness, community structure and ecological traits of spiders caused by prolonged drought. In a semi-dry grassland/Juniperus communis heath complex, five 16-m plots were subjected to either a drought (excluding all rain) or non-drought treatment. Activity densities of spiders were measured using pitfall traps from July to September, 2008. Although differences in microclimate between treatments were significant, no significant treatment effect on either species richness or activity densities was found. Ordination analyses (NMDS) and multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) revealed no significant difference in assemblage composition between the treatments, nor were any changes in ecological traits detected. Spiders were not a suitable model group for detecting any changes in the present study, but comparable experiments yielded changes for at least some spider families and especially for microarthropods. For future small-scale studies I recommend a multi-species group approach with micro- and macroarthropods, using a broad spectrum of sampling techniques.
3706342| An overwhelming number of endemic species belonging to the spider genus Dysdera have been reported from the oceanic archipelago of the Canary Islands. A complete taxonomic revision is currently being performed in order to assess the extent of this species' radiation, as well as to supply enough data to place it in a phylogenetic framework. The present article is devoted to the Dysdera species inhabiting the island of Tenerife. A total of 22 species is recognized in Tenerife, including the cosmopolitan Dysdera crocota C.L. Koch 1839. Two new species are described: Dysdera guayota new species and Dysdera hernandezi new species. Ten new synonymies are reported: D. moquinalensis Wunderlich 1991 and D. vilaflorensis Wunderlich 1991 = D. brevispina Wunderlich 1991; D. medinae Wunderlich 1991 = D. cribellata Simon 1883; D. inaequuscapillata Wunderlich 1991 = D. crocota; D. pergrada Wunderlich 1991, D. pseudopergrada Wunderlich 1991, D. tabaibaensis Wunderlich 1991, D. teideensis Wunderlich 1991 and D. teneriffensis Strand 1908 = D. macra Simon 1883; D. obscuripes Wunderlich 1991 = D. propinqua Ribera, Ferrndez & Blasco 1985. Sixteen species are redescribed: D. ambulotenta Ribera, Ferrndez & Blasco 1985; D. brevisetae Wunderlich 1991, D. brevispina Wunderlich 1991; D. chioensis Wunderlich 1991; D. cribellata Simon 1883; D. curvisetae Wunderlich 1987; D. esquiveli Ribera & Blasco 1986; D. gibbifera Wunderlich 1991; D. gollumi Ribera & Arnedo 1994; D. labradaensis Wunderlich 1991; D. macra Simon 1883; D. minutissima Wunderlich 1991; D. montanetensis Wunderlich 1991; D. propinqua Ribera, Ferrndez & Blasco 1985; D. unguimmanis Ribera, Ferrndez & Blasco 1985 and D. volcania Ribera, Ferrndez & Blasco 1985. The females of four species: D. brevisetae, D. brevispina, D. minutissima and D. montanetensis are described for the first time. Females formerly assigned to both D. gibbifera and D. volcania are considered to be incorrect identifications. A neotype is designated for D. macra. The presence of D. rugichelis Simon 1907 in Tenerife is considered to be doubtful. Ecological and distributional patterns of the species are discussed. 
24365301|The diverse colors of animals serve a variety of purposes, from acquiring mates to avoiding predators. Often, color patterns are not static throughout life, but change drastically during development, maturity, and senescence. While recent work has focused on the signaling value of vibrant colors in jumping spiders (Salticidae), we know very little about how colors change as spiders age; such information can provide a context for understanding the functions of and constraints on colorful traits. Focusing on Habronattus pyrrithrix Chamberlin 1924, our goals were to examine (1) the microscopic morphology of the colored body regions that males display to females during courtship (i.e., males' red faces, green legs, and white pedipalps), (2) how the colors of these regions as well as dorsal color patterns change during development prior to sexual maturity, and (3) how male condition-dependent red facial and green leg coloration changes as males age beyond sexual maturity. Although the bright white pedipalps and green legs of males appeared only upon sexual maturity, the sexes began to differentiate in facial coloration and dorsal patterning, with males developing red faces and conspicuous black and white dorsal patterning as young juveniles (ca. 2.5 mm in body length, or ca. 45% of their total mature adult body size). Even after maturity, color was not static; a male's green legs (but not red face) faded with age. Results are discussed in the context of potential functions of and constraints on color in salticids, and how they may change throughout an individual's lifetime.
3705388|Metepeira spinipes F. O. Pickard-Cambridge, a communal/territorial orb-weaver from Mexico, shows considerable geographic variation and temporal flexibility in spacing. A series of laboratory studies was conducted to test whether the variation in spacing observed in the field is solely the result of behavioral plasticity in response to environmental conditions, or the result of mechanisms inherent in different populations (i.e., genetic differences in behavior). Spiders from source populations in desert and moist tropical habitats were collected as eggs and raised in the laboratory under identical controlled conditions. Measurements of three-dimensional spacing parameters in laboratory colonies (nearest neighbor distance, within-colony density) have shown significant differences in spatial organization between populations, suggesting a genetic basis to these differences. Behavioral observations confirm that there are behavioral ecotypes within this species, with levels of sociality adapted to the regions in which they occur.
3706180| Orobothriurus atiquipa new species (Scorpiones, Bothriuridae) from Lomas formations in the coastal desert of southern Per is described and illustrated. This species belongs to the alticola species-group, and within the group, it is closely related to O. alticola (Pocock), O. paessleri (Kraepelin) and O. curvidigitus (Kraepelin). The spine formula (4 + 3) on tarsi III-IV is probably an autapomorphy for the new species. Some features of the habitat (the Lomas formation are green isolates in the coastal desert), as well as a distribution map are provided. /// Se describe Orobothriurus atiquipa nueva especie de escorpin Bothriuridae, colectado en una formacin de Lomas en el desierto costanero del Sur del Per. Esta especie pertenece al grupo alticola; dentro de ste, las especies ms prximas son O. alticola (Pocock), O. paessleri (Kraepelin) y O. curvidigitus (Kraepelin). La frmula de espinulacin tarsal en patas III-IV (4 + 3) es probablemente una autapomorfia de la nueva especie. Se presentan tambin algunos datos del habitat de O. atiquipa (las formaciones de Lomas son verdaderos parches de vegetacin dentro del desierto costero), as como un mapa de distribucin. 
24365320|Animals are commonly categorized as diurnal, nocturnal, or crepuscular depending on the times of day when they are most active. These categories, although convenient, would be more useful if we knew more about how closely animal activity conformed to the labels. Similarly, if we knew more about the degree of nocturnality or diurnality of a particular species, we would have increased understanding of the selective forces acting on it. To clarify the intensity of nocturnality or diurnality in lycosoid spiders, we measured activity in 46 spiders divided among three congeneric species of fishing spiders (Pisauridae) and five species of wolf spiders (Lycosidae), in an austere laboratory setting. Overall, the three pisaurid species, pooled, were less than half as active as the five lycosid species, also pooled. All three species of fishing spiders and four of the five species of wolf spiders were strongly nocturnal in their activity. Only one species, the wolf spider Piratula minuta (Emerton 1885), was diurnal. None of the individual spiders that showed statistically significant nocturnal or diurnal activity (31 of 31 lycosids, 14 of 15 pisaurids) was purely nocturnal or diurnal. In all individual cases except for a single ambivalent Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz 1844 (Pisauridae), statistically strong nocturnality was accompanied by substantial activity during the light hours, and statistically strong diurnality was accompanied by substantial activity during the dark hours. We discuss the overall low variability in activity patterns among the fishing spiders in comparison to the much higher variability among the activity patterns of the wolf spiders, the common but not ubiquitous presence of ultradian periodicities in individual spiders, and the significance of the fact that none of the individual spiders was strictly nocturnal or strictly diurnal.
25654021|The first blind Australian species of Tetrablemmidae and only the fourth in the world, Tetrablemma alaus, new species, is described from subterranean habitats in northwestern Australia. The total loss of eyes is correlated with its subterranean existence and is complemented by other troglomorphies including slightly elongated appendages and pale coloration.
23070794|Four new species of salticids from the neighborhood of Lake Victoria in eastern Africa are described: Heliophanus jacksoni, Icius mbitaensis, Pseudicius athleta and Pseudicius roberti. Icius steeleae Logunov 2004 is recorded for the first time in Uganda.
3705392|In spiders, modes of social organization range from solitary to communal living. The "maternal-social" spiders represent an intermediate step, where the young disperse before adulthood after a gregarious phase of variable length depending on the species. Why does social life disappear in these species? Several arguments lead us to involve trophic factors and to formulate the hypothesis that food shortages, resulting from the increase in the young's food requirements and from the limitation of the colony's prey supply, induce the spiderlings to emigrate. To test this hypothesis, laboratory-reared colonies (mother + offspring) of the funnel-web spider Coelotes terrestris (Wider) were given either an ad-libitum diet, or a reduced diet. We observed that prey consumption increased with developmental age, and that under-fed colonies dispersed significantly earlier than did ad-libitum-fed colonies. The significance of such social plasticity in the evolution of spider societies is discussed.
23610260|Foraging by an organism varies over the season in response to environmental conditions. Predatory arthropods, such as spiders, are frequently in a food-limited state despite their polyphagous habits and may feed opportunistically to enhance rates of growth, survival and reproduction. We predicted that, to circumvent food limitation, spider foraging would be related to prey availability. We examined the extent to which body condition of spiders, a correlate of recent foraging, was related to prey availability and habitat type. Wolf spiders Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844) were collected between May and October in two habitat types, corn and soybean fields. To assess changes in spider condition, we calculated and compared multiple body condition indices derived from morphometric measures of individual spiders. Prey abundance was monitored over the same period using a vacuum suction sampler. Body condition indices provided qualitatively equivalent results. Interestingly, juvenile males were in better condition than adult males, but the opposite was the case for juvenile versus adult females. Although the availability of potential prey generally increased over the growing season, changes in body condition fluctuated independently of prey, suggesting that Pardosa milvina have life history differences in foraging and demand for resources that may influence foraging decisions.
3706364|Habitat distribution patterns of five species of Tetragnatha Latreille 1804 were studied by analyzing 1163 one-hour samples collected at 17 focal sites representing 16 major biotic communities (habitats) in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Tetragnatha versicolor Walckenaer 1841 is a habitat generalist, being common over a wide range of elevations (520-1755 m) and in 10 of the 16 habitats, including seven forest habitats as well as wetland, high grass bald, and grassland habitats. Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz 1850 is virtually restricted to non-wetland grassy habitats, T. elongata Walckenaer 1805 to streams, T. viridis Walckenaer 1841 to hemlock trees, and T. straminea Emerton 1884 to non-forested wetlands (marshes). Microhabitat segregation exists in the high grass bald community between T. versicolor (prefers trees and shrubs) and T. laboriosa (prefers herbs). Size frequency histograms of seasonal samples of T. straminea specimens indicate that this species has a one-year life cycle with six post-emergent instars, and that most individuals overwinter in the antepenultimate instar and mature and mate in May and June. Tetragnatha straminea is able to capture prey with or without using a web and adopts stick-like cryptic postures in three different contexts.
25654006|Around 1000 obligate cave species have been described from the continental United States. This taxonomically diverse group of species contains both terrestrial obligate cave species (troglobites) and aquatic obligate cave species (stygobites). The greatest diversity of troglobites in the United States occurs on the southern Cumberland Plateau in south-central Tennessee and northeastern Alabama. The troglobitic spider Nesticus barri Gertsch 1984 is known from nearly 60 caves in this area. We studied the mitochondrial phylogeographic structuring of this species, sampling individuals from twelve caves across the species' range. We found that N. barri populations within individual caves are generally not genetically diverse; that N. barri is divided into genetically distinct subpopulations, with mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I genetic distances between subpopulations ranging from 0.021 to 0.045; and that female-based migration between caves is minimal or nonexistent, even over small geographic scales (< 15 km). This is the first genetic study of a troglobitic taxon from this biodiverse region. Our results contrast with those from previous studies on stygobitic crayfish from this area, which showed high levels of gene flow between caves.
3705198|The birth and post-birth behavior of the scorpion Syntropis macrura Kraepelin (Scorpionida: Vaejovidae) is described and discussed. Birth of an entire litter of 33 young took approximately 37 hours. The young were precocious, with few of them ascending onto the mother's back. Mortality was high, with only two second instar young surviving. Post-birth associations of the first instar nymphs with the mother are described.
25067878|Males of the araneid genus Cyrtophora Simon 1864 are comparatively rare in collections, possibly because they are much smaller and less conspicuous than their female counterparts and are expected to have a much shorter lifespan. Field work on Christmas Island (Indian Ocean) revealed a male of Cyrtophora unicolor (Doleschall 1857) copulating with a female. Both male and female are described here. The known distribution of C. unicolor is updated to include southern parts of China, Taiwan and Japan in the North, the Philippines and Papua New Guinea to the south-east, Indonesia and Christmas Island to the South, and Thailand, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka to the East. Cyrtophora acrobalia (Thorell 1895), described from a juvenile from Myanmar, is considered a nomen dubium.
3706128|There has been some controversy about whether adult females of social Stegodyphus disperse by ballooning. Here we show that adult Stegodyphus dumicola (Eresidae) Pocock 1898 are able to gain up-lift by releasing a very large number of threads. The threads fan out widely from the spider's body and form a triangular sheet. This previously unknown ballooning mechanism, enables even large spiders to disperse over large distances.
3705988| Ground-dwelling Linyphiidae from eight South Carolina inner coastal plain habitats were sampled for one year using pitfall traps. Habitats formed an age gradient, from a field disturbed yearly and pine stands aged 5, 25 and 40 years, to xeric, mesic and hydric hardwoods (50-75 years) and an oldgrowth forest (200 years). Sixteen of the 55 trapped species were represented in sufficient numbers (n adults  number of sampling periods, 26) to examine patterns of correlation between phenology and habitat distribution. Half of the species are multivoltine, characterized by adults present throughout the year, continuous reproduction, and overlapping generations. Adult abundance of these species peaked during spring through autumn. Other species were univoltine, with adults present briefly, indicating synchronous reproduction and non-overlapping generations. Adult abundance of these species always peaked during winter months. This study examines relationships between observed voltinism patterns and characteristic habitat (distribution among the habitats) among the 16 most abundant species. Species from older habitats tend to be univoltine, whereas species inhabiting more recently disturbed habitats were more likely to be multivoltine. Stenochronous winter reproduction (univoltines) probably increases survivorship by limiting individuals' exposure to the harsh conditions of the southeastern summer during vulnerable periods of immaturity and reproduction. This phenological specialization appears optimal in this region except in frequently disturbed habitats, where rapid multivoltine reproduction is most advantageous. 
3705381|A new species of Vaejovis is described from two localities along the Colorado River in western Arizona. The species is related to Vaejovis spicatus Haradon, to which it is compared. The first known male specimen of V. spicatus is briefly described, and comments on its hemispermatophore are provided. Hemispermatophore morphology of V. spicatus suggests a close phylogenetic relationship of these two species with members of the genus Serradigitus, although they lack several features considered diagnostic for that genus.
3705921|The spider Argyrodes antipodiana (O.P. Cambridge) from New Zealand is a kleptoparasite whose primary host in nature is an orb weaving spider, Aranea pustulosa (Walckenaer). The kleptoparasite's bias towards this host is stronger in the summer than in the winter. In the laboratory, Argyrodes was significantly better at obtaining food on the webs of Aranea pustulosa, than on the webs of Achaearanea sp., and Badumna longinquus (L. Koch). Factors that may be responsible for host preferences and for variation in efficiency on different types of webs are discussed.
3705947|Communities consisting of small shrubs and larger pre-thicket plants of Myrica cerifera (Myricacae) and Baccharis halmifolia (Asteraceae) were sampled by sweepnet in early June, July and August of 1995 to estimate the density and diversity of spider communities associated with these shrubs during early successional stages of thicket development. This was initiated as part of a larger study intended to determine establishment patterns of these two shrubs in graminoid dominated swales (low-lying wetlands between dune ridges). The species Hentzia palmarum (Hentz 1832), Eris flava (Peckham & Peckham 1888) (Araneae, Salticidae) and Misumenops celer (Hentz 1847) (Araneae, Thomisidae) were common to both Myrica and Baccharis; however, densities differed between shrubs. Habronattus agilis (Banks 1893) (Salticidae) was uncommon and only found on Myrica while the infrequent species Poultonella alboimmaculata (Peckham & Peckham 1883) (Salticidae) was only found on Baccharis. The greatest differences in spider densities were between the early transitional swale site and the developing thicket (later transitional swale) site. Insect communities sampled had greater observed differences in structure between the two shrubs than were found with spiders.
23610245|A review of the pseudoscorpion family Ideoroncidae in North and South America has revealed seven genera and 43 species. The genus Albiorix occurs in xeric environments in western USA and in Mexico, with two outlying species in Chile and Argentina. It includes 18 species, including five new species from Mexico (A. meraculus, A. minor, A. oaxaca, A. puebla and A. rosario), and three from USA (A. gertschi, A. sarahae and A. vigintus). Albiorix bolivari is treated as a junior synonym of A. retrodentatus. The genus Ideoroncus has nine species and is endemic to southern Brazil and Paraguay. Pseudalbiorix has four species and occurs in Central America and western Cuba. Typhloroncus has six species from Mexico and U.S. Virgin Islands, including the new species T. planodentatus from Mexico. Xorilbia has three species and occurs in the Amazonian rainforest ecosystems of northern Brazil and southern Venezuela. Two new genera are described: Mahnertius Harvey & Muchmore for the new species M. stipodentatus (type species) and M. hadrodentatus, both from Colombia; and Muchmoreus Harvey for the new species M. ignotus (type species) from Mexico. Several keys are provided, including one to separate the New World genera, and others to distinguish the species of each genus (apart from the monotypic Muchmoreus). The post-embryonic development of New World ideoroncids is reviewed, particularly the trichobothrial patterns of nymphs and adults.
20788629|This paper describes the sexual behavior of Bothriurus buecherli San Martin 1963 and compares it with the rest of the B. prospicuus group. The mating behavior was very similar to other species of the group, but B. buecherli presented some differences in the initial stages, one being a long period of inactivity after the male grasps the female pedipalps. Information presented includes reference to the sexual sting, post-partum copulation, and an analysis of a case of cannibalism by the female.
3705804|The genus Swainsia Marples, 1964, is newly synonymized with Paratheuma Bryant, 1940. The previously unknown male of P. insulana (Banks) and female of P. armata (Marples) are described and illustrated. Habitat data and new distribution records are provided for these two species. The family Desidae is reported from the United States for the first time.
23070788|Palpigradi comprises the most poorly known order within the Arachnida; hence, information regarding their biology and behavior is quite scarce. We document an interaction between a palpigrade of the genus Eukoenenia being preyed upon by a spider of the genus Metagonia in the Gruta do Vale, a cave in the municipal district of Felipe Guerra (Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil). The entire prey recognition and capture process by the Metagonia is described in full detail. Both species involved, Eukoenenia potiguar n. sp. and Metagonia potiguar n. sp., are also described. Metagonia potiguar n. sp. is the first Brazilian cave-dwelling Metagonia to be described.
41317232|We studied occurrence and morphological adaptations of two species of Porrhomma down to 135 cm soil depth. Porrhomma microps Simon 1884 inhabited soil layers at depths between 5 and 135 cm. Porrhomma aff. myops was found at depths of 35-95 cm. Specimens of both species were depigmented and had highly reduced eyes. Compared with the epigean P. pygmaeum (Blackwall 1834), P. myops, which inhabits scree and caves, exhibits significantly longer legs. We interpret it as an example of troglomorphism. Compared with the epigean P. pygmaeum, P. aff. myops is found deep in the soil and exhibits a significantly smaller cephalothorax. We interpret this as edaphomorphism. We assume the edaphomorphic population of P. aff. myops to be permanent soil dwellers.
4489064|We investigated the nest building behavior of Paraphidippus aurantia (Lucas 1833) (Salticidae) following the experimental destruction of their nests. We located 61 nests on 52 pine saplings (43 saplings with one nest, nine with two nests) and carefully displaced all spiders and destroyed their nests. On saplings with two spiders, we removed one spider. Of the 52 nests in which the resident spider was left in place, 29 new nests were constructed in the identical location as the nests we removed. Of the 9 nests in which the resident spider was removed, no new nests were constructed. There were no nests constructed in new locations. Despite other suitable nest site locations, P. aurantia showed extreme nest site fidelity following the disturbance.
25434309|Making use of the recent publication of a catalogue of spider species from Europe and the Mediterranean Basin, we built a computer database which indexes all specific and subspecific taxa reported from countries or islands in Platnick's world catalogue as well as in regional or national catalogues. We used this database to analyze the distribution of conservation values at the West Palearctic scale. Three indices of conservation value were calculated and compared between mainland and island territories: species richness, number of endemic species, and ${\rm I}_{{\rm c}}$, a "Conservation Value Index." Species richness increases with the size of the area being considered, either in islands or in mainland countries, and is highest in Southern Europe. The number of endemics also increases with area, but only for mainland countries, suggesting that different factors determine endemism on islands and in mainland areas. The conservation index shows that several island territories are of a high conservation interest: the Mediterranean and Atlantic islands clearly exhibit the highest conservation value and some islands (mainly Canary and Balearic islands) can be considered hotspots of biodiversity for the West Palearctic area; other hotspots are some small Mediterranean islands.
3705540|A population of the burrowing wolf spider Geolycosa turricola in Mississippi was monitored over a period of 4 years. Weekly censuses of the number of burrows that were active, open but not active, or inactive were taken. The timing of the dispersal of spiderlings was examined by use of caging experiments. A habitat manipulation experiment was used to assess burrow site preferences. This population reproduced on a 2-year cycle; no young were produced in even years. The results suggest that some dispersing spiderlings construct burrows immediately after leaving their mother's burrow while others overwinter and build their first burrow during the spring. Two dispersing groups are identified and are shown to have different survivorship properties. The importance of this dispersal strategy in terms of subsocial behavior is discussed.
3705170|A revision of the North American erigonine genera Diplocentria, Phanetta, Sciastes, Souessoula, Tachygyna and Tunagyna is reported. Five hew genera are erected: Annapolis (type species Sciastes mossi Muma), Masikia (type species M. atra, new species), Subbekasha (type species S. flabellifera, new species), Vermontia (type species Tmeticus thoracicus Emerton) and Wabasso (type species Eulaira questio Chamberlin). All the genera studied are defined chiefly on the basis of the genitalia. New species described are: Masikia atra, M. caliginosa, Sciastes ensifer, S. hastatus, Subbekasha flabellifera, Tachygyna alia, T. cognata, T. coosi, T. exilis, T. proba, T. sonoma, T. speciosa, Tunagyna antricola, and Wabasso cacuminatus. The following synonyms are proposed: Diplocentria replicata Holm = Wabasso questio (Chamberlin); Sciastes fuscus Chamberlin and Ivie = Souessoula parva (Banks); Tachygyna alaskensis Chamberlin and Ivie = T. ursina (Bishop and Crosby); Tachygyna paita Chamberlin = T. haydeni Chamberlin and Ivie; and Tachygyna sima Chamberlin = T. ursina (Bishop and Crosby). Descriptions, diagnoses and distribution maps are given for each species in the genera described.
3705466|An Ummidia trapdoor spider species near San Vito, Costa Rica, prefers steep slopes and open, sparsely wooded, early successional stage habitats. This habitat preference and the paucity of small juvenile burrows near adult burrows are consistent with spiderling dispersal by ballooning, known to occur in other Ummidia species. The entrance and burrow architecture and prey capture and defensive behavior of this species are similar to those of the few other observed Ummidia species. Ummidia's door-holding defensive behavior is described in detail for the first time. Two enigmatic phenomena were observed: door hinges were often tilted well away from the horizontal plane, and one spider was found on two successive afternoons with the anterior half of its body fully exposed as it held onto the inner surface of its fully open trapdoor.
25434286|The species-level diversity of fossil Chelicerata is summarized for each order. 1952 valid species of fossil chelicerates are currently recognized, of which 1593 are arachnids. In order of abundance they are: Araneae (979 fossil species), Actinotrichida (283), Eurypterida (241), Scorpiones (111), Xiphosura (96), Trigonotarbida (71), Pseudoscorpiones (38), Phalangiotarbida (30), Opiliones (25), Ricinulei (15), and Anactinotrichida (11). Other groups are represented by ten fossil species or fewer. Based on published descriptions, spiders thus appear to dominate the fossil arachnid species assemblage, making up a greater proportion of paleodiversity than their Recent diversity would predict. Scorpions are also overrepresented, particularly in the Paleozoic, compared to their modern diversity. By contrast, groups like mites, harvestmen, pseudoscorpions and solifuges are noticeably under-represented as fossils when compared to modern patterns of diversity.
23048801|A new Brazilian species of the genus Eukoenenia is described from a single male specimen collected within the Archimedes Passini cave, a marble cave located in the municipal district of Vargem Alta, Esprito Santo. Eukoenenia spelunca, sp. nov., has six blades on the prosomal lateral organs and a unique shape of the genital lobes. Some morphometric parameters demonstrate the specialization of this new species to the cave environment.
3705554| Variation in the daily activity patterns of Aphonopelma seemanni females was studied during the rainy season in Guanacaste, Costa Rica. Hourly variations were significant (p < 0.05), with a constant pattern throughout the season. The spiders are nocturnal predators that reach the activity peak between 20.30 and 0.30 hours. /// La variacin en el patrn de actividad diaria de las hembras de Aphonopelma seemanni fue estudiada durante la poca lluviosa en Guanacaste, Costa Rica, encontrndose que los cambios durante el da fueron significativos (p < 0.05) con un patrn constante durante toda la estacin. Las araas son eminentemente nocturnas y alcanzan su actividad mxima durante las 20:30 y las 0.30 horas. 
41758985|Parasitoids can have significant impacts on the life history of their hosts, as well as on local population and community dynamics. These effects could be particularly pronounced in the Arctic where the breeding season is short. We studied the incidence and loads of egg sac parasitoids, and whether these varied with body size or among species in three Arctic wolf spider species: Pardosa sodalis Holm 1970, Pardosa lapponica (Thorell 1872) and Pardosa moesta Banks 1892 from the Yukon Territory in northwestern Canada. We found a high incidence of egg sac parasitism (by Gelis sp.) and that the incidence of parasitism increased significantly with body size in two of the spider species; however, it did not change in the largest species. Among the three species investigated, parasitism was highest in the largest species (P. sodalis). Parasitism loads ranged from one to fourteen individuals per egg sac, and incidence reached 29.6% overall in P. sodalis. Parasitism may have significant impacts on the life history of tundra wolf spiders.
3705148|Huitaca ventralis, new genus and species, is described from Colombia. Closest to Metagovea, the new genus differs in the form of the penis and ventral thoracic complex and proportions of the chelicera. A new exocrine gland complex, opening on the first abdominal sternite, is briefly described; its function is not known.
25654015|The stygnopsid harvestman Chinquipellobunus madlae (Goodnight and Goodnight 1967) is known from numerous caves in eleven counties in Texas and is a highly adapted troglobiont (Cokendolpher 2004). Adult and juvenile specimens were extracted in methanol, and the major volatile component of their chemical defense secretion was identified as 2-methyl-5-ethylphenol; a minor component was 2, 5-dimethylphenol. Methylethyl phenols and dimethyl phenols have also been identified in other grassatorid Opiliones, but this is the first report of defensive chemistry from a member of the family Stygnopsidae and from a North American troglobiont harvestman.
3706045| Misumenops asperatus (Hentz 1847) and Misumenoides formosipes (Walckenaer 1837) are diurnally-active, flower-dwelling crab spiders (Thomisidae) commonly inhabiting open fields. In laboratory experiments, both species remained active over a temperature range of approximately 46 C. The spring-maturing M. asperatus tolerated significantly lower temperatures than the summer-maturing M. formosipes (
3705264|The genus Arctosa C. L. Koch, 1848 (= Arkalosula Roewer, 1960, new synonym) is revised for North and Central America. Twelve species are described or redescribed, illustrated, keyed, and mapped: A. raptor (Kulczynski, 1885), new combination (= Lycosa quinaria Emerton, 1894, new synonym); A, emertoni Gertsch, 1934; A. rubicunda (Keyserling, 1877) (= A. imperiosa Gertsch, 1933, new synonym); A. virgo (Chamberlin, 1925); A. lama, new species; A. alpigena (Doleschall, 1852); A. insignita (Thorell, 1872); A. perita (Latreille, 1799); A. minuta F. Pickard-Cambridge, 1902 (= A. cheluncata Petrunkevitch, 1925, new synonym); A. sanctaerosae Gertsch and Wallace, 1935; A. littoralis (Hentz, 1844) (= A. trifida F. Pickard-Cambridge, 1902 and A. panamana Petrunkevitch, 1925, new synonyms); A. serii Roth and Brown, 1976.
20798589|The wolf spider Pardosa sierra was described and illustrated by Banks in 1898 based on specimens from the Sierra de la Laguna, Baja California Sur. Later, two morphologically similar species, P. atromedia Banks 1904 from Claremont, California, and P. sura Chamberlin & Ivie 1941, also from California, were described. However, the latter two species were subsequently synonymized with P. sierra, due to similarities in male genitalia. In this study we test the species limits within this group. We suggest that the details of the epigynum are different enough among the genitalic morphs studied to consider them different species as originally designated. We conducted a morphological and genetic-distance analysis of a fragment of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene sequences of some species of lapidicina group, as well as some sequences of Pardosa astrigera L. Koch 1878 from the GenBank database. Genetic analysis revealed greater genetic distances (GD) among haplotypes of P. sierra, P. atromedia, and P. sura (GD = 0.053-0.069) than with other species of the lapidicina group. Moreover, P. sierra was closest to P. sura (GD = 0.053), P. sura was closest to P. vadosa Barnes 1959 (GD = 0.040), and P. atromedia was closest to P. steva Barnes 1959 (GD = 0.052). Overall, morphological and genetic differences, and disjoint distributions, suggest that the synonymy of P. sierra, P. atromedia, and P. sura was in error, and that these "morphs" do indeed represent different species.
20798597|Adult male Liphistius have dense hair pads on the ventral side of their tarsi. At first glance they appear like the adhesive scopulae, which are well known from mygalomorph spiders. However, a fine structural analysis of these scopulate hairs shows that they lack the brush-like structure with tiny "endfeet" that is typical for such adhensive hairs. Instead, the smooth hair shaft exhibits a small pore ventrally, about 10-8 m from the blunt tip. A thin cuticular canal extends from that pore through the middle of the hair shaft and terminates about 30 m above the hair base. Transmission electron microscopy reveals that this central canal contains about 16 delicate dendrites. The morphology of these scopulate hairs thus corresponds closely to contact chemoreceptors known from other spiders. Since these scopulate hairs occur only in adult males, they are likely involved in the perception of female pheromones.
3704995|The opinion that the Palpigradi are a more primitive order of Arachnida that are the scorpions is taken as evidence that the Arachnida are a polyphyletic class. Their probably marine or littoral ancestors may have been of diverse character.
24717274|Habitat and microhabitat selection by spiders are influenced by abiotic and biotic factors, including vegetation structure, natural enemies, and prey availability. Some species are highly dependent on particular conditions, such as the presence of substrates where they remain camouflaged, constantly humid sites or the occurrence of plants bearing glandular trichomes. Others are distributed in areas that include a wide range of physical conditions and interact with several types of prey, predators and competitors. In the present study, we evaluated spatial distribution and substrate selection of two sympatric congeneric species with distinct body shapes and colors, Eustala taquara (Keyserling 1892) and E. sagana (Keyserling 1893), in an area of Atlantic Forest in southeastern Brazil. We focused on the following factors regarding habitat selection: i) distance from the border (forest edge or interior); ii) altitudinal distribution, ranging from 740 to 1294 m; iii) web height above ground level; and iv) plant species used for web attachment. All individuals of both species were located at the forest edge, especially on dry branches. However, they occurred preferentially in different host plants and altitudes. Eustala taquara individuals were strongly associated with Conyza bonariensis, and E. sagana with Hyptis suaveolens and C. sumatrensis. Dry branch preferences might be important to reduce species conspicuousness to visually oriented predators, such as birds and wasps. Spatial segregation between closely related species possibly minimizes interference interactions, such as competition for particular sites or prey items.
3706071|We describe the reproductive biology of seven theraphosid species from Uruguay. Species under study include the Ischnocolinae Oligoxystre argentinense and the Theraphosinae Acanthoscurria suina, Eupalaestrus weijenberghi, Grammostola iheringi, G. mollicoma, Homoemma uruguayense and Plesiopelma longisternale. Sexual activity periods were estimated from the occurrence of walking adult males. Sperm induction was described from laboratory studies. Courtship and mating were also described from both field and laboratory observations. Oviposition and egg sac care were studied in the field and laboratory. Two complete cycles including female molting and copulation, egg sac construction and emergence of juveniles were reported for the first time in E. weijenberghi and O. argentinense. The life span of adults was studied and the whole life span was estimated up to 30 years in female G. mollicoma, which seems to be a record for spiders. A comprehensive review of literature on theraphosid reproductive biology was undertaken. In the discussion, we consider the lengthy and costly sperm induction, the widespread display by body vibrations of courting males, multiple mating strategies of both sexes and the absence of sexual cannibalism.
25067875|The spider genus Enna is revised and the five previously known species [E. estebanensis (Simon 1898) (Venezuela), E. jullieni (Simon 1898) (Panama, Colombia), E. minor Petrunkevitch 1925 (Panama, Colombia), E. nesiotes Chamberlin 1925 (Panama) and E. velox O. Pickard-Cambridge 1897 (type species) (Mexico)] are redescribed. Dossenus redundans Platnick, 1993 is transferred to Enna and is redescribed and illustrated. Descriptions of 18 new species include the following: E. baeza (Ecuador), E. bartica (Guyana), E. braslandia. (Brazil), E. bonaldoi (Brazil) E. caliensis (Colombia), E. chickeringi (Honduras), E. colonche (Ecuador), E. eberhardi (Costa Rica, Panama), E. hara (Peru), E. huanuco (Peru), E. huarinilla (Bolivia), E. igarape (Brazil), E. kuyuwiniensis (Guyana), E. maya (Honduras, Panama), E. paraensis (Brazil), E. pecki (Costa Rica), E. riotopo (Ecuador) and E. rothi (Ecuador). The type of E. approximata (O. Pickard-Cambridge), collected in Bugaba, Panama, is based on a juvenile and is considered as a nomen dubium. Similarities in the geographical distributions of species of Enna with the distributions of species in the genera Trechalea and Hesydrus are noted.
3705088|This is the first of a series of papers reviewing the systematics of the arachnid order Schizomida in the New World. The four species of the family Protoschizomidae are redescribed. Seven species groups of Schizomus (family Schizomidae) are recognized in the New World. The 13 species of the dumitrescoae group are described in this part. These are Schizomus decui Dumitresco, S. dumitrescoae n. sp., S. cousinensis n. sp., S. primibiconourus n. sp., S. longipalpus n. sp., S. brevipatellatus n. sp., S. gladiger Dumitresco, S. monensis n. sp., S. desecheo n. sp., S. biconourus n. sp., S. insignis Hansen, S. peckorum n. sp., and S. viridis n. sp.
4129860|A new type of stridulatory organ is described and figured occurring in three species of Mallinella Strand from Thailand and Singapore. In one species there are four stridulatory organs, with the ridges on femora I and II and the pegs in the shape of granulations on femora II and III. In both the other species an additional pair occurs, with ridges on femora III and pegs on femora IV. To date no more than four stridulatory organs have been recorded on a single spider. Examples of various known forms of stridulatory organs on spiders are illustrated and their significance briefly discussed.
25067867|The name Araneus beebei Levi 1941 is replaced by Araneus aragua. Araneus raui Levi 1973 is replaced by Araneus missouri. The species Araneus phrygiatus (Walckenaer 1842) is not recognizable based on the original description and considered a nomen dubium.
3706181| The species Metacleobis fulvipes Roewer 1934 (Solifugae, Mummuciidae), previously known only from the male holotype, is redescribed based on the holotype and other male and female specimens. Illustrations of the main diagnostic characters are provided, and new occurrences of this species in Brazil are reported. Some behavioral observations of one individual kept in a terrarium are given. /// A espcie Metacleobis fulvipes Roewer 1934 (Solifugae, Mummuciidae), conhecida previamente apenas pelo holtipo macho,  redescrita a partir do holtipo e de outros exemplares machos e fmeas. Ilustraes dos principais caracteres so fornecidas e novas ocorrncias da espcie no Brasil so registradas. So descritas observaes comportamentais feitas a partir de um indivduo mantido em terrrio. 
3706148|Observations on the wolf spider Schizocosa mccooki in northern California grasslands reveal previously unreported burrowing behavior, known to occur in only one other member of the genus. Adult and penultimate female S. mccooki may occupy burrows that vary widely in depth and the occurrence of silk linings. Mark-resight techniques revealed burrow fidelity spanning several weeks for individual spiders. Behaviors such as courtship and prey consumption can occur at, but are not restricted to, the entrances to these burrows. Burrows appear to offer daytime shelter for S. mccooki, though it remains unclear whether protection from predators or amelioration of abiotic conditions is the primary basis for burrow use.
3706321|We extend detection of arthropod predator gut contents by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), heretofore restricted to insect predators, to spiders. Single individuals of the corn lead aphid, Rhopalosiphum maidis, were detected in the guts of spiderlings of Oxyopes salticus up to 12 h after feeding; individuals of the congeneric bird cherry oat aphid, R. padi, were not detected. Unfed O. salticus and Misumenops sp. were also negative.
3705730|In the field in Nagano Prefecture, mature females of Sitticus fasciger (Simon, 1880) oviposit several times from June to July in their nests. The nest for oviposition is made in a cavity on a wall. The egg-mass size of reared spiders varies from six to 13 eggs. Spiderlings molt five or six times and mature in late July to early August of the next year from hatching. The duration from egg to adult, which includes days of overwintering, varies from 377 to 428 days. A few adults copulate before overwintering, however, the majority copulate in May or June of the year following maturation. All females oviposit in early summer of the year following maturation. It was confirmed that the life history of this species in Nagano Prefecture is a two-year cycle. The population of this species in Nagano Prefecture consists of two groups in which their generation cycles differ from each other. It seems that the mechanism avoiding the reproductive isolation among these two groups is the intergenerational copulation between just matured females and surviving males which matured in the previous year.
3705470|Based on the lack of the tarsal process and genitalic features, Stenostygnus pusio Simon 1879 is transferred from the Stygnidae to the Biantidae. This is the first record of the family Biantidae from Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador. The subfamily Caribbiantinae is synonymized with Stenostygninae. Genera and species other than Stenostygnus pusio, formerly placed in the Stenostygninae are transferred to Heterostygninae (Stygnidae). The convergences between Stygnidae and Biantidae are presented and discussed.
3706088|Oedothorax gibbosus (Blackwall 1841) (Erigoninae, Linyphiidae, Araneae) is a dwarf spider characterized by dimorphic males. There is a "gibbosus" male morph characterized by a hunch on the posterior third of the carapace, anterior to which is a hairy groove, and a "tuberosus" morph without these features. We observed several gustatorial courtship interactions by a gibbosus male morph and a conspecific female as well as a by a gibbosus male and a male of the closely related species, Oedothorax fuscus (Blackwall 1834). These interactions suggest that the hairy groove in the gibbosus male morph is a nuptial feeding device possibly under the influence of sexual selection. The interspecific interactions can possibly be interpreted as 'robbings' of the nuptial feeding. The interspecific interactions indicate that the cephalic structure of gibbosus probably does not function as a "lock and key" mechanism.
4129828|Of the 13,800 species distributed in the Holarctic Region only 395 are known both from Eurasia and North America. Of these only 105 species are distributed throughout the whole Holarctic (circum-Holarctic species). In addition, 28 species have an almost complete Holarctic distribution, occurring from Europe to northwestern North America (subcircum-Holarctic species). Species with a circum-Holarctic distribution were found in 13 families. The highest numbers of circum-Holarctic species were in the families Linyphiidae (37), Theridiidae (14), Araneidae (13) and Gnaphosidae (11). The percentage of the circum-Holarctic species among the Holarctic spiders is highest in Philodromidae (2.4%), Araneidae (2.2%), Theridiidae (2.0%) and Tetragnathidae (1.9%). These families encompass mainly herb-bush-tree dwellers. Somewhat unexpectedly it was found that most circum-Holarctic species occupy the boreonemoral zone (41%), or may even have a polyzonal range (23%). Twenty-nine species (28%) of the circum-Holarctic spiders have a northern distribution; most of them occurring both in arctic and boreal zones.
3705366|A Mecynogea lemniscata (Walck.) female with egg sacs removes her orb web by breaking the peripheral anchoring threads and the upper and lower guying threads attached to the surrounding labyrinth. The collapsed web then loosely surrounds the egg sac string which hangs above the open hub of the formerly intact web. Repeated trips by the spider around this fluffy mass tightly wraps it around the egg sac string. The collapsed orb then becomes an additional layer of silk added to the covering of the egg sacs and thus contributes to the survival success of the eggs and young in their exposed position. This previously unknown secondary use of the destroyed orb is a third alternative to two well-known fates, i.e. whether it is ingested or discarded.
3705434|The courtship of Thelechoris karschi, an African funnelweb mygalomorph spider, consists of an early non-contact phase of vibratory signaling and then a contact phase involving leg-fencing and, sometimes, lunging. Eventually the male clasps the female's pedipalps with his first tibial apophyses, tilts her upwards and backwards, and attempts to insert his palpal organs alternately. There was much variation among successful courtships in the amount of aggression (lunging and chasing). Mating was characterized by numerous bouts of unsuccessful palpal insertation attempts, relatively few successful insertations, and a tendency for repeated courtships and copulations. It is pointed out that ample opportunity for sexual selection by female choice exists during these courtships and copulation attempts, and that the lengthy and repeated copulations may be, in part, a consequence of genital anatomy.
3705432|The fitness of Frontinella pyramitela (Walckenaer) (Araneae, Linyphiidae) is, by definition, a function of its lifetime fecundity and the survivorship of its offspring. In the present study, I sought the major determinants of fecundity in a laboratory setting and then evaluated the results in the context of several published field studies. According to this analysis, the primary determinants are female longevity, foraging success, and size. The data also permitted the calculation of an expected relative contribution to total fecundity of each clutch of eggs: because the fertility rate drops sharply after the second clutch is deposited, early mortality is disproportionately detrimental to lifetime fecundity.
20617601|New data on the distribution and systematics of Patagonian species of the scorpion genus Urophonius Pocock 1893 are provided. A species of this genus from Pennsula Valds in central eastern Argentinean Patagonia, Urophonius martinezi new species, is described. The surface activity period of most of the species of the genus is reviewed and clearly established. A distribution map as well as a key for the Patagonian species of the genus are provided.
3705538|Schizocosa stridulans new species is a sibling species to S. ocreata and S. rovneri. Both males and females of S. stridulans are very similar to males and females of S. ocreata and S. rovneri in coloration and genitalia, but are significantly smaller in carapace length and width. Mature males of S. stridulans lack a distinctive tuft of bristles on the tibia of the first pair of legs (present in mature males of S. ocreata, absent in mature males of S. rovneri); however, the tibia, patella and the distal 1/3 to 1/2 of the femur of legs I of males of S. stridulans are darkly pigmented. S. stridulans is found in mesic uplands leaf litter from Tennessee, Kentucky, Illinois, Ohio, Missouri, Mississippi, and Alabama, and sometimes co-occurs with S. ocreata. Male palps and female epigyna are figured for S. stridulans and for S. rovneri for the first time.
3706118| Eight species of the genus Freya Koch 1846, closely related with the type species Freya decorata (Koch 1846), are revised and redescribed: F. decorata, F. regia (G. & E. Peckham 1896), F. maculatipes (Cambridge 1901), F. nigrotaeniata (Mello-Leito 1945) new combination, F. rubiginosa (Koch 1846), new combination. The female of F. nigrotaeniata is described for the first time. Three new species are described: F. dureti from Brazil, F. chapare from Bolivia and F. atures from Venezuela. Diagnostic characters for the genus are given. /// Ocho especies del gnero Freya Koch 1846, estrechamente relacionadas con la especie tipo Freya decorata (Koch 1846), son revisadas y redescriptas: F. decorata (Koch 1846), F. regia (G. & E. Peckham 1896), F. maculatipes (Cambridge 1901), F. nigrotaeniata (Mello-Leito 1945) nueva combinacin y F. rubiginosa (Koch 1846) nueva combinacin. Las hembras de F. nigrotaeniata se describen por primera vez. Se describen tres especies nuevas: F. dureti de Brasil, F. chapare de Bolivia y F. atures de Venezuela. Se dan caracteres diagnsticos del gnero. 
25434299|Several studies have reported that plant structural components can exert strong influences on the density and distribution of spiders. However, little is known about which plant traits mediate specific associations between spiders and plants. In southeastern Brazil, the lynx spider Peucetia flava Keyserling 1877 (Oxyopidae) is commonly found on the plant Rhyncanthera dichotoma (Melastomataceae), a shrub that bears glandular trichomes. In this study we investigated if Peucetia occurs strictly on Rhyncanthera and what plant parameters influence the spiders' distribution. In addition, we recorded the vertical distribution of spiders of different ages in the plant canopy. Throughout the year Peucetia was observed only on the glandular plant Rhyncanthera, indicating that this association is specific and predictable. Statistical analysis showed no difference in the number of spiders between plants of Rhyncanthera with and without flowers, suggesting that this specific association is mediated by the presence of glandular trichomes, and not by reproductive structures. The distribution of Peucetia over the year was related to the number of arthropods on plants, as well as the number of leaves and height of the host plants, indicating that Peucetia probably choose sites of high food availability. Adults and subadults occurred on higher places on the crown than young and juveniles.
3705258|Seven species of the genus Ricinoides (originally Cryptostemma) are known. On the basis of some new material of Ricinoides afzelii Thor. and type material of all species, new descriptions of the seven species are given. Especially stressed is the taxonomic value of the tubercles and scales on the pedipalps and the detailed structure of the male copulatory apparatus.
24365323|The feeding ecology of most Oecobius species is poorly understood; nevertheless, the limited literature available suggests that obligate myrmecophagy is common in this genus. Recent evidence suggests that some species might do not share this trait, but could be locally specialized predators. We describe the diet and prey selectivity of the spider Oecobius concinnus (Simon 1893), a common pantropical species. Samplings of actual and potential prey for this species were made in the city of Ibagu, Colombia. Ants were the dominant prey. Other prey included in its diet were dipterans. These results suggest that O. concinnus is not an obligate myrmecophagous spider. Nevertheless, further studies will evaluate other aspects of the biology of this species to reveal its trophic strategy.
3705975|Two aspects of pholcid reproductive biology are reviewed and appear best explained by sexual selection by female choice: the rapid and divergent evolution of male chelicerae (and clypei in some groups) which contact the female epigynum during copulation and probably act as copulatory courtship devices; and the often exceptionally strong pedipalps in males, which possibly function in correlation with the 'valve' in the internal female genitalia.
3706120|Vaejovis pequeno, a new species of scorpion previously confused with V. waueri Gertsch & Soleglad 1972, is described and illustrated from Sonora, Mexico and is compared to that species. A revised diagnosis and new distributional records for V. waueri, a member of the eusthenura group, are provided.
41317231|New data are provided on larvae of terrestrial Parasitengona mites parasitizing spiders. Larvae of Erythraeidae and Trombidiidae are recorded as parasites of spiders representing five families. Members of Philodromidae and Tetragnathidae (Pachygnatha clercki Sundevall 1823) are reported as hosts of Trombidioidea for the first time. The available information indicates that some Trombidiidae have a narrow host range with affinity to spiders, whereas the Erythraeidae are more opportunistic parasites.
25067833|Although Mesobuthus scorpions in China have become endangered in recent years, they are largely underinvestigated. Even the baseline data on their distributions are lacking. Here the geographical distributions of two Mesobuthus scorpions in China are provided through a combined study of systematic field surveys and GIS-based ecological niche modeling using 227 surveyed point occurrence data across an area of ca. 2800  1700
3706087|The pholcid spider Holocnemus pluchei (Scopoli 1763) competes for food with conspecifics, and spiders reared on high food levels are generally larger. In this study, we examined whether larger female body size (as estimated by tibia-patella length) translated into increased reproductive success in the form of increased clutch size, clutch weight, and average egg weight. Larger spiders had more eggs and thus heavier clutches, but there was no relationship between maternal size and average egg weight. We also looked for a tradeoff between average egg weight and egg number, and we found a weak relationship in which average egg weight was highest for intermediate-sized clutches. Larger female body size thus translates into increased reproductive success in terms of egg number and clutch weight, but not weight of individual eggs.
40233822|Two species of Chinchippus (Ammotrechidae) were studied in central Peru. Both species are endemic to the hyper-arid coastal desert and appear to derive most of their energy and nutrients from maritime prey, such as intertidal amphipods feeding on beach-cast algae or as arthropod scavengers feeding upon seabird and pinniped carcasses. Data on the spatial distribution of the two species were obtained from analyzing stomach contents of one common predator, the gecko Phyllodactylus angustidigitus, and suggest that both species are more abundant in insular than in mainland habitats. We redescribe Chinchippus peruvianus Chamberlin 1920, known only from a female specimen and describe the male for the first time while C viejaensis is recognized as new. The new species is distinguished from C. peruvianus by its darker coloration, smaller size, and differences in cheliceral dentition.
4489066|Maraca is proposed as a new name for Iracema Perez-Miles 2000 because it is preoccupied by Iracema Triques 1996 (Pisces). Two new combinations are established.
25654022|Nephila spiders are famous for extreme sexual size dimorphism, with females an order of magnitude larger than males. The proximal developmental mechanism for the sexual size dimorphism is extended development in females: they have many more juvenile instars than males. During an experimental rearing of Nephila clavipes (Linnaeus 1767) from two populations, we discovered that females cannot reach sexual maturity on diets that are qualitatively and quantitatively sufficient for male maturation. Here we describe the dietary regimes that produced sexually mature females and the life history implications of these requirements.
3705848|Cyrtophora moluccensis is a semi-social tropical spider that builds colonies that may contain hundreds of individuals of that species plus several other species. Studies in Yap were undertaken to determine the time required for development from egg to sexual maturity. The smaller instars were cage reared; and in the field, the larger instars were marked for observation. Although the duration of different instars is similar, there is considerable variation among individuals. Each instar lasts about 11 days. After emerging from the cocoon, males mature in about two months, and females in about four months. Mating occurs only near mid-day, and females may mate more than once. Each cocoon averages 1250 eggs, and nearly all the eggs hatch and emerge from the cocoon. The time between production of the cocoon and emergence of the young is about 25 days. Although one female produced seven cocoons, females typically produce three or four cocoons at 10-23 day intervals.
4489039|Artesian springs, commonly referred to as mound springs, are isolated unique threatened wetlands in arid central Australia that harbor a large number of endemic and relict species. Wolf spiders (Lycosidae) are the dominant invertebrate predators in mound springs and are the most abundant spider family present. Nine species are common, five of which are known to occur in other Australian wetland habitats, such as river floodplains and lakeshores: Artoria howquaensis Framenau 2002, Hogna crispipes (L. Koch 1877) new combination (= Trochosa pulveresparsa (L. Koch 1877) new synonymy; = Geolycosa tongatabuensis (Strand 1911) new synonymy; = Tarentula tanna Strand 1913 new synonymy; = Lycosa waitei Rainbow 1917 new synonymy; = Lycosa strenua Rainbow 1920 new synonymy; = Lycosa rainbowi (Roewer 1951) new synonymy), Venatrix arenaris (Hogg 1905), V. fontis Framenau & Vink 2001, and V. goyderi (Hickman 1944). Four species commonly found in mound springs are described as new: Artoria victoriensis new species, Hogna diyari new species, H. kuyani new species, and Tetralycosa arabanae new species. Venatrix fontis and T arabanae are mainly found at mound springs and have only rarely been recorded from other wetland habitats. Tetralycosa Roewer 1960 is revalidated with Lycosa meracula Simon 1909 as type species. The genus is defined by its unique male pedipalp morphology with a deeply divided tegulum that carries a mesally directed spur on its retrolateral section opposing the hook- shaped median apophysis. Three Australian species are transferred to Tetralycosa: T. alteripa (McKay 1976) new combination, T. eyrei (Hickman 1944) new combination and T. oraria (L. Koch 1876) new combination (= Trochosa candicans (L. Koch 1877) new synonymy; = Lycosa meracula Simon 1909 new synonymy). Hogna pexa (Hickman 1944) new combination, an Australian wolf spider closely related to Hogna kuyani new species, is transferred from Pardosa.
23610229|Euophrys ambigua C.L. Koch 1846 is again transferred, becoming Freya ambigua, COMBINATION RESTORED. This jumping spider species, native to northern South America, has been found in North America in the southern parts of two of the states of the USA: Florida (Broward, Hillsborough, Manatee, Miami-Dade, and Pinellas counties) and Texas (Cameron and Hidalgo counties). Previously known from Colombia, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela, it is now also recorded from Brazil and French Guiana. Two other names are reported as NEW SYNONYMS: Menemerus fannae Peckham & Peckham 1896 and Freya perelegans Simon 1902. A lectotype is designated for Menemerus fannae. The female of F. ambigua is described for the first time.
3705143| The study of the type specimens of the species of Eustiromastix as well as from some large collections of undetermined material, has allowed us to establish the following new combinations and synonymies: Eustiromastix rufohirtus Simon, 1902=Freya rufohirta (Simon, 1902) n.comb.; Evophyrys keyserlingi Taczanowski, 1879 = Eustiromastix keyserlingi (Taczanowski, 1879) n.comb.; E. styliferus Simon, 1902 = E. major Simon, 1902; Theratoscirtus affinis Caporiacco, 1954 = E. major Simon, 1902; E. obscurus Mello-Leito, 1942 [non E. obscurus (Peckham & Peckham, 1893)]= E. parobscurus Roewer, 1951 = E. pantherinus Mello-Leito, 1942. The name Eustiromastix obscurus Mello-Leito, 1942 is a primary homonym of E. obscurus (Peckham & Peckham, 1893), type species of the genus. The species was given the new name E. parobscurus Roewer, 1951. In the present paper we establish that E. obscurus Mello-Leito, 1942 and E. pantherinus Mello-Leito, 1942 are synonyms, so the taxon has three synonyms. The name E. obscurus Mello-Leito, 1942 must be rejected because it is a primary homonyn and we adopted for the species the name E. pantherinus Mello-Leito, 1942 which is an available synonym older than E. parobscurus Roewer, 1951. E. pantherinus Mello-Leito, 1942 is not an Eustiromastix species and will be transferred to another genus, now under study. E. guianae Caporiacco, 1954 and E. chaperi Simon, 1902, are considered species inquirenda because the type specimens are lost and the original descriptions are imperfect. Some confusion seems to have occurred with the drawing of the palp of E. chaperi by E. Simon. E. obscurus (Peckham & Peckham, 1893), E. vincenti (Peckham & Peckham, 1893) and E. moraballi Mello-Leito, 1940 are redescribed. The characteristics of the female of E. major Simon, 1902, are given for the first time. Three new species are described: E. bahiensis n.sp. and E. macropalpus n.sp. from Brazil and E. intermedius n.sp. from Venezuela. /// El estudio de los ejemplares tpicos de las especies de Eustiromastix as como de abundantes colecciones de material indeterminado, ha permitido establecer las siguientes nuevas combinaciones y sinonimias: Eustiromastix rufohirtus Simon, 1902 = Freya rufohirta (Simon, 1902) n.comb.; Evophrys keyserlingi Taczanowski, 1879 = Eustiromastix keyserlingi (Taczanowski, 1879) n.comb.; E. styliferus Simon, 1902 = E. major Simon, 1902; Theratoscirtus affinis Caporiacco, 1954 = E. major Simon 1902; E. obscurus Mello- Leito, 1942 [no E. obscurus (Peckham y Peckham, 1893)] = E. parobscurus Roewer, 1951 = E. pantherinus Mello-Leito, 1942. El nombre Eustiromastix obscurus Mello-Leito, 1942 es un homnimo primario de E. obscurus (Peckham y Peckham, 1893), especie tipo del gnero. La especie recibi el nuevo nombre de E. parobscurus Roewer, 1951. En la presente publicacin se establece que E. obscurus Mello-Leito 1942 y E. pantherinus Mello-Leito 1942 son sinnimos, por lo cual el taxon tiene tres nombres sinnimos. Se adopta para la especie el nombre de E. pantherinus Mello-Leito, 1942 que es un sinnimo utilizable, ms antiguo que el de E. parobscurus Roewer 1951. E. pantherinus Mello-Leito, 1942 no es Eustiromastix y ser transferida a otro gnero, actualmente en estudio. E. guianae Caporiacco, 1954 y E. chaperi Simon, 1902 se consideran species inquirenda porque los tipos se han perdido y las descripciones originales son imperfectas. Parece haber existido alguna confusin por parte de E. Simon con el dibujo del palpo de E chaperi. E. obscurus (Peckham y Peckham, 1893), E. vincenti (Peckham y Peckham, 1893) y E. moraballi Mello-Leito, 1940 se redescriben. Se dan por primera vez los caracteres de la hembra de E. major Simon, 1902. Se describen tres nuevas especies: E. bahiensis n.sp. y E. macropalpus n.sp. de Brasil y E. intermedius n.sp. de Venezuela. 
25434331|Analysis of ecological data of the arboricolous nephilid spider Clitaetra irenae Kuntner 2006, endemic to Maputaland forests, South Africa, indicates the species' dependence on this highly threatened habitat. We tested C. irenae habitat dependence via GIS analysis by plotting the known distribution against southern African ecoregions. In the southern part of its range, C. irenae inhabits almost exclusively one ecoregion, the Maputaland coastal plain forests; but further north, in tropical southern Africa, it continues inland into Malawi's woodlands. We test and refute the hypotheses that C. irenae inhabits exclusively mature trees, trees of a particular species, trees with a smooth bark, tree habitats at certain height above ground, and only closed canopy forest stands. The ecological niche of C. irenae is flexible as long as suitable trees under at least partially closed canopy are available. We quantify the C. irenae ontogenetic web changes from orb to ladder and the simultaneous hub displacement towards the top frame. Such web allometry allows the web to increase vertically but not horizontally, which enables the spider to remain on the same tree throughout its development and thus the ladder web architecture is an adaptation to an arboricolous life style. Adult hub displacement, common in spiders with vertical webs, is explained by gravity. Clitaetra irenae web orientation on trees correlates with forest closure, and might indicate the Maputaland forest quality. We argue for utilization of the ecology of arboricolous nephilid orb-weaving spiders (Clitaetra and Herennia) in systematic conservation assessments in the Old World tropics. /// Analise van ekologiese data van die boombewonende nephilid spinnekop Clitaetra irenae Kuntner 2006, endemies tot Maputaland woude in Suid-Afrika, dui die spesie se afhanklikheid van hierdie hoogs bedreigde habitat aan. Ons het C. irenae habitat afhanklikheid via GIS analiese getoets deur die bekende verspreiding teen die suider-Afrikaanse ekologiese streke aan te teken. In die suidelike deel van die verspreiding kom C. irenae in slegs een ekostreek, die Maputaland kusvlakte woude, voor, maar verder noord in die verspreiding kom dit verder in die binneland, in Malawiese bosveld, voor. Ons toets en verwerp die hipotesisse dat C. irenae slegs volgroeide bome bewoon, bome van 'n spesifieke spesie, bome met gladde bas, boomhabitatte op 'n sekere hoogte van die grond af, en slegs toe kroonbedekking woude. Die ekologiese nis van C. irenae is aanpasbaar solank daar geskikte bome onder ten minste gedeeltelike toe kroonbedekking beskikbaar is. Ons kwantifiseer C. irenae ontogenetiese webveranderings van 'n wawiel- na 'n leerweb en die gelyktydige verskuiwing van die kern na die bokant van die raam. Sulke web allometrie gee die spinnekop die vermo om die web vertikaal te vergroot sonder horisontale veranderings, wat die spinnekop in staat stel om op dieselfde boom te bly regdeur sy ontwikkeling. Ons sien die leerweb dus as 'n aanpassing tot boomlewende gewoontes. Volwasse kern verskuiwing, algemeen in spinnekoppe met vertikale webbe, word deur gravitasie verduidelik. C. irenae se web orintasie op bome korreleer met kroonbedekking, en kan 'n aanduider wees van Maputaland woud kwaliteit. Ons stel voor dat nephilid wawiel-web spinnekoppe (Clitaetra en Herennia) se ekologie gebruik word in sistematiese bewarings assesserings in die Ou Wreld tropiese gebiede.
3706332|A variety of arthropods forage and avoid predators via locomotion on the surfaces of ponds and streams. For these animals, cuticular hydrophobicity functions to keep them dry and well supported by the water's surface tension, and also allows them to move easily between wet and dry habitats. Among spiders, members of the family Pisauridae exemplify this semi-aquatic lifestyle and, not surprisingly, these spiders remain entirely dry even when submerged. In the current study, we sought to quantify the degree to which spiders in a variety of families resist wetting by liquid water. Two properties of a spider's cuticular hairs are predominant in determining this resistance: adhesion energy (a consequence of molecular interactions between the hair surface and water) and hair density. When hair density is low, the adhesion energy of the cuticle itself also plays a role. Among the ten families we studied, pisaurids and pholcids defined the ends of the spectrum of resistance, with the pisaurids nearly 50 times more resistant to wetting than the pholcids. We discuss both the impact of this variation on spiders' potential for aquatic locomotion and the variety of selective forces that may have contributed to this impressive variation in capabilities.
25067808|In many vertebrate systems, early experience has been linked to the learning of species-specific traits that are subsequently assessed during mate choice, thus ensuring conspecific matings. In invertebrate systems, however, early experience was not thought to play a role in mate choice until a recent study using Schizocosa uetzi Stratton 1997 wolf spiders demonstrated that females mate more readily with males of a familiar versus unfamiliar phenotype. The function of early mate choice learning in this system is not yet known, but a role in learning species-specific traits seems unlikely. In northwestern Mississippi, S. uetzi is found sympatrically with S. stridulans Stratton 1991, which matures slightly earlier in the season. If S. uetzi early mate choice learning functions in learning species-specific traits used in mate choice, as is often the case in vertebrate systems, then subadult female exposure to heterospecifics (S. stridulans) could result in heterospecific matings. Here, I exposed subadult S. uetzi females to courtship advances from mature males of either S. uetzi (conspecifics) or S. stridulans (heterospecifics) in order to test a species-specific mate choice learning function. Previously exposed females were paired with a mature male of the same, or the opposite, species as their exposure male. As expected, the results do not support a species-specific mate choice learning function. Previously exposed females mated significantly more with conspecific males regardless of their exposure treatment, as did unexposed females. The highest premating sexual cannibalism rates occurred in heterospecific mate choice trials regardless of the exposure treatment, and exposed females were more likely to cannibalize males than unexposed females. While previous results demonstrate that subadult experience influences conspecific mate choice, a species recognition template seems to exist that is independent of the influence of early experience. The potential influence of multimodal signal interactions on conspecific mate choice learning is discussed.
3705622|Arthropods were collected monthly during a 13-month period from Spanish moss on water oak trees in Leroy Percy State Park, Washington County, Mississippi. Of the ca 2000 arthropods collected, spiders (600), bettles (600), chalcidoid wasps (500), and miscellaneous insects (300) represented the major groups. Peak population levels of spiders occurred in spring and fall, as did the occurrence of various crop pests. Spiders were represented by 13 families, 22 genera, and 29 species. Seventy percent of the total spider sample was composed of two species that breed in Spanish moss, Metaphidippus tillandsiae Kaston and Anyphaena maculata (Banks). Steadily declining non-spider anthropod populations in Spanish moss throughout the fall-winter-spring period suggest that the predatory activity of spiders may have an effect on over-wintering arthropod populations.
3705426|The antrodiaetid trapdoor spider genus Aliatypus is found in a wide range of elevations and habitats, nearly all of which experience the summer drought characteristic of the California Mediterranean climate. All eleven species prefer sheltered, stable, and sloping ground surfaces. Burrows tend to be clustered, sometimes very densely, in favorable sites and are often side-by-side with those of non-congeneric mygalomorphs. Burrows penetrate more or less perpendicular to the ground surface plane, are usually more nearly horizontal and slightly wider at the upper and lower ends, and are lined with silk and a packed soil casing. The shape of the wafer-type trapdoor is relatively constant within each species and differs markedly from one species group to another. Aliatypus trapdoor construction behavior differs from the collar-door construction behavior of Antrodiaetus only by a simple orientation rule. Entrance sealing with silk or silk plus soil plugs is common in at least some species during the dry summer. For nearly all species, male emergence, mating, and spiderling dispersal occur during the wet fall or winter period. Females oviposit in the summer. The pendulous egg sac is placed in the burrow bottom. Clutch size varies from 8-267; small-bodied species have smaller clutches than large-bodied species. Prey capture resembles that of Antrodiaetus but is constrained by the trapdoor hinge. Hypotheses are presented regarding the selective advantage of various traits. It is postulated that a simple genetic change causing a shift from collar-door to trapdoor construction was a key evolutionary event permitting the adaptive shift of the proto-Aliatypus lineage into the summer-drought niche which its collar-door-building sister taxa are not able to exploit.
4489053|Three regions of Brazilian Amazonia within the state of Rondonia were searched for the presence of solifuges by means of pitfall traps. A new solifuge, Mummucia taiete, was found at two sites inside Vilhena region, which are "Cerrado" enclaves surrounded by Amazonian forest. This new species is described here and is the seventh from Brazil. Populations of M. taiete from these two sites were compared regarding some autoecological parameters. Results showed populations from the two sites are similarly diurnal and male biased, as observed in M. mauryi and M. coaraciandu. On the other hand, these populations differ in density and juvenile/adult ratio.
23610290|The life history of a palpigrade is reconstructed through morphological and morphometric multivariate analyses applied to a series of 37 individuals collected in a single locality in Tlalnepantla, Estado de Mxico, during different seasons. Those analyses reveal the presence of three life stages: protonymph, deutonymph and adult. Morphologically, males and females can be distinguished as deutonymphs and adults. Morphometrically the sexes can be recognized in all of the life stages, unprecedented for the family Eukoeniidae.
3705089|Females of four species of wolf spiders were examined for the presence of an airborne pheromone(s): Schizocosa saltatrix, S. ocreata, Lycosa rabida, L. punctulata. Two types of olfactometers were employed: an open arena-type olfactometer and a Y-olfactometer. Data indicate that male S. saltatrix exhibit an orthokinetic response to distant conspecific females. Male S. ocreata may exhibit a taxis response to distant females. Neither Lycosa species exhibits a change in behavior in response to a hidden female.
3705621| Pachyloides hades, a new species of Gonyleptidae from the province of Tucumn, Argentina, is described and illustrated. It differs from its nearest relative, Pachyloides tucumanus Canals, mainly in the armature of the ocular tubercle and trochanter IV of the males. Differences from Pachyloides thorellii Holmberg and Daguerreia maculata Canals are also noted. P. hades was collected at two localities over 2,000 m above sea level. /// Se describe e ilustra Pachyloides hades, nueva especie de Gonyleptidae de la provincia de Tucumn, Argentina. Se comentan las diferencias con su especie ms prxima, Pachyloides tucumanus Canals (principalmente referidas a la armadura del oculario y el trocnter IV del macho), as como con Pachyloides thorellii Holmberg y Daguerreia maculata Canals. Pachyloides hades fue colectada en dos localidades situadas por encima de 2,000 m s.n.m. 
3705158|The three described species of Tengella Dahl 1901, family Tengellidae(?), are reviewed. Tengella perfuga Dahl 1901 is known only from the original description. The male of T. albolineata (Pickard-Cambridge, 1902) is redescribed. The male of T. radiata (Kulczynski, 1909) is described, with a redescription of the female.
3705856|From diurnal and nocturnal observations of the araneid spider, Nephila clavipes (Linnaeus), in two locations in Texas, old pasture and scrub forest habitat, rates of prey capture, types of prey utilized and time budgets can be estimated. This species had no preferred prey types. It was never observed in a retreat but was always at the hub except when replacing silk or molting. Spiders at both locations had similar time budgets and schedules but differed significantly in the types of prey captured and the estimated contribution of each prey type to the spider diet. Despite these differences, the number of prey and the estimated dry weight of prey captured by each spider was not different between the two locations. Compared to other araneids, N. clavipes in Texas captured a relatively low number of prey per hour, the prey were small relative to spider size, and web investment appeared high. N. clavipes may be required to hunt as much as it does because it is large relative to the insects upon which it preys.
3705607|Locomotion of Dolomedes plantarius Clerck was examined using video analysis. The experiments demonstrate a hitherto unknown aquatic mode of locomotion of Dolomedes during prey capture. In a spider running on the water surface the powerful retraction of legs 1, 2 alternates with free flight above the water surface. The stepping cycle in this kind of galloping is five times quicker than in case of ordinary rowing. The experiments also show that the spider may use its elastic safety thread to actively stop its inertial movements after having stopped active locomotion on the water surface. To this end it grasps the thread by the tarsal claw of legs 4. Some ecological aspects of locomotory behavior in Dolomedes and the evolutionary origin of aquatic rowing and running are discussed.
3706267|To determine the reflectance of spider webs and spiders under ultraviolet (UV) light, spiders and their webs were photographed under normal (white) light and under UV light. It was found that all silk in araneoid webs reflect slightly more UV light than white light; i.e., they had a positive UV-brightness. However, the often cited, particularly high UV-brightness of stabilimenta could not be confirmed. Spiders differed in their UV-brightness, with most spiders reflecting less UV light than white light. Based on the knowledge of the visual system of insects and invertebrates it is suggested that the main function of stabilimenta is predator defense. However, drawing a final conclusion requires more knowledge on the way potential predators and prey perceive spiders, spider webs and stabilimenta.
3706184|The copulatory organs of the cryptic species Lycosa thorelli and Lycosa carbonelli are studied and are shown to exhibit some differences. The morphology of the epigynum, vulva and palpal organs of L. carbonelli are here described for the first time. Additional morphological data of these species are provided and the specific diagnosis reformulated. Measurements indicated that the copulatory organs of L. carbonelli are larger than L. thorelli. Morphological comparison between the parental species and the hybrid progeny show that hybrids are intermediate in morphology and size. The reproductive isolation in these cryptic species and the inheritance of the sexual characters in the hybrid progeny are discussed.
3705661|Diplocentrus perezi, a new species of diplocentrid scorpion, is described from the Mexican state of Veracruz, representing the first report of the genus from that area. A female specimen from Tabasco is possibly referable to this species. The new species is most similar to D. mexicanus Peters, but differs from that species in carapacial granulation, tarsomere II spine formula, and carination of the pedipalps and metasoma.
3706068|The monotypic Brazilian genus Sickius Soares & Camargo 1948 is revalidated, rediagnosed, and tentatively transferred to the Ischnocolinae. The formerly unknown female of S. longibulbi Soares & Camargo 1948 is found to lack spermathecae. This unusual genital feature, not found in any other mygalomorph spider species, is described and discussed.
3705066|The phylogenetic relationships of some chactoid genera are analyzed. The number of lateral eyes, the only character used to separate the families Chactidae and Vaejovidae, is rejected because of considerable intrageneric, intergeneric, and interfamilial variability. The value of trichobothrial numbers and patterns in scorpion systematics is discussed, and the terminologies proposed by both Stahnke and Vachon are considered to be of limited value in phylogeny reconstruction because they postulate incongruent homologies. The following sister-group relationships and monophyletic taxa are hypothesized: Caraboctonus + Hadruroides = Caraboctonini, new; Hadrurus = Hadrurini, new; Caraboctonini + Hadrurini = Caraboctoninae; Calchas + Iurus = Iurinae; Caraboctoninae + Iurinae = Iuridae, new rank. A key to scorpion families, and a key to subordinate taxa of Iuridae are presented. The suprageneric taxa of iurids are diagnosed and compared. A vicariance model is presented to explain the present geographical distribution of the family.
4129822|This study investigated the range and number of prey consumed by a population of M. menardi in an abandoned mine drainage adit at Mary Tavy, on the edge of Dartmoor (Devon, UK). The adit was visited each week from October 1997 to November 1998 and any spider found feeding was interrupted and its prey removed and preserved in alcohol. Over the 13 months a total of 69 prey were recovered representing 18 taxa. While a number of flying insects used the adit as a refuge in which to over winter they formed a small percentage of the total prey consumed. Most of the prey were members of the soil or litter fauna (myriapods and slugs) that were observed walking over the surface of the adit walls.
41317213|For over 100 years, Eugne Simon's system of pholcid classification has been used with only minor modifications. Phylogenetic research over the last decade has shown that some fundamental changes are necessary if the formal system is to reflect putative evolutionary relationships. Based on cladistic analyses of morphological and molecular data and on qualitative character assessment, the family is here divided into five subfamilies: Ninetinae, Arteminae, Modisiminae, Smeringopinae, and Pholcinae. All currently valid genera are placed in a cladogram. Even though the evidence supporting some of the nodes and assignments is weak, the cladogram generates numerous testable hypotheses and provides an improved framework for the mapping of ' new' characters like those from sperm ultrastructure and chromosome analysis.
3705440|This study investigated the life cycle and behavior of Argyrodes ululans which is a specialist kleptoparasite in the communal webs of its social spider host, Anelosimus eximius. Observations of natural and enclosed colonies of An. eximius revealed that large An. eximius colonies maintain steady populations of high numbers of differently aged Ar. ululans individuals whereas small colonies contain fewer kleptoparasites less predictably. Adult female Ar. ululans forage almost exclusively by stealing newly captured prey directly from their hosts and were never observed to prey on host spiders. Although male and juvenile Ar. ululans will sometimes steal prey from An. eximius, they tend to scavenge more and feed on prey scraps abandoned by their hosts.
40233848|Fourteen specimens of the jumping spider Gambaquezonia itimana Barrion & Litsinger 1995 were collected in the vicinity of Mt. Makiling and Los Banos, Luzon Island, Philippines. The species was described only from the holotype female. Males are described for the first time, and additional females are documented.
3706103|After producing a cylindrical egg sac, a female Miagrammopes animotus holds it until spiderlings emerge and disperse. When sacs were taken from females, these females exhibited a putative searching behavior and, upon contacting either their sacs or those of conspecifics, exhibited a putative recognition behavior. These responses would cause a female to search for and reclaim her sac if it were temporarily abandoned during feeding or web construction. Females with sacs did not respond positively to sacs from which spiderlings had emerged. Females that did not have sacs did not respond positively to viable sacs. Females separated from their sacs for increasing time periods exhibited a decline in positive responses to their sacs. Thus, contact with the sac appears necessary to maintain an affinity for the sac during the development of spiderlings.
24365302|Phidippus audax (Hentz 1845), a common North American jumping spider, is a visual predator that uses its highly developed eyesight to detect and forage actively for prey. We demonstrate that P. audax can survive throughout its life cycle as a scavenger. We separated 600 spiderlings into eight treatments examining all combinations of three different variables: live versus dead prey, substrate present versus substrate absent, and large versus small arenas. Over the course of the study, we recorded survival rates, instar durations, and carapace widths. Our results indicate that P. audax can survive solely on a diet of dead prey, but at significantly lower survival rates and with longer instar durations than spiders fed on live prey. Scavenging spiders, however, exhibited no significant difference in carapace widths when compared to predators. Choice tests conducted on adults indicate that spiders raised as either predators or scavengers exhibit no significant differences in prey choice when given the option of live or dead prey.
4129794| When forced by prodding to run continuously, Centruroides hentzi (Banks 1901) (Scorpiones, Buthidae) lost over 70% of initial speed within 30 s and moved fitfully, if at all, after 90 s. A lack of behavioral response to alternative stimuli presented after two mins of prodding suggested that the scorpions were physiologically fatigued. Mean whole body D-(-)-lactate concentration increased from resting values of 0.6 mol/g to 4 mol/g at exhaustion, an approximately 6.5-fold change. It is unlikely that scorpions accumulate significant amounts of other anaerobic products. Whole body lactate accumulations in C. hentzi are lower than those found in species of spiders, crabs and terrestrial ectothermic vertebrates that are more specialized for running. This difference may be the result of proportionately more non-locomotory body mass in the bodies of scorpions compared to these other animals and not due to lower rates of anaerobic metabolism within locomotory muscles. 
3705145|A study of all the specimens of "Dipoena alta Keyserling" in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University and the American Museum of Natural History, New York, reveals that D. alta probably comprises several species. Dipoena lineatipes Bryant is reestablished as a valid species, and a new species, Dipoena jamesi, is described. The numerous variations occuring in the three species are illustrated. Detailed cross-reference between the distribution records and the illustrated variations is given. This should facilitate future work on the further division of "D. alta" into separate species when additional material becomes available.
23048796|About 1% of the nests of a crab spider (Misumena vatia [Clerck 1757]) population in coastal Maine, USA, contained apparently cannibalistic individuals. These spiderlings remained in their nests over three times longer than average and attained average masses twice that of non-cannibalistic spiderlings (maximum = four-fold) before dispersing. Parents of the 14 cannibalistic broods came from 10 sites separated from each other by 0.510 km and over 23 years; thus, this behavior appears to be widespread and relatively stable, though uncommon.
24717333|Field and laboratory observations of the feeding ecology (natural diet, prey capture success, and prey handling) of Oecobius maculatus Simon 1870 were combined in this study to reveal the level of trophic specialization by this species. Natural prey were investigated on the Croatian island of Brac. Field observations revealed that although spiders captured prey belonging to five invertebrate orders, the most frequently captured prey were ants, which were also the most abundant available prey in the locality. In laboratory experiments, O. maculatus spiders accepted three other prey types with a higher probability than ants and were significantly more efficient at capturing and handling flies than ants. These results suggest that this species is a stenophagous generalist with a narrow prey range due to ecological circumstances.
20788612|Historically Buthus occitanus (Amoreux 1789) was recognized as the sole species of the genus present in the Iberian Peninsula, but recent morphological studies have identified and named two additional species. In addition, molecular data on the Moroccan fauna has shed light on the diversity within the genus. More species have since been described from North Africa, where diversity within the genus is highest. In this study we assessed the genetic diversity within specimens of Buthus Leach 1815 from across the Iberian Peninsula using cytochrome oxidase 1 (CO1) mitochondrial DNA sequences. The known range of B. ibericus Loureno & Vachon 2004 was greatly expanded, with the species widespread in most of the western part of the Iberian Peninsula. Five distinct mtDNA lineages were found within Buthus from the Iberian Peninsula, two of which were reported for the first time in this study. However, both B. ibericus and B. occitanus included highly divergent lineages and thus further studies are needed to fully comprehend the taxonomy of Buthus from this region.
3705203|A taxonomic revision of the genus Nebo Simon, based largely on adult morphometric characters is presented. Nebo hierichonticus (Simon) and Nebo flavipes Simon are recognized as valid species: Nebo hierichonticus pallidimanus Pocock is a junior synonym of N. flavipes; Nebo grandis, n. sp., Nebo henjamicus, n. sp., Nebo omanensis, n. sp. and Nebo yemenensis, n. sp. are described.
41758982|Spitting spiders (Scytodidae) have a distinct predatory strategy in which they eject a sticky secretion from their cheliceral fangs to immobilize prey. This behavior could potentially allow the spider not only to avoid defensive secretions but also to bite specific vulnerable spots of a potential prey such as a harvestman. We used an ethogram, a fluxogram and an experiment to analyze the interaction between the harvestman Discocyrtus invalidus Piza 1938 (Arachnida: Opiliones) and the syntopic spider Scytodes globula (Nicolet 1849) (Arachnida: Araneae). These spiders, while readily taking crickets as prey, seldom spat at and never bit the harvestmen, which apparently did not exude repugnatorial secretions. We therefore tested, by clogging the glands and using appropriate controls, whether non-visible amounts of secretions could cause the rejection, but the harvestmen were still refused. This is the first detailed and quantified description of an interaction between a spitting spider and a harvestman. The general conclusions are that S. globula avoids preying on D. invalidus, S. globula behaves differently when attacking harvestmen and crickets and the scent gland secretions of D. invalidus do not play a direct role in this predator-prey interaction.
3705135|The rare North American salticid genus Poultonella is reviewed and diagnosed. Poultonella is removed from Fissidentati and placed in Unidentati, subfamily Dendryphantinae. The female of P. alboimmaculata is redescribed and the male of the species is described for the first time. The natural history of P. alboimmaculata, in north-central Texas, is discussed. P. nuesensis, new species, is described from Mustang Island on the Texas coast.
4129863|New data concerning developmental anomalies observed among species of the family Bothriuridae (Scorpiones) are presented. Tergal malformations in Bothriurus coriaceus, Brachistosternus roigalsinai and Bothriurus noa are described and illustrated. Two new cases of intersexuality in scorpions, in specimens of Brachistosternus pentheri and Bothriurus araguayae, are reported and discussed.
3705799|The mating behavior of the nursery web spider Pisaurina mira is described for the first time. These spiders mate while suspended from draglines as in Oxyopes heterophthalmus (Latr.) and Peucetia viridans (Hentz). The unique feature of the mating in P. mira, however, is the male's use of a veil of silk to wrap the female's legs I and II into a flexed position prior to copulation while her legs III and IV are held in a flexed position by the male's embrace. Mating is accomplished in a version of position II with body axes in a right angle as the female is cradled by the male's legs. The use of silk to "tie" the female is reported elsewhere only in Xysticus.
25067860|The type specimens of ten of Nicolet's species of jumping spider from Chile were examined. In this paper we present seven new synonymies and two new combinations for these nominal species as well as a redescription and illustrations where necessary. Attus iricolor Nicolet 1849, Attus scalaris Nicolet 1849, Attus superbus Nicolet 1849 and Attus zonarius Nicolet 1849 are synonymized with Dendryphantes mordax (C.L. Koch 1846); Euophrys quilpuensis Simon 1901, Attus vanus Nicolet 1849 and Attus vestitus Nicolet 1849 are synonymized with Euophrys rusticana (Nicolet 1849) comb. nov.; Attus legibilis Nicolet 1849 is tentatively transfered to Dendryphantes C.L. Koch 1837.
3705484|Two new species of the genus Lyssomanes Hentz from the Cape Region, Baja California Sur, are described and illustrated. Lyssomanes burrera n. sp. is similar to Lyssomanes jemineus Peckham, Peckham & Wheeler, and Lyssomanes pescadero n. sp. is similar to Lyssomanes mandibulatus F. O. P. Cambridge.
3705117|Wandering spiders from three communities representing points on a successional gradient (old field, oak and beech-mapie forests) were sampled with pitfall traps and compared at the levels of species, family and guild. There was little similarity (species overlap) between communities. Species diversity was highest in the sub-climax forest and considerably lower in the mature beech-maple forest. This successional trend in species diversity is discussed in light of current hypotheses. Analysis of guild composition showed that, with succession, the relative abundance of wolf spiders decreased while that of vagrant web builders and crab spiders increased. Of the seven families sampled, only members of the Clubionidae occurred in fairly sizeable proportions in each community. Structure of the litter is discussed as a factor influencing cursorial spider abundance and distribution.
41317215|A long-term diet analysis of a polyphagous jumping spider Yllenus arenarius Menge 1868 (13 yr, n = 321 prey items) was carried out in Central Poland. Due to the spider's long life cycle two cohorts are present for the whole season and for one month three cohorts coexist, which allowed me to investigate whether coexisting spiders feed on similar or different prey. Diets of spiders from these three cohorts were found to differ in three aspects: prey taxa, prey diversity and prey size. Spiders from each cohort maintained a fairly constant ratio between prey size and their own size throughout the life cycle, which resulted in dietary separation between individuals from coexisting cohorts. Such mechanisms may reduce the intensity of competitive interactions between coexisting spiders.
20798590|Four new species belonging to the mexicanus group of the genus Vaejovis C.L. Koch 1836 from Oaxaca, Mexico are described. The number of species of this group for the state is raised to seven. The males of V. franckei and V. setosus are described for the first time. A key to Oaxacan species of the mexicanus group is provided.
3705552| The barychelid spider genus Sason is revised and includes six valid species: the type species, S. robustum (O. P.-Cambridge 1883), S. andamanicum (Simon 1888), S. colemani sp. nov., S. maculatum (Roewer 1963), S. pectinatum Kulczyski 1908, and S. seychellanum Simon 1898. Sason cinctipes (Pocock 1892) and S. armatoris Pocock 1900 are newly synonymized with S. robustum (O. P.-Cambridge 1883), and Chrysopelma Roewer 1963 with Sason. Rhianus (= Rhianodes) and Monodontium are transferred to the Barychelinae. Sason occurs in the Seychelles, India, Ceylon, the Andaman Islands, New Guinea, to the islands of the Northwestern Pacific, and in northern Australia. Its distribution is similar to that of other Indo-Pacific taxa; a vicariance hypothesis is proposed for its historical biogeography. 
3705708|The population structure of three large species of the genus Cupiennius was evaluated. Although solitary, 45% of C. coccineus, 40% of C. salei and 30% of C. getazi spiders were found on plants together with one or more conspecifics. The adult sex ratio (males: females) was 1:1.2 for C. salei (1989, n = 52), 1:1.3 for C. coccineus (1990, n = 75) and 1:1.6 for C. getazi (1990, n = 29). The ratio of adults: immatures was 1:0.5 for C. salei, 1:1.8 for C. coccineus and 1:13 for C. getazi. The two sympatric species, C. coccineus and C. getazi, sometimes occur on the same plants and are therefore considered syntopic. In all three species spider density is correlated with the number of the retreats offered by their dwelling plants. We found up to 0.2 adults/plant for C. salei and 0.3 adults per plant for C. coccineus and C. getazi. Cupiennius spiders, particularly the males, change their dwelling plants quite often. On average, C. salei males could only be found for 0.5 day on the same plant without interruption (five days observation time), C. coccineus males for one day (21 days observation time) whereas females with eggsacs of these two species stay significantly longer (3.5 days and 8 days, respectively; 21 days observation time). Considering the rather high population density and the frequent changes of the dwelling plants (the males in particular), interactions between spiders seem very likely. In the lab, male competition in addition to courtship between the sexes is elicited by male vibratory courtship signals. Overt fights between males were observed in the field.
24365304|The burrow structure and microhabitat variables of the little known theraphosid Nesiergus insulanus Simon 1903 were determined on Frgate Island, Seychelles. The species constructed burrows in fossorial substrates, including rocks, leaf litter and bare soil as well as on the trunks of decaying trees, both recumbent and standing. The majority of burrows were predominantly found in sandy loam soil with partial protection from the sun. The density of burrows was determined to be weakly positively correlated to soil and substrate type and strongly negatively correlated to degree of exposure to the sun. The pH of the soil in which burrows are found was not significantly related to burrow sites, and variability in burrow structure was revealed. Burrow aggregations vary from single burrows to aggregations exceeding 100, distributed randomly.
23610248|Spiniform macrosetae have been useful as a taxonomic trait in the genus Diplocentrus, such as the telotarsal spiniform macrosetae formula widely used to separate species. Basitarsal spiniform macrosetae have been studied in the family Scorpionidae but not in its sister family (Diplocentridae). In this study, we analyzed the variation in the position and number of spiniform macrosetae on the basitarsus of one species of the genus Diplocentrus. We found minimal ontogenetic, intersexual and geographical variation within the species. We also compare the pattern found in Diplocentrus tehuacanus Hoffmann 1931 to those of two morphologically similar species, and found that the basitarsal macrosetal pattern is also a good, reliable taxonomic character at the interspecific level.
41317230|New records of parasitic Parasitengona larvae on harvestmen hosts from the Palaearctic region are provided.Four species of harvestmen have been found to be new hosts of Parasitengona and four species of mites have been recorded as new parasites of Opiliones. The first case of parasitism of Hydrachnidia on harvestmen has been found.
3705981|Second-instar crab spiderlings Misumena vatia (ca. 0.6 mg) that had never previously fed made killing attacks on pomace flies Drosophila melanogaster (ca. 1.0 mg) in direct proportion to the surface areas of the flies' body parts: abdomen, 50%; thorax, 29%; head, 20%. They retained this pattern over their next six encounters with these flies. They also attacked the different surfaces of these body parts (front, side, above, below, behind) with a frequency predicted by the respective areas of these surfaces. All of the spiderlings tested more than once successfully attacked prey on more than one body part. Fifth and sixth-instar Misumena (ca. 7-15 mg) attacked small (4 mg) syrphid flies Toxomerus marginatus more frequently on the head than the second instars attacked Drosophila heads. This difference may result from subsequent experience, greater activity of the syrphid flies than the Drosophila, or maturation of the spiders.
3706265|A data-set from the mitochondrial 12S rRNA gene subunit of 11 Australasian lycosid species (six New Zealand species and five Australian species) was generated. Three North American lycosid species, one European species and one New Zealand pisaurid (outgroup) were also sequenced. The sequence data for the 16 species were combined with the published sequences of 12 European lycosids, two Asian lycosids and one Asian pisaurid and were analyzed using parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses. The resulting phylogenetic trees reveal that Australasian species largely form clades distinct from Palearctic and Holarctic species providing further evidence against the placement of Australasian species in Northern Hemisphere genera. New Zealand wolf spiders appear to be related to a subset of Australian genera whereas the other Australian lycosid genera are related to Asian/Holarctic faunas. Gene sequences in the 12S region were useful when examining relationships between closely related genera, but were not as informative for deeper generic relationships.
20788618|Although bromeliads can be important in the organization of invertebrate communities in Neotropical forests, few studies support this assumption. Bromeliads possess a three-dimensional architecture and rosette grouped leaves that provide associated animals with a good place for foraging, reproduction and egg laying, as well as shelter against desiccation and natural enemies. We collected spiders from an area of the Atlantic Rainforest, southeastern Brazil, through manual inspection in bromeliads, beating trays in herbaceous+shrubby vegetation and pitfall traps in the soil, to test if: 1) species subsets that make up the Neotropical forest spider community are compartmentalized into different habitat types (i.e., bromeliads, vegetation and ground), and 2) bromeliads are important elements that structure spider communities because they generate different patterns of abundance distributions and species composition, and thus amplify spider beta diversity. Subsets of spider species were compartmentalized into three habitat types. The presence of bromeliads represented 41% of the increase in total spider richness, and contributed most to explaining the high beta diversity values among habitats. Patterns of abundance distribution of the spider community differed among habitats. These results indicate that bromeliads are key elements in structuring the spider community and highlight the importance of Bromeliaceae as biodiversity amplifiers in Neotropical ecosystems.
3706382|Misionella didicostae new species is described from 15-20 Ma Miocene amber from the Dominican Republic as the first fossil record of the family Filistatidae. The biogeography of the extant (Brazil and Argentina) and the new fossil species supports the hypothesis that the developing northern Greater Antilles and northwestern South America were briefly (33-35 Ma) connected by a landspan centered on the emergent Aves Ridge. Undiscovered extant species of Misionella may exist on Hispaniola. The autospasized first pair of legs suggest that the spider was engulfed in a flowing resin seep of relatively low viscosity, rather than having wandered onto a sticky exudate, becoming stuck and then covered by a subsequent resin flow.
25067888|Fourteen adult specimens of Berlandina nubivaga (Simon 1878) (two females and twelve males) were collected in Aosta Valley (NW Italy) by pitfall traps mostly placed in alpine pastures at about 2000 m elevation. The male is described and the palpal morphology is illustrated; a new drawing of the female internal genitalia is also given. The critical analysis of previous records suggests the distribution of B. nubivaga may be restricted to the Alps. /// Quattordici esemplari (due femmine e dodici maschi) di Berlandina nubivaga (Simon 1878) sono stati raccolti in Val d'Aosta (Italia nord-occidentale) con l'impiego di trappole a caduta collocate per lo pi in pascoli intorno ai duemila metri di quota. Il maschio di questa specie risulta nuovo per la scienza: in questa sede viene quindi descritto illustrandone i caratteri sistematici salienti. Viene inoltre fornita una nuova illustrazione della vulva della femmina. L'analisi critica delle segnalazioni di B. nubivaga sembra suggerire che la distribuzione di questa specie sia ristretta alle Alpi.
25067817|Spiders have been advocated as valuable bio-indicators of forest ecosystem "health." However, the numbers and types of spiders that are recorded at a site will usually be highly dependent on the sampling method employed. The use of lethal, indiscriminate invertebrate sampling techniques is undesirable when investigating rare species, or sampling within areas of high conservation status. Therefore we used non-lethal artificial tree-mounted shelters to monitor arboreal spiders in nature reserves near Christchurch, New Zealand. After three months, over 60% of the shelters had been used by spiders, increasing to 91% after twelve months. There were significant differences in the numbers of spiders found in the shelters at the different sites. However, factors such as the species of tree the shelter was attached to, ground vegetation, and levels of incident light did not affect the likelihood of a shelter being occupied. The species composition of the spider faunas in those sites regarded as high quality forest remnants was dissimilar to the faunas found in the low quality reserves. However, although spiders were more abundant in the high quality sites compared with the poorest stands of woodland, they were not more species rich. The shelters are inexpensive and easy to manufacture and are useful for long-term non-lethal monitoring of spider communities. They also have good potential as a tool for studying spider phenology, population dynamics, behavior, and as a collection/carriage device for live specimens used in conservation translocations.
25434287|Among the 64 genera of Triaenonychinae Srensen 1886 (Opiliones, Insidiatores), two are found in more than one continent: Ceratomontia Roewer 1915 and Nuncia Loman 1902, both occurring in South America, the former occurring also in South Africa, the latter in New Zealand. Until now there were 22 valid species of Ceratomontia, diagnosed mainly by the tarsal formula. In the present paper, a cladistic analysis was performed to test the monophyly of Ceratomontia and study its relationship with the South African triaenonychine genera Austromontia Lawrence 1931 and Monomontia Lawrence 1931. A total of 42 morphological characters were coded for 18 terminal taxa, 14 representing the genera Ceratomontia (from South America and South Africa), Austromontia and Monomontia as ingroup, and two species of Triaenonychinae from South America, one from South Africa and one Adaeinae Pocock 1902 from South Africa as outgroups. The analysis using heuristic search algorithms resulted in 12 most parsimonious trees (L = 95, CI = 0.52, RI = 0.66). The consensus hypothesis did not recover a monophyletic Ceratomontia, instead, the South African species constitute a clade with the Austromontia and Monomontia species. The Ceratomontia species from South America form a clade that is sister-group of the clade formed by the South African genera of the ingroup. The result shows that Ceratomontia is involved in a "Gondwanan relationship," but also includes other genera, suggesting that it is not a monophyletic group.
4129816|Sunflowers are an increasingly important crop plant in the Czech Republic. The spider fauna of this crop has not been investigated yet. The aim of this study was to monitor the spider fauna of sunflowers and to study the seasonal change in the spatial and vertical distribution of this fauna. For this purpose a small experimental area was used where spiders on each single leave of 50 sunflower plants were visually checked at monthly intervals from spring until autumn. The density of spiders increased during the season reaching a maximum of seven spiders/plant in the autumn shortly before harvest. The spatial distribution changed accordingly, being random in spring and early summer and normal or aggregated toward late summer. Two spider species, Neottiura bimaculata and Theridion impressum (Theridiidae), dominated (96% of all individuals) throughout the season. These two species exhibited a different microhabitat preference: N. bimaculata individuals were found particularly on the lower sunflower leaves, T. impressum preferred higher leaves. The density of the spiders (per leaf) was independent of the density of two dominant pest species, aphids and leafhoppers.
3705303|Paruroctonus Werner consists of two sympatric subgenera, the nominate and Smeringurus, new subgenus. Smeringurus is defined by the presence of numerous short setae on the ventral intercarinal surfaces of metasomal segments I-IV, and by having a significantly more slender metasoma. Smeringurus consists of four species endemic to the southwestern deserts of North America: P vachoni Stahnke (type species), P. mesaensis Stahnke, P. grandis (Williams), and P. aridus Soleglad. Two subspecies of P. vachoni are defined by the numbers of primary denticles on the grasping edge of the pedipalp fingers: P. v. vachoni, from the northern Mojave Desert region, and P. v. immanis Soleglad, new combination, from the central and southern Mojave Desert and the Colorado Desert. Paruroctonus vachoni, P, grandis and P. aridus are allopatric, occupying rocky substrates; each occurs sympatrically with P. mesaensis, a psammophilous species.
3705236|The aerial dispersal of spiders at two locations in eastern Texas was studied using a Johnson-Taylor suction trap. A total of 17,596 spiders were collected at College Station, Texas during a one year period, and 6248 spiders at the Ellis Unit from April to August. Nineteen families were found including Uloboridae and Hahniidae. The greatest numbers of spiders were collected during May and June at College Station with immatures representing 94% of total spiders collected during the year. The families Erigonidae, Araneidae, and Oxyopidae comprised ca. 74% of all spiders collected at College Station. The size class 1-2 mm represented 64% of all spiders collected at College Station with those < 1 mm in length next in abundance with 28%.
3705944|We investigated predatory interactions among three species of web-building spiders which co-occur on sandstone outcrops along the Cumberland Plateau in east Tennessee: Hypochilus thorelli (Hypochilidae), Achaearanea tepidariorum (Theridiidae) and Coras montanus (Amaurobiidae). Previous studies have shown that these spiders are essentially ecological equivalents with respect to activity, website characteristics and prey capture and that each species preys on the others. This type of predatory interaction between potential competitors is referred to as intraguild predation. We performed removal experiments to determine the significance of intraguild predation for each of the species as predators and as prey. Three types of treatment plots were established: from each plot two of the three study species were removed (weekly, July-October 1993) and the third remained. Control plots were established from which no spiders were removed. We predicted that if the treatments resulted in removal of an important source of prey then: 1) the number of individuals of the remaining species should decline over time as a result of web-relocation, and 2) body condition of spiders remaining should be lower in the treatments than in the controls. If treatments had the effect of removing predation then the number of individuals remaining in treatment plots should increase relative to the controls where intraguild predation could occur. There were no significant differences in the number of spiders of the remaining species on treatment versus control plots, indicating that the treatment did not result in spider relocation as a response to potential food removal. However, at the end of the experiment body condition of H. thorelli was significantly lower on plots from which the other two species were removed than on control plots. This suggests that removal of the other two species may have resulted in removal of a significant source of prey for H. thorelli. In addition, we present evidence that treatments may have removed a source of predation on dispersing A. tepidariorum spiderlings.
3706319|The genus Uliodon L. Koch is reviewed. It now includes only the type species, Uliodon albopunctatus L. Koch 1873, Uliodon cervinus L. Koch 1873, and Zora frenatus Koch 1873, and the genus is transferred to the Zoropsidae. Uliodon is known only from New Zealand. Through an original misreading of the type specimen locality data, both species were erroneously reported from Australia. Forster and Homann previously referred to Uliodon species as Miturga, which is endemic to Australia. The subfamily Uliodoninae Lehtinen 1967 was founded on the characters of Zora tarantulina L. Koch 1873, later transferred to Uliodon by Simon. The diagnostic character of the subfamily, the very long path of the embolus, is not found in Uliodon. The subfamily is here diagnosed from the genus; its validity is unclear. In any case, both Uliodon and Uliodoninae are transferred to the Zoropsidae along with the Australian Huntia Gray & Thompson 2001. Zora tarantulina is made the type species of a new monotypic genus, Mituliodon, included in the Miturgidae; the genus is known only from Australia and Timor. Mituliodon tarantulinus (L. Koch 1873) now newly includes in its synonymy, Uliodon australiensis (L. Koch 1873), Uliodon torvus (L. Koch 1873), Miturga maculata Hogg 1900, Syspira rubicunda Hogg 1900 and Miturga velox Hickman 1930. The New Zealand genus Zealoctenus is transferred from the Ctenidae to the Miturgidae because it is very similar to the Australian genus Diaprograpta Simon 1909; the other New Zealand "ctenid" genus, Nemoctenus Forster & Wilton 1973, along with the Australian zorid Horioctenoides Main 1954 are synonymized with the zorid genus Argoctenus L. Koch 1878, found in Australia, New Zealand and New Caledonia. The New Zealand "psechrids" Poaka Forster & Wilton 1973 and Haurokoa Forster & Wilton 1973 are transferred to the Amaurobiidae and Tengellidae, respectively.
20798594|A new Trachyzelotes spider species, Trachyzelotes minutus n. sp. is described. The new species likely belongs to the "barbatus group", based on the rounded embolus base and terminal apophysis, as well as the anterolaterally expanded copulatory ducts. Trachyzelotes minutus may be a sister species of T. fuscipes, given the similarities of the embolus and terminal apophysis.
3705771|The temporal pattern of activity and spatial distribution of six species of nocturnal orb-weaving spiders (Araneae: Araneidae and Tetragnathidae) were examined in coastal hedge vegetation in Israel. In Autumn, small spiders of all species built their webs early in the evening and progressively larger spiders put their webs up through the night. This activity pattern corresponded to the change in sizes of flying insects throughout the night. There was no interspecific segregation in time of activity. Spiders were highly clumped in space, but showed interspecific segregation only in web height. In Autumn, Nuctenea suspicax was the most abundant species, while in Spring Singa lucina predominated. During the latter season, spiders had two periods of activity: evening (at dusk) and morning (pre-dawn). Morning-active spiders had larger webs and larger clutches than evening-active spiders. As in Autumn, there was little interspecific segregation in time of activity or in spatial distribution. Spider removal experiments suggest that the timing of activity does not change following density reduction, but that individuals that were previously inactive may take advantage of the newly available spaces. The number of active spiders increased when sites for web attachments were added, supporting the hypothesis that space availability limits spider activity. The results are discussed in terms of the importance of niche partitioning in time and space.
3705612|The previously monotypic North American spider genus Rabidosa Roewer is characterized and expanded to include five species: Rabidosa rabida, R. santrita, R. punctulata, R. carrana and R. hentzi, all originally described under Lycosa. Descriptions, diagnoses, illustrations, distribution maps, natural history notes (where known), a provisional phylogeny, and an identification key are provided for these five species.
3706311| The first species of the genus Austropsopilio is described from South America. The species, A. sudamericanus, closely resembles those from Australia and Tasmania but lacks the elongate ocular tubercle previously regarded as diagnostic for the genus. Problems in the taxonomy of the genus are discussed. /// Se reporta por primera vez la presencia del Gnero Austropsopilio para Sudamrica. La especie A. sudamericanus, se parece bastante a las de Australia y Tasmania, pero no posee el tubrculo ocular previamente indicado en la diagnosis del gnerica. Se discute la problemtica en la taxonoma del gnero. 
24365307|Orb spiders demonstrate an impressive ability to adapt their web-building behavior to a wide range of environmental and physiological factors. However, the mechanisms behind this plasticity remain poorly understood. Behavioral plasticity can be categorized as either developmental, where new neural pathways arise from learning, or activational, which rely on more costly pre-existing neural pathways. Here I argue that orb spiders and their webs in general and their response to spatial constraints in particular make an ideal model system in which to explore these two mechanisms further. I show that the spider Eustala illicita (O. Pickard-Cambridge 1889) immediately modifies its first orb web after being placed in spatially confined experimental frames without showing subsequent improvements in design of the second web. Thus, these data are in accord with the hypothesis that this spider relies on activational behavioral plasticity, which might be linked to its preferred habitat in the wild.
3705341|Jumping spiders, well known for their visually-mediated reactions, employ a distinctive set of responses when catching prey in daylight. It is shown here, however, that the jumping spider Trite planiceps readily seizes live house flies in the dark, and that such behaviour is probably accomplished by means of vibratory signals.
3705188|A revision of the North American erigonine genus Spirembolus Chamberlin is reported. Tortembolus Crosby and Bactroceps Chamberlin and Ivie are synonymized with Spirembolus. "Erigone" chilkatensis Chamberlin and Ivie has been transferred to Spirembolus, while Spirembolus chera Chamberlin and Ivie, S. cheronis Chamberlin, S. oreinoides Chamberlin, S. vasingtonus Chamberlin (nomen nudum) and Tortembolus approximatus Chamberlin have been excluded from the genus. Spirembolus orthus Chamberlin is a synonym of S. whitneyanus. The genus Spirembolus is defined in this paper mainly on the basis of certain features in the structure of the male palpal organs; these palpal characters indicate that the genus is probably monophyletic. The female genitalia also show common characters. The revised genus contains 38 species, including the following 20 new taxa: Spirembolus abnormis, S. dispar, S. elevatus, S. erratus, S. falcatus, S. fuscus, S. hibernus, S. humilis, S. latebricola, S. levis, S. mendax, S. mirus, S. montivagus, S. novellus, S. praelongus, S. prominens, S. proximus, S. pusillus, S. tiogensis and S. venustus. The genus is sub-divided provisionally into three species groups, the monticolens, spirotubus and tortuosus groups. The genus appears to be limited to the western half of North America, but biological data are scarce. Descriptions, diagnoses and distribution maps are given for each species.
20788635|The geogarypid pseudoscorpion Geogarypus irrugatus (Simon 1899) is redescribed based upon the syntype series from Sumatra. All subsequent records of this species from Asia are shown to be misidentifications.
25434336|The first description of the courtship behavior and copulation is provided for Tengella radiata (Kulczynski 1909). The male courts the female by rocking his body and vibrating his abdomen. These behaviors seem to induce the female to move out from her retreat onto the sheet and incline her body to facilitate intromission. The female has an active role during the courtship: strumming the tunnel and sheet threads, apparently inducing the male to increase the frequency and intensity of his courtship. Palpal insertion is extremely short. The female terminates the copulation by lunging at the male.
24717269|The Nearctic agelenid spider genus Agelenopsis Giebel 1896 is revised, with redescriptions of the 13 known species including: A. actuosa (Gertsch & Ivie 1936), A. aleenae Chamberlin & Ivie 1935, A. aperta (Gertsch 1934), A. emertoni Chamberlin & Ivie 1935, A. kastoni Chamberlin & Ivie 1941, A. longistyla (Banks 1901), A. naevia (Walckenaer 1841), A. oklahoma (Gertsch 1936), A. oregonensis Chamberlin & Ivie 1935, A. pennsylvanica (C.L. Koch 1843), A. potteri (Blackwall 1846), A. spatula Chamberlin & Ivie 1935, and A. utahana (Chamberlin & Ivie 1933). We also include an identification key to the species and a species distribution map. Our cladistic analysis of Agelenopsis is based upon 31 genitalic and somatic characters using Hololena hola (Chamberlin 1928) as the outgroup taxon and including three species of Barronopsis Chamberlin & Ivie 1941 in the analysis since Barronopsis has been considered a sister taxon to Agelenopsis in previous work. The cladistic analysis found 22 most parsimonious trees unambiguously supporting Agelenopsis monophyly. The majority rule consensus provides support for a clade including (((A. pennsylvanica + A. potteri) + A. actuosa) + A. emertoni); another clade including ((((A. aleenae + A. spatula) + A. aperta) + A. kastoni) + A. naevia); and a third clade including ((A. oregonensis + A. utahana) + A. longystyla). Our analysis supports species groups proposed by researchers using molecular characters.
3706192| The present paper deals with nine genera and 32 species of the family Pisauridae from China, including two new genera, Dianpisaura (type species, Pisaura lizhii Zhang 2000) and Qianlingula (type species, Qianlingula bilamellata new species), and 11 new species, Dolomedes costatus, D. raptoroides, Eurychoera banna, Hygropoda argentata, H. campanulata, H. menglun, H. yunnan, Qianlingula bilamellata, Q. jiafu, Q. turbinata and Thalassius paralbocinctus. The genus Eurychoera Thorell 1897 and the species Perenethis sindica (Simon 1897) are newly recorded from China. The males of the species Dianpisaura lizhii (Zhang 2000) and Dolomedes mizhoanus Kishida 1936 are described for the first time. The study indicates that Thalassius bottrelli Barrion & Litsinger 1995 and T. balingkinitanus Barrion & Litsinger 1995 from the Philippines should be transferred to the genus Hygropoda. The species Dolomedes insurgens Chamberlin 1924 and D. pallitarsis Dnitz & Strand 1906 are shown to be the junior synonyms of D. saganus Bsenberg & Strand 1906, and the species D. strandi Bonnet 1929 is considered to be a junior synonym of D. senilis Simon 1880. Scanning electron microscopy is used to study the spigot morphology of several pisaurids. The SEM results indicate the differences of pisaurid spigots at the generic level, both in shape and numbers. A cladistic analysis of 21 species from China is presented. 
3705319|The harvestman Leiobunum lineatum Edgar is synonymized with Leiobunum cretatum Crosby and Bishop. Leiobunum cretatum is rediagnosed, briefly compared to congeners, and numerous new records from central and eastern U.S.A. are provided. The labra and seminal receptacles are illustrated for the first time and the penis is redrawn.
3706273|We examined the indirect effect of the herbicide glyphosate on field margin spider communities. Glyphosate was applied to two replicated (n = 8 per treatment) randomized field experiments over two years in 1997-1998. Spiders were sampled using a modified garden vac monthly from May-October in the following treatments: 1997 comprised 90g, 180g, & 360g active ingredient (a.i.) glyphosate ha
3706238|A comprehensive study of the biology of Mecicobothrium thorelli Holmberg 1882 was carried out in the laboratory and in the field (Sierra de Animas, Maldonado, Uruguay). The species is found in shady riparian sites under trees. M. thorelli builds sheet-and-funnel webs under stones, logs, roots and in crevices. In the laboratory, developmental data indicated that the spiders have an inactive phase in summer and probably another in winter. Adults emerged in the fall and the males die during late winter. Three egg-clutches of about 30 eggs were observed in the laboratory at the end of winter and the beginning of spring (August-September). Juveniles emerged from one of the clutches 27 days after oviposition. A three-year lifespan was estimated. Males started courtship (body vibrations and palpal drumming) upon contacting the female web. Females showed high tolerance during the entire sexual interaction. An unusual clasping mechanism was observed before and during copulation: the female engaged her cheliceral fangs into grooves on the male chelicerae. Twenty-eight copulations were observed. Mean copulation duration was 24.7 min, while males performed a mean of 10 alternate palpal insertions. The complex insertion pattern is described and analyzed. Half of the copulated males pursued females after uncoupling. These males expelled females from the web and remained there. Mated males aggressively defended the female's web from other males. The reproductive strategy, cheliceral clasping and palpal insertion pattern are discussed in detail. Phylogeny and biogeography of mecicobothriid genera are also considered.
25654004|A new species, Mesobuthus bolensis from the Province of Xinjiang, in the Western region of China, is described. The new species can be defined by a densely granular carapace; carinae, granulation, and metasomal segment V without any dark pigmentation; carinae of carapace and pedipalp patella dispersively granular. Furthermore, restudy of the characters of Mesobuthus songi Loureno, Qi & Zhu 2005, described from the southern region of Pulan, Xizang (Tibet), China led us to accommodate this species in the genus Hottentotta Birula, as a new combination Hottentotta songi (Loureno, Qi & Zhu 2005).
23070803|Ontogenetic changes in web structure occur in many spiders of different families, but the functional adaptation of differences in web structure is unknown for most species. We describe the ontogenetic changes in web structure of Leucauge argyra (Walckenaer 1842) and test the function of these differences in webs of spiderlings. Webs of early instar spiders have tangles above the orb web that vary from relatively dense to a single thread, from which some threads extend downward, connecting the tangle to the hub of the orb web. The number of threads of the tangle decreases as spiders grow, and in webs of late instars, the tangle is absent. Our experimental results indicate that the tangle and connecting threads increase the stability of the web, possibly reducing the probability of spiral threads sticking to each other with web movements.
3705792| Field observations have shown Coelotes atropos to be winter-active and tolerant of a wide environmental gradient. This study suggests that low temperature tolerance is achieved by a combination of behavioral thermoregulation and physiological adaptation. It was found that the two populations studied, one living at 732 m elevation and the other at sea level, were not significantly different in their ability to supercool. However, a highly significant relationship between body weight and ability to supercool was demonstrated such that immature stages are far more tolerant of low temperatures than adults. Juvenile spiders were not only able to tolerate sub-zero temperatures, but also demonstrated an ability to cold acclimate. They were active in the supercooled state and capable of silk production at -5 C. Mechanisms which may account for the loss of supercooling ability are discussed as well as the implications of such a change for habitat utilization and life cycle strategy. 
3705864|During a nine week period, we studied the surface abundance of the scorpion Brotheas amazonicus, using 1200 pitfall traps arranged along eight line transects within each of three habitat types in a neotropical rainforest. We collected 193 scorpions of this species. Capture rates in the primary plateau forest and in the primary forest on white sand soil were higher than in disturbed areas. Structural habitat parameters in the vicinity of the trap lines (such as quantity of soil surface litter, number of stemless palms, dead wood and termite mounds on the ground) significantly differed among habitats. Disturbed areas showed lower structural diversity. In a regression analysis the measured habitat parameters proved to affect the abundance of B. amazonicus. We conclude that high structural diversity, ultimately reflecting the availability of hiding places, is important for this scorpion species. This is probably influenced by the predation pressure exerted by the highly diverse predator community in central Amazon terra firme forests.
25434298|Intensively cultivated arable land and semi-desert are two dominant habitat types in the arid agroecosystem in the northwest Negev Desert (Israel). The present study compares activity-densities and species richness of spiders in these distinctive habitat types. Sixteen wheat fields and twelve locations in the semi-desert were sampled during the winter growing season of wheat. Semi-desert habitats had more spider species and higher spider activity-densities than irrigated wheat fields. The majority of spider families, namely Gnaphosidae, Thomisidae, Salticidae, Zodariidae, Philodromidae, Dysderidae, and Clubionidae had significantly higher activity-densities in the semi-desert compared to wheat. Only two families, the Linyphiidae that strongly dominated the arable spider community and Corinnidae had higher activity-densities in wheat than in semi-desert. Out of a total of 94 spider species, fourteen had significantly higher activity-densities in semi-desert than in wheat fields and eight species had significantly higher activity-densities in wheat fields than in semi-desert. Spider families and species that dominated the semi-desert communities also occurred in the wheat fields but at lower activity-densities. In conclusion, the semi-desert is a potential source of spider species and families that may immigrate into arable fields during winter. In particular, active hunting spiders may be sustained in crops through immigration from nearby semi-desert habitats.
3706085|Wolf spiders in the genus Pirata are common, often locally abundant, inhabitants of many moist or mesic habitats. However, relatively little is known about the ecology or life history of these spiders. Here we present data collected during 2000-2001 on female size, offspring size and clutch size for two populations (Ball Gulf, Hardscrabble Creek) of Pirata sedentarius from western New York. In both populations, mean offspring size was less variable than was female size, clutch size or total clutch mass. At Ball Gulf, 67% of females produced two egg sacs and 48% produced three sacs. Clutch size declined across the egg sac sequence for all females. Female size, measured as cephalothorax length, was uncorrelated with mean offspring size in all cases. However, larger females produced larger and heavier clutches during 2001 for both populations; female size was uncorrelated with these variables during 2000 at Hardscrabble Creek. Larger clutches from both populations contained more offspring, and larger clutches contained smaller offspring at Hardscrabble Creek in 2001. We found a significant offspring size-number trade-off at Ball Gulf, while at Hardscrabble Creek this trade-off was marginally significant in 2001 and non-significant in 2000.
3705611|The sole representative of Xenochernes Feio, X. caxinguba Feio from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is redescribed from a small portion of the type series, and compared with the myrmecophilous genera Myrmochernes Tullgren (South Africa) and Marachernes Harvey (southern Australia). A strong relationship based upon three synapomorphies was found to exist between Myrmochernes and Xenochernes, with an apparent weaker relationship with Marachernes. Myrmochernes and Xenochernes are placed in the Myrmochernetini, new status, within the Chernetinae.
3705234|Since its description in 1936 Cicurina bryantae Exline has been rarely collected. The recent discovery of the microhabitat preference of this spider has allowed the observation and collection of substantial numbers of specimens. The following account is compiled from these data. The natural history of the species is discussed (including the interesting tubular retreat constructs inhabited by immatures and adults). Both sexes are described and figured (the male for the first time).
3705646|A new genus, Tuberochernes, is defined, the type species being T. aalbui new species, from a cave in Mono County, California. Another species referable to the genus is described also, T. ubicki new species, from a cave in Santa Cruz County, Arizona. Unique modifications of the palpal chelae and first legs of the males are discussed.
3705711|The male of Rhoicinus gaujoni Simon and the new species Rhoicinus lugato are described. They co-occur in a whitewater-inundation forest in central Amazonia, Brazil, but were not found in a nearby, intensively studied blackwater-inundation forest. Rhoicinus gaujoni builds complex, irregular sheet webs on the ground with a silk tube as a retreat. This report enlarges the distribution of the genus from western South America to the central Amazon basin.
3705232|Females of the species, Nephila clavipes (L.), sometimes build their webs in interconnected clusters. Aggregations in a Peruvian population of this spider were located in areas of high insect activity. This locale enabled individuals in aggregations to capture more prey than solitary individuals. Experiments with prey removal and prey supplementation verified that a high prey capture rate was essential in maintaining such groups. Agonistic interactions frequently preceded departure of a spider from a cluster. These data imply that high prey availability is a prerequisite for the evolution of more complex sociality in Nephila and other similar spider species.
3705395|Orb-weaving spiders that live in groups modify their web structure and activity periods, in contrast to solitary araneids that build more individually distinctive orbs. Individually marked spiders (n = 62) of the colonial Metabus gravidus (Araneidae) in Costa Rica were monitored for 5-day periods during which all webs spun were measured. Variation in web characters (particularly web angle and viscid spiral measures) within an individual is related to time of day and degree of aggregation. Comparisons of six orb-weaving species suggest that spiders joining aggregation vary their web characteristics when in groups.
3705376| A large and dense population of over 500 burrows of Atypoides riversi in a 2.0  3.2 m area was monitored for two years to indirectly determine demographics, growth rates, survivorship and longevity of the spiders. Twelve size classes of spiders were designated by correlating spider size to burrow size. All size classes were present simultaneously throughout the year. Variable growth rates were recorded for spiders in each size class, and survivorship was lowest for spiders in the smallest size classes. It is estimated, based in large part on growth rates, that A. riversi can live at least 16 years in the field. 
25434327|Spider species diversity has been associated with vegetation structure and stratification but there are few studies comparing the spider distribution in different shrubs and trees. In this study we analyzed the species distribution of the spider community of 11 shrub and tree species in two different study sites in a Mexican tropical dry forest. We present results from multivariate analyses that explain their distribution. A classification analysis based on spider abundances separated one shrub, Croton ciliatoglanduliferus, from the rest of the plant species. This was explained by the presence of large numbers of the oxyopid Peucetia viridans (Hentz 1832) on this plant. A second cluster segregated broad-leaved from small-leaved, bipinnate species. This was mainly due to higher spider abundances in the latter type of plants. Four vegetation variables were estimated and their influence on the species distribution was assessed by means of a principal components and regression analysis. With the exception of P. viridans, all spiders were positively associated with number of leaves and number of branchlets per 50 cm branch and negatively with foliage area.
3706298|Populations of four species of Pardosa, P. fuscula, P. groenlandica, P. hyperborea and P. moesta, were sampled during summer 1997 on the west coast of the Island of Newfoundland, Canada. Measurements of carapace width indicated that all four species fit a biennial life-cycle model where new individuals join the population in summer, live through the following winter, grow throughout the next year, live through the next winter, and then mature, breed and die in the year following their second winter. All species showed only one defined recruitment of new spiderlings during the sampling period, but at least two species may have extended periods of recruitment and some individuals may have an extended life-cycle.
3706210|The name Adansonia Saville-Kent was erroneously introduced into spider taxonomy by Bonnet in 1939 and still appears in the literature. Saville-Kent was referring to a tree, not describing a spider.
3705985| This comparision of Brachypelmides and Brachypelma species is based on newly collected spiders and more than 100 specimens from five museum collections. The results show that there are six endemic species of Brachypelma in western Mexico (B. auratum, B. baumgarteni, B. boehmei, B. emilia, B. pallidum, B. smithi), presenting a gap in their distribution only where Brachypelmides klaasi is found. Brachypelma vagans is distributed along both coasts of Mexico and Brachypelmides ruhnaui is found in the central part of Mexico. Notes on natural history, a morphological comparison of 27 characters of these genera, and a discussion of the generic affinities are included. /// De junio de 1997 a Octubre de 1998 se hizo un estudio comparativo de Brachypelmides y de las especies de Brachypelma. Se revisaron especmenes de ambos gneros obtenidos en el campo recientemente y ms de 100 especmenes de cinco diferentes colecciones para realizar este estudio. Los resultados muestran que hay seis especies endmicas al Pacfico mexicano de Brachypelma (B. auratum, B. baumgarteni, B. boehmei, B. emillia, B. pallidum, B. smithi), presentando una distribucin continua a lo largo de la costa del Pacfico, siendo interrumpida por la distribucin de B. klaasi. Brachypelma vagans se distribuye en ambas costas y Brachypelmides ruhnaui en el centro del pas. Se incluyen notas de historia natural, una comparacin morfolgica de 27 caractersticas de estos gneros y una discusin de las afinidades genricas. 
40233837|The genus Trachelas from the Iberian Peninsula is revised. A new species, Trachelas ibericus from Spain, is described from both sexes, and the female of T. validus Simon 1884, an Iberian endemic, is described for the first time. Data are presented for the occurrence of T. canariensis Wunderlich 1987 and T. macrochelis Wunderlich 1992, formerly considered Canarian endemics, on the Iberian Peninsula. Trachelas praestans (O. Pickard-Cambridge 1911) is synonymized with Creugas gulosus Thorell 1878. Trachelas purus Kritscher 1969 is synonymized with T. rayi Simon 1878, and T. flavipes L. Koch 1882 with T. maculatus Thorell 1875. A diagnosis, descriptions, illustrations, distribution data, and a key are presented for the eight presently known Trachelas species of the Mediterranean region. In addition, an update is given on the presence of Cetonana laticeps (Canestrini 1868) in Spain. /// En este estudio se hace una revisin del gnero Trachelas en la Pennsula ibrica. Se describe Trachelas ibericus, con ambos sexos de Espaa; se describe por primera vez la hembra de T. validus Simon 1884, endemismo ibrico. Se presentan datos sobre la presencia de T. canariensis Wunderlich 1987 y T. macrochelis Wunderlich 1992, especies consideradas antes como endemismos canarios, en la peninsula ibrica. Se sinonimiza T. praestans (O. Pickard-Cambridge 1911) con Creugas gulosus Thorell 1878. Se sinonimiza T. purus Kritscher 1969 con T. rayi Simon 1878, as como T. flavipes L. Koch 1882 con T. maculatus Thorell 1875. Una diagnosis, descripciones, ilustraciones, datos de distribuCin, y una clave de las ocho especies mediterrneas de Trachelas conocidas hasta ahora son aportados. Adems se aportan datos que clariflcan la presencia de Cetonana laticeps (Canestrini 1868) en Espaa.
3706391|A female Argyrodes trigonum (Theridiidae) was observed feeding on a female Linyphia triangularis (Linyphiidae), a recently established European immigrant in Maine. Multiple observations of Argyrodes spiders inhabiting L. triangularis webs suggest that this invasive sheet-web weaver is not immune to web invasions, kleptoparasitism or predation by A. trigonum. The potential impacts of A. trigonum on the invasion dynamics of L. triangularis are unknown, but likely to be minimal.
20798588|The native Nearctic species of the family Sparassidae are revised. Eight synonymies are proposed, reducing the number of species of five: Olios schistus Chamberlin 1919, O. scepticus Chamberlin 1924 and O. positivus Chamberlin 1924 with O. peninsulanus Banks 1898; O. albinus Fox 1937 and O. foxi Roewer 1951 with O. naturalisticus Chamberlin 1924. Olios concolor Keyserling 1884 and O. pragmaticus Chamberlin 1924 are removed from the synonymy of O. fasciculatus Simon 1880 and synonymized with O. giganteus Keyserling 1884. All species currently included in the genus Olios Walckenaer 1837 are redescribed and illustrated, and new distribution records are presented. Comparisons between these species and the type species of the genus Olios, Olios argelasius (Walckenaer 1805), shows that none of them are congeneric and that true Olios does not occur in the Nearctic region. Nevertheless, the correct placement of these species in new genera will only be possible after a more thorough revision of the Nearctic and Neotropical fauna, especially that of Mexico and Central America.
25654017|Nuptial gifts in spiders are poorly documented. We report on an observation and on photographs of a colonial web in San Vicente de Chucur, Santander, Colombia, which suggest a likely case of nuptial gift behavior in a male of the kleptoparasitic spider Argyrodes elevatus Taczanowski 1873 (Araneae: Theridiidae). Pictures of a male A. elevatus holding a dead Cyclosa huila Levi 1999 (Araneae: Araneidae) wrapped in silk, in close proximity to a female A. elevatus facing him, document the couple at various moments at dusk and early the following morning. While no copulation is seen, these pictures suggest an attempt by the male to deliver a nuptial gift. Our observations support a recent report of apparent nuptial gift behavior in A. elevatus and raise questions on the foraging behavior of kleptoparasitic spiders in communal webs.
4129813| The first known males of the spider Plectreurys arida Gertsch are described from the xeric shrub habitats and houses of Baja California Sur, Mxico. Males have a smaller carapace and abdomen than females. The length and spination formula of the first leg differ from females; the first legs are longer, and the chelicerae have stridulating grooves in males. 
4149977|A lectotype is designated for Centruroides elegans edentulus Werner 1939, originally described from Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico. It is declared a junior synonym of Centruroides limpidus (Karsch 1879).
3705941| A revised diagnosis is given for the scorpion Vaejovis bilineatus Pocock, a member of the eusthenura group, based on newer characters of taxonomic importance. New distributional records presented herein expand the known range of the species to cover much of northeastern Mexico, specifically the states of Coahuila, Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, Aguascalientes, Guanajuato, and San Luis Potos. The results of an analysis of character variation involving coloration, pectinal tooth counts, pedipalp chela finger dentition, trichobothrial patterns, morphometrics, and setal counts of the pedipalps and metasoma are also provided. 
3706116| Sybota atlantica new species is described from the Atlantic coast of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. The morphology of genitalia and carapace suggests that the new species forms a monophyletic group with S. mendozae Opell 1979 and S. rana (Mello-Leito 1941). The female genitalia of the genus shows an unusual grade of entelegyny, with copulatory and fertilization ducts leading to a common tube. /// Sybota atlantica nueva especie es descripta para la costa atlntica de la provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. La morfologa genital y ceflica sugiere que la nueva especie forma un grupo monofiltico con S. mendozae Opell 1979 y S. rana (Mello-Leito 1941). Los rganos genitales femeninos muestran un inusual grado de enteleginia, con los conductos de copulacin y fertilizacin convergiendo en un tubo comn. 
3705890|During some of the intervals between bouts of pheromone-stimulated courtship display, isolated male Rabidosa rabida (Araneae, Lycosidae) perform a single pivot. In an investigation of the control of this turning behavior, males were tested under four conditions. Two of these were visual, a uniform environment or one with images, and two were non-visual, all eyes occulded or dim red lighting. The turning angle and the tendency to change the direction of turning were measured for the first three conditions, and no significant differences were found. This suggests that the turns are controlled idiothetically. Another parameter, the tendency to perform the turns, was reduced under dim red light but not in blinded spiders under white light, the latter suggesting the occurrence of extraocular photoreception.
3705553|Spectral sensitivity curves to light between 425 and 650 nm for the four eyes of the spider Argiope argentata were determined. Maximum sensitivity was observed at 530 nm for the secondary eyes and at 525 nm for the principal ones. Chromatic adaptation did not affect this maximum, which suggests that there is only one receptor and photopigment in this spectral region.
3705831| Nine species of the sixteen that comprise the Hippasinae indicated for South America are studied. Allocosa brasiliensis (Petrunkevitch, 1910) n. comb. (=Moenkhausiana brasiliensis Petrunkevitch = Araucaniocosa difficilis Mello-Leito n. syn.) is redescribed and the data of the habitat where it occurs is reported. The taxa of Glieschiella Mello-Leito are considered "species inquirenda". They should be better placed into Allocosa. Hogna birabenae (Mello-Leito, 1941) n. comb. (= Birabenia birabenae Mello-Leito) is not redescribed completely. Birabenia taeniata Mello-Leito, 1943 is considered "species incerta" because the holotype is juvenile (it should be a Tetragonophthalma, Pisauridae). Although Sosippus nitidus (Mello-Leito, 1944) n. comb. (= Hippasella nitida Mello-Leito) is not redescribed (its holotype is damaged), it is being studied. All taxa are transferred into three subfamilies: Allocosinae, Lycosinae and Sosippinae. /// Se estudian nueve de las dieciseis especies que comprenden las Hippasinae indicadas para Amrica del Sur. Se redescribe Allocosa brasiliensis (Petrunkevitch, 1910) n. comb. (= Moenkhausiana brasiliensis Petrunkevitch = Araucaniocosa difficilis Mello-Leito n. syn.) y se dan datos sobre el hbitat donde vive. Los taxones de Glieschiella son considerados como "species inquirenda", y mejor ubicados bajo Allocosa. Hogna birabenae (Mello-Leito, 1941) n. comb. (= Birabenia birabenae Mello-Leito) se redescribe fragmentariamente. Birabenia taeniata Mello-Leito, 1943 se considera "species incerta", debido a que el holotipo es un ejemplar juvenil (sera una Tetragonophthalma, Pisauridae). Se estudia Sosippus nitidus (Mello-Leito, 1944) n. comb. (= Hippasella nitida Mello-Leito) aunque no se describe porque el holotipo est muy deteriorado. Todos los taxones se redistribuyen en tres subfamilias: Allocosinae, Lycosinae y Sosippinae. 
4129799|Aggregation, extended mother-offspring-sibling interactions, and complex social behaviors are extremely rare among arachnids. We report and quantify for the first time in Amblypygi prolonged mother-offspring-sibling associations, active aggregation, and frequent "amicable" (tolerant, nonaggressive) tactile interactions in two species: Phrynus marginemaculatus C.L. Koch 1840 (Phrynidae) and Damon diadema (Simon, 1876) (Phrynichidae). Sociality is characterized by frequent contact and tolerance, and infrequent agonism until sexual maturity in D. diadema and into adulthood in P. marginemaculatus. We experimentally examined potential benefits and costs affecting aggregation: risk of predation, preferred habitats and prey availability. Only increased predation risk decreased nearest-neighbor distances and increased maternal vigilance. Individuals aggregated on a variety of surface textures and locations that varied daily, rather than aggregating only on preferred microhabitats. Manipulation of prey abundance had no affect on the tendency to aggregate. Patterns of parental care, duration of association, and the presence of social traits found in the most social taxa of non-spider arachnids are reviewed. Species in most arachnid orders have transient parental care with defense of eggs, a brief period of association with newly emerged young prior to independent foraging and explosive dispersal from the natal nest. More prolonged sociality, with long-term associations among mothers-offspring-siblings is rare and is only described in a few species in the Amblypygi, Scorpionida, Pseudoscorpionida, and Acari. All such species have subsocial origins, but current use of the term subsocial is overly broad and we propose a more restricted terminology for clarity.
23048778|We collected data on maternal mass, clutch mass (reproductive effort), number of offspring, and mean offspring mass from 28 species of Lycosidae (wolf spiders) and five species of Pisauridae (nursery-web spiders) found in Mississippi, USA. Our primary goal was to test for a trade-off between offspring number and offspring size (mass) among wolf and nursery-web spiders, which are sister families. The regression of reproductive effort on maternal mass was highly significant and explained 94% of the variation in reproductive effort among species and 96% of the variation among genera. The slope of the regression line between maternal mass and total offspring mass was not significantly different from one, suggesting that spiders used a constant proportion of their total energy budget for reproduction regardless of size. Partial correlation and principal components analyses demonstrated a clear trade-off between offspring size and number. Species with large offspring (relative to adult size) produced fewer offspring than expected. Lycosids produced small numbers of large offspring relative to pisaurids, and smaller species of both families are more constrained in the evolution of the offspring size:number continuum than larger ones.
3705233|Thirty-two species representing 11 genera of Gnaphosidae are recorded from north-central Texas. The study has extended the ranges of Callilepis chisos Platnick and Shadab, Gnaphosa altudona Chamberlin, Haplodrassus chamberlini Platnick and Shadab, Herpyllus hesperolus Chamberlin, Nodocion rufithoracicus Worley, Rachodrassus captiosus (Gertsch and Davis), and Sergiolus angustus (Banks). Habitat and natural history data for species are presented.
3705073| Zelotes javanus (Kulczyski) from Java and Drassodes ciusi Berland from New Caledonia are transferred to the genus Odontodrassus Jzquel, previously known only from West Africa. The latter species is newly synonymized with the former, which is newly recorded from the Philippine, Solomon, and Marshall Islands, and from Jamaica. Other records greatly increase the known range of Odontodrassus in continental areas. 
3706075|The feeding behavior of the cave pseudoscorpion Maxchernes iporangae Mahnert & Andrade 1998 was studied in the laboratory. We also investigated aspects such as preference and frequency. Nymphs are more active in prey capture. Cannibalism is uncommon. The frequency of feeding of adults was about once a month, with an increased rate for females during the reproductive period.
4129870|The limited resources available to inventory biodiversity and conduct ecological monitoring requires efficient protocols for sampling with pitfall traps. Here we consider adding different length drift-fences to pitfall traps on spiders. Four different fencing treatments (no fence, or fence lengths of 2, 4 and 6 m) were evaluated in combination with three trap diameters (4.3, 7.0 and 11.1 cm). Three-way ANOVAs revealed no significant interaction effects between any combinations of fencing treatments, trap size or the spatial positioning of transects within the study site along which traps were arranged. Post-hoc tests showed fences significantly increased the abundance of individuals and richness of spider families, and species collected. Traps with 6 m fences were significantly higher in all of these variables than traps with 2 m fences. ANOSIMs revealed taxonomic composition differed significantly between fenced and unfenced traps at familial, and specific ranks. Among fenced traps, taxonomic composition was influenced primarily by trap diameter rather than fence length. ANOSIMs showed significant differences in taxonomic composition between each trap diameter for fenced traps. An optimal combination of fencing treatment and trap diameter was determined by constructing smoothed species accumulation curves for increasing numbers of traps. Four criteria were considered: equivalent numbers of traps, standardized cumulative trap circumference, standardized cumulative fence length (fenced traps only) and standardized cumulative handling time. For the same number of traps, 11.1 cm traps with 4 and 6 m fences collected the most species. At a standardized trap circumference, long fences were best, with all trap sizes catching similar numbers of species. When fence length was standardized, 11.1 cm traps with 2 or 4 m fences collected the most species. At a standardized handling time all traps caught very similar numbers of species, although most 11.1 cm diameter traps collected more species than other trap sizes and those with 4 m fences were most efficient. Given the similar performance of fenced and unfenced traps for standardized handling time, we outline reasons why unfenced traps may be best.
3706100|The fourth metatarsus of cribellate spiders bears a setal comb, the calamistrum, that sweeps over the cribellum, drawing fibrils from its spigots and helping to combine these with the capture thread's supporting fibers. In four uloborid species (Hyptiotes cavatus, Miagrammopes animotus, Octonoba sinensis, Uloborus glomosus), calamistrum length and cribellum width have similar developmental trajectories, despite being borne on different regions of the body. In contrast, developmental rates of metatarsus IV and its calamistrum differ within species and vary independently among species. Thus, the growth rates of metatarsus IV and the calamistrum are not coupled, freeing calamistrum length to track cribellum width and metatarsus IV length to respond to changes in such features as combing behavior and abdomen dimensions.
3705709|Game theory predicts that resource value and fighting ability should affect the cost of fighting. I tested these predictions in the field with the pholcid spider Holocnemus pluchei, a facultatively group-living spider. Three species of prey were tested: fruit flies, house flies, and damselflies. Larger prey species required more time to subdue, but still represented resources of greater value because of their high caloric content. Fights were increasingly more common with increasing size of prey species. However, prey species did not significantly affect the intensity of fights, in contrast to predictions from game theory. Fights were most intense between individuals of the same size, as predicted by game theory. Holocnemus spiders do not appear to benefit from interactions with conspecifics in group webs.
3706222|The scaber group of the genus Eremobates is reviewed in terms of new characters and a more restricted biogeographic area. Three new species are described from the U.S.A.: Eremobates socal (California), E. icenoglei (California), E. corpink (Utah). We synonymize E. gladiolus Muma with E. scaber (Kraepelin); E. consors Muma, E. ascopulatus Muma and E. flavus with E. ascopulatus Muma; and E. mimbrenus Muma with E. mormonus (Roewer). Eremobates scaber, E. hodai Muma, E. clarus Muma, E. similis Muma are now described from both sexes. All scaber species except the Mexican species, E. legalis Harvey, are now known from both sexes. We also present the first phylogeny of the species group based on morphological characters. This phylogeny demonstrates a geographic grouping into northern and southern clades.
3705610| Over a 14-month period, 2785 spiders of 70 species were collected by 114 pitfall trap samples and 68 sweepnet samples in a 2.5 ha abandoned horse pasture adjacent to a cotton field in Washington County, Mississippi. Mean numbers of spiders per sample were approximately equal by pitfall (x = 15) and sweepnet (x = 16) methods. Individuals of the Lycosidae (42.6%), Thomisidae (16.2%), and Salticidae (14.4%) comprised almost three-fourths of all spiders collected. Individuals of 13 other families were also collected. Web-spinners comprised 21.4% of the species (n = 15) and 13.9% of the individuals (n = 386), whereas wanderers comprised 78.6% of the species (n = 55) and 86.1% of the individuals (n = 2399). Eighteen species occurred only in the sweepnet (foliage) samples, 31 species only in the pitfall (ground) samples, and 21 species occurred in both sampled strata. Foliage spiders (mostly immatures) reached peak population levels in June and July and again in October and November. Very low densities occurred in August and September, with intermediate levels throughout the winter and spring leading to peak adult densities in April. Ground spiders reached peak population levels in March (mostly adults) and July (mostly immatures). A comparison of the composition and structure of this spider community with other old field sites and other potentially adjacent crop and non-crop habitats suggests considerable similarity. A possible role for spiders in cotton pest management is considered. 
3706151|Copulatory behavior of Tidarren sisyphoides is described for the first time. Courtship proceeds without construction of a mating thread. The male dies during insertion and remains coupled to the female epigynum for 2.4 hours on average (n = 15). In contrast to other species hitherto studied, females of T. sisyphoides do not consume their mates after copulation. Instead, the dead males are removed from the webs by the females.
3705757|Specimens of Siro exilis Hoffman, Vonones sayi (Simon), Erebomaster sp., Leiobunum vittatum (Say), Leiobunum holtae McGhee, Hadrobunus maculosus (Wood), Eumesosoma nigrum (Say), Odiellus pictus (Wood), Caddo agilis Banks, and Hesperonemastoma kepharti (Crosby and Bishop) were investigated using scanning electron microscopy. Features of the dorsal integument of each specimen are described using available terminology. Variations in the generalized tuberculate-granulate morphology were observed in eight of the ten species studied. V. sayi, C. agilis, and O. pictus exhibit a morphological gradient in features of their dorsal integuments. The presence of micropores is reported from the apices of tubercles of L. vittatum, L. holtae, H. maculosus, and O. pictus and from the cuticular backgrounds of S. exilis, V. sayi, and E. nigrum. The morphological descriptions and comparisons presented provide a terminology for describing opilionid cuticular features.
24717284|Despite the importance of tarantulas in the areas of medicine and veterinary science, there is very little information on parasitoid-tarantula interactions. The present study describes the case of an endangered tarantula, Brachypelma vagans Ausserer 1875, infested by an endoparasitoid in the field. Using DNA barcoding, we identified the parasitoid as the phorid Megaselia scalaris. With more than 500 fly larvae inside the host, this particular infestation can be considered severe. The size range of the larvae indicates infestation by all three larval instars. We discuss the possible mechanism by which the parasitoid is attracted to the tarantula and make important recommendations regarding improvements in tarantula-rearing conditions. Finally, this case study exemplifies the efficiency of molecular technology for parasitoid identification.
3705336|Trechalea magnifica (Pisauridae) inhabit small streams in Costa Rica. Except for a few juveniles, these spiders were always active at night. This nocturnal activity may be due to temporal changes in predation risk and food availability. Predation risk was lower at night, whereas food was more abundant during the day. The diet of this species includes freshwater shrimp, a prey item previously unreported for spiders. These spiders construct hemispherical egg cases and carry them to their spinnerets: characteristics atypical of the family Pisauridae.
3706175|Many species of spider disperse by ballooning (aerial dispersal), and indices of aerial activity are required in studies of population dynamics and biological control in field crops where spider immigrants are needed for pest suppression. Current methods (e.g., suction traps, sticky traps, deposition traps) of monitoring aerial activity are very labor-intensive, expensive, or require a power supply. We tested Ballooning Index (BI), an alternative, simple method utilizing inexpensive equipment. This method involved the monitoring of spiders climbing an array of 30 cm tall wooden sticks placed vertically in short turf. During a two-year study in arable land in the UK, the incidence of spiders (mainly Linyphiidae) on sticks was correlated with the numbers caught at 1.4 m and 12.2 m above ground in suction traps. Climbing activity on sticks was greater during the morning than in the afternoon, and this activity started progressively earlier in summer than in winter. There was no seasonal change in the proportion of spiders caught at the two heights in suction traps. The pattern of catches (on sticks and in suction traps) suggested strongly that the majority of ballooning spiders dispersed by a number of short flights, rather than by a single long flight, and that segregation of immigrants and emigrants is not possible by any current method. The BI method appears to be, however, a simple and reliable technique for monitoring the overall aerial activity of ballooning spiders.
20788628|A new species of Trechalea Thorell 1869, T. rothi from Colombia, South America, is described, illustrated and compared with the only other two species of the genus also known from Colombia, T. longitaris (C.L. Koch 1848) and T. lomalinda Carico 1993. Additionally, it is compared with the similar species, T. trinidadensis Carico 1993. A single female from Par, Brazil, is also described and illustrated as a new species, Enna xingu, based on features of the genitalia.
24717316|The accumulation of microbes in and around the large, perennial nests of social arthropods can increase the potential for interactions between individuals and harmful pathogens. Accordingly, many social insects utilize multiple organizational lines of individual and collective defenses against microbes. The interaction between microbes and social spiders, however, has been almost entirely unexplored. Here, we use the social spider Stegodyphus dumicola Pocock 1898 (Araneae: Eresidae) to (1) probe how innate immunity varies among individuals and (2) determine if two types of silk extracted from their colonies can inhibit the growth of the entomopathogenic bacteria Bacillus thuringiensis. Individual spiders' innate immunity against lyophilized cells of Micrococcus luteus varied negatively with their boldness, a behavioral metric important for individual foraging and the organization of collective behaviors. Further, silk from both the capture webs and retreats of uncontaminated colonies inhibited the growth of B. thuringiensis to a small degree. Thus, web construction might represent a form of collective anti-microbial defense in these social spiders. This preliminary evidence suggest that social spider societies may exhibit antimicrobial defenses on multiple levels of organization, including both individual- and group-level defenses.
3704937| A correction is made to the original description of the genus Arachnomura Mello-Leitao, 1917, and the type species A. hieroglyphica is redescribed. Arachnomura adfectuosa sp. n. from the Buenos Aires austral mountains is described, with notes on its habits. Additional information on Cyllodania bicruciata Simon, 1902 is presented, including the description of the female allotype. /// Se efectan correcciones a la descripcin original del gnero Arachnomura Mello-Leitao, 1917 y se redescribe la especie tipo A. hieroglyphica. Se describe A. adfectuosa sp. n. de las sierras australes de Buenos Aires; se dan detalles sobre sus hbitos. Se presenta informacin adicional sobre Cyllodania bicruciata Simon, 1902, incluyendo la descripcin del Allotypus hembra. 
40233821|Two female specimens of an undescribed species of stylocellid harvestman (Opiliones, Stylocellidae) from Sulawesi were extracted in methanol, and compounds in the product were identified by means of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Nineteen significant peaks were found, 12 of which were identified, indicating the presence of naphthoquinone, 2-tridecanone, 2-tetradecanone, 2-pentadecanone, 6-methyl-1, 4-naphthoquinone, 6-methyl-1, 4-naphthalenediol, and at least four unsaturated ketones. The spectrum differed both qualitatively and quantitatively from previously published data on Siro exilis Hoffman 1963 and Cyphophthalmus duricorius Joseph 1868 (Sironidae).
3705387|Groups of size 1, 2, 5, 10 and 20 Mallos gregalis were monitored under laboratory conditions with the aid of a computer-controlled digital camera. Data collected included a measure of the density and complexity of the silk comprising the nest, as well as activity levels and occupation of space within experimental arenas. Average web density and complexity was related to colony size, with the larger colonies building more complex nests. I suggest that the greater web complexity would allow larger colonies greater opportunities for the exploitation of marginal habitats. The webs built by the two smaller groupings were similar to those built by solitary dictynids and indicated that M. gregalis may be a facultatively-social spider. An estimate of mean silk deposition per spider indicated that members of the larger colonies exerted less effort in web construction than spiders in the two smaller groupings. Colony activity was related to group size and exhibited evidence for a group effect in the patterning of activity bouts. It is possible that this would aid in coordinating colony behavior. Measures of both web structure and colony activity indicated that the changes in colony behavior were not due to a simple arithmetic effect (e.g., size 20 colonies were neither twice as active nor were their webs twice as complex as colonies of size 10).
3706284| The dynamics of spiders present in abandoned Trinervitermes trinervoides (Sjstedt) termite mounds were studied over a period of one year, from March 1999 to January 2000, with five mounds excavated on a bimonthly basis. All spiders present in the mound were collected by hand and preserved in 70% ethanol. A total of 771 spiders represented by 21 families and 82 species were collected from the 30 mounds during the course of the study. The most abundant were the Gnaphosidae, which represented 37.87% of all spiders collected, followed by the Salticidae (12.97%), Pholcidae (10.51%) and Oonopidae (9.60%). These were the only families that represented more than 5% of the spider fauna. The most abundant species were Zelotes fuligineus (Purcell 1907) (Gnaphosidae) (11.69%), Smeringopus sambesicus Kraus 1957 (Pholcidae) (10.51%), Heliophanus sp. (Salticidae) (9.86%) and a Gamasomorphinae sp. (Oonopidae) (9.21%). A correlation was found between spider abundance and mound height, surface perforation of the mound and season of collection. Spider numbers were highest in mounds with a high surface degradation, while a tendency existed for an increase in numbers with increased mound height. Web-building spiders (Pholcidae and Theridiidae) were largely limited to mounds with a cavity in the structure. 
3705922| Xenonemesia platense, a new genus and species of nemesiid spider from Argentina and Uruguay, is described and figured. The new genus is characterized by having a wide sternum, slightly raised tarsal organ, slight scopula, apical article of posterior spinnerets domed, and by the absence of serrula, male tibial apophyses, keels on the bulb, and third claw. /// Se describe e ilustra a Xenonemesia platense, un nuevo gnero y especie de Argentina y Uruguay. El nuevo gnero se caracteriza por tener esternn ancho, rgano tarsal ligeramente elevado, escpula rala, artejo apical de las hileras posteriores hemisfrico, y por la ausencia de srrula, apfisis tibiales en el macho, carenas en el bulbo y tercer ua. 
3705775| The available material of the species Roncus lubricus L. Koch, 1873, from North America and South Europe has been studied. It was concluded that specimens of R. lubricus from the United States belong to the nominal subspecies. Furthermore, it is assumed that the USA populations of this subspecies were probably introduced by human activity. A new subspecies, R. lubricus pannonius, from Yugoslavia is described. A key to the subspecies of R. lubricus is presented. An analysis of the available type material from the collection of J. Hadi has supported the elevation of two of his subspecies to full specific rank: Roncus tenuis Hadi, 1933, new status, and R. dalmatinus Hadi, 1933, new status, both from northern Dalmatia, Yugoslavia. These two species were formerly regarded as subspecies of R. lubricus, but this study revealed that they are not members of the R. lubricus group (since they both lack microsetae proximal to eb and esb). Both species are considered endemics to the Balkan Peninsula. Most diagnostic characters of the analyzed taxa are thoroughly described or figured. Some taxonomic interrelationships and features of geographic distribution have been also briefly discussed. 
4129831|This study investigates how arboreal spider communities in SE-Asian primary lowland rain forests change after anthropogenic disturbance. Two types of secondary forests were distinguished: 1) forests adjacent to each other, which finally merged into primary forest and 2) forests that were isolated by at least 10 km from the primary forest. Three forests of different age were investigated from each type and compared with undisturbed primary forest. All disturbed forests had been used some years for agriculture and were then left between 5 and 50 years to regenerate naturally. Spiders from at least seven trees per forest type were collected using insecticidal knockdown fogging and sorted to species or morphospecies level. Spiders represented between 5-10% of all canopy arthropods. A similar number of spiders were collected per square meter from all trees. However, communities in the primary forest differed greatly in their alpha- and beta-diversity and in community structure from those in the disturbed forest types. Diversity was high in the regenerating forests connected to the primary forest and approximated the conditions of the primary forest during the course of forest succession. In contrast, the isolated forests were of low diversity and communities showed little change during forest regeneration. These results indicate the importance of a species-source from which disturbed forests can be recolonized. However, even under optimal conditions this process needed decades before spider communities became similar to those of the primary forest. With no species-source available, spider diversity changed little during 50 years of forest regeneration. In the isolated forest we observed a drastic turnover from forest species towards species characteristic of open vegetation and shrubs. Our results give an indication of how large a loss in diversity can be expected in isolated forest fragments.
3704941|Two distinct types of population structure are present in the spider Achaearanea tepidariorum, each with totally different dynamics and behavior. The floating population or dispersion stage is composed entirely of second instar spiderlings, representing about 99 per cent of the total produced by the species. This population is characterized by a very diverse genetic composition and a high mortality. Several different strategies are observed in spiders in general to reduce mortality in the second instar. The established population is composed of individuals with snaring webs and sedentary habits, and begins as an immature population after the invasion of an available habitat by the second instar. During this phase, its numbers increase first at the maximum intrinsic rate until the maximum habitat capacity has been reached. In a mature population more than 65 per cent of the biomass is contributed by the adult individuals.
4129885|A new technique for examining the exomorphology of the scorpion epicuticle is described that utilizes the fluorescent property of scorpion cuticle. Fluorescence of the scorpion exoskeleton under longwave ultraviolet light is a well known property previously only utilized for the capture or observation of scorpions at night. Fluorescence is an energy emission that is analogous to the secondary electron emissions utilized in electron microscopy to provide information about surface detail. This new technique is fast, inexpensive and non-destructive, and provides an alternative means of documenting of surface macrosculpture for the description and identification of scorpion species.
3705453| Goniosoma spelaeum (Mello-Leito 1932), a cavernicolous species in the Ribeira Valley, southeastern Brazil, was studied in the field and laboratory. The defensive behaviors were: nipping with the chelicerae; delivery of a sharp pinch with the fourth coxae and femora; rapidly running away; dropping from the cave ceiling and remaining concealed against the substrate; and emission of a chemical defense compound. The delivery mechanisms of the defensive secretion were either by spreading the substance on its own body through a lateral groove, or by projecting it as a jet directly at the aggressor. The defensive substance is a mixture of enteric fluid, which runs from the mouth into ventral and lateral channels, with quinones collected from the scent gland openings located next to the lateral margins of coxae II. Electron microscope analysis of the external structure of the exocrine gland opening revealed a second aperture which could be responsible for the jet emission. Two quinones (2-ethyl-1,4-benzoquinone and 2,3,5-trimethyl-1,4-benzoquinone) were identified from the defensive secretion; the first is reported herein for the first time in opilionids. Four other species of Goniosoma Perty 1833 from epigean and hypogean environments showed similar behaviors. 
3705206|Described in Part I is Paleokoenenia mordax, new genus and species, an interesting eukoeneniid palpigrade from the late Tertiary of Arizona. Part II includes important morphological descriptions of the Palpigradida, some of which are important to inter- and intraordinal relationships. Part III provides a review of the systematics of the supraspecific taxa, the number of species known, and includes diagnoses of and a key to the two families and seven genera. Also given is a list of the species with their general distribution. Part IV contains the primary bibliographic references for the order.
25434310|Tityus stigmurus (Thorell 1876) is one of the most medically important scorpion species in Brazil, but many basic aspects of its life history are unknown. Here the pattern of female reproductive investment was examined, along with development of the 1st and 2nd instars and the relationship between 2nd instar mass and molting to the 3rd instar. Relative to other buthid scorpions, T. stigmurus has a smaller litter (average 10 young) and a shorter 1st-instar period (average 4 days) and 2nd-instar period (average 68 days). Neither litter size nor offspring mass showed a relationship to female size. A significant positive correlation was observed between total litter mass and litter size. The minimum mass required for successful molting to the 3rd instar was 34.0 mg. Overall, female reproductive resources in T. stigmurus appear to be applied to the production of more but not heavier offspring.
23610261|Pitfall traps are a common and inexpensive sampling method for epigeal spiders. They are most effective when the top edge of the trap is flush with the soil surface, which is not always possible if soil disturbance is prohibited, the soil layers are thin or the substrate is only exposed rock. Ramp traps are also inexpensive to construct and do not require soil disturbance, making them an appealing alternative to pitfall traps. We tested the efficacy of ramp traps for capturing wandering spiders at the Fort Pierre National Grassland in central South Dakota, USA. We set parallel transects of pitfall and ramp traps during three sampling periods from late May to early August 2010. Ramp traps captured twice as many individuals and, on average, 1.1  0.34 SE more species than pitfall traps. Overall, ramp traps outperformed pitfall traps, and ramp traps are better for non-permanent sampling at point-specific locations.
4129859| Mesabolivar luteus (Keyserling 1891) and Micropholcus fauroti (Simon 1887) specimens were collected in Ubatuba and Rio Claro, both in the state of So Paulo, Brazil. Mesabolivar luteus showed 2n () = 15 = 14 + X and 2n () = 16 = 14 + XX in mitotic metaphases and 7II + X in diplotenic cells. During late prophase I, all bivalents presented a ring shape, evidencing two chiasmata per bivalent. In this species, some diplotenic cells appear in pairs, maybe due to specific characteristics of the intercellular bridges. The metaphases II showed n = 7 or n = 8 = 7 + X chromosomes. Micropholcus fauroti evidenced 2n () = 17 = 16 + X in spermatogonial metaphases and 8II+X in diplotenic cells, with only one chiasma per bivalent, contrasting with M. luteus. In both species, all chromosomes were metacentrics. The sexual chromosome X was the largest element and appeared as a univalent during meiosis I. These are the first cytogenetical data for the genera Mesabolivar and Micropholcus. Additionally, M. luteus is the first chromosomally analyzed species of the New World clade and the observed diploid number for M. fauroti had not yet been recorded in Pholcidae. 
25434319|This paper provides the description of a new species in the genus Zabius Thorell (Scorpiones, Buthidae), Z. gaucho n. sp., from four localities in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. It differs from Zabius fuscus (Thorell 1877) and Z. birabeni Mello-Leito 1938 in details of the telson shape, the longitudinal carinae on mesosomal tergites II-VI, and the number of pectinal teeth. The genus was hitherto known only from Argentina, Z. fuscus being a frequent inhabitant of the central Sierras; Z. birabeni, in turn, is probably a rare and non-orophilous scorpion, collected in scattered localities on the monte/chaco ecotone and in northern Patagonia. The presence of a species of Zabius in southern Brazil lends additional support to the generalized distributional track known as "peripampasic track," which zoogeographically links the central Sierras Pampeanas with ancient mountains in the southern province of Buenos Aires, southeastern Uruguay and southern Brazil. /// Neste trabalho descrevemos uma espcie nova do gnero Zabius Thorell (Scorpiones, Buthidae), Z. gaucho n.sp., procendente de quatro localidades do Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil. Distingue-se de Zabius fuscus (Thorell 1877) e Z. birabeni Mello-Leito 1938 por detalhes da morfologia do telson, das cristas longitudinais dos tergitos do mesossoma, e pelo nmero de dentes pectneos. O gnero era conhecido at o momento s para a Argentina, sendo Z. fuscus um escorpio muito freqente na regio serrana central; Z. birabeni, no entanto,  aparentemente uma espcie no orfila e rara, coletada em localidades dispersas no ectono monte/chaco (oeste do pas) e no norte da Patagonia. A presena de uma espcie de Zabius no sul do Brasil representa um apoio adicional ao padro generalizado de distribuio denominado de "track peripampasico", que vincula zoogeogrficamente as Sierras Pampeanas com sistemas orogrficos antigos do sul da Provncia de Buenos Aires, do sudeste do Uruguai e do sul do Brasil.
3705557|Two albino individuals of Urodacus yaschenkoi (Birula 1903) were caught among a normally pigmented population in South Australia. These are illustrated and discussed. Microscopy of the eyes shows that the melanin granules normally present in the epidermis and in the retina are represented by non-pigmented premelanosomes. Though the components of the eye are all present, the rhabdoms are abnormal, consisting of reduced and disorganised microvilli. The phaospheres, present in retinula cells, are also abnormal. The nature of the defects and their possible consequence are discussed.
3705973|The scanning electron microscope was used to examine embryos at a stage when booklungs and spiracles are forming. Earlier studies with scorpion fossils suggest there was ventral mesosomal transition from gills or booklungs above ventral plates to sternites, booklungs and spiracles. In Hadrurus arizonensis (Iuridae), ventral plates and then sternites are formed on the ventral surface of mesosomal segments before spiracles appear. Bilateral invaginations in body segments XII-XV apparently give rise to the booklungs, with spiracles formed lateral to the site of invagination. Sternites with bilateral depressions were also present before spiracles in embryos of the buthid Centruroides exilicauda. In the developmental stages herein examined, spiracles were formed in embryos of Paruroctonus mesaensis (Vaejovidae); but there was no indication of ventral plates or sternites on the ventral mesosoma. Spiracles appear in the intersegmental area posterior to body segments XIII-XV. Booklungs may form later from primordia associated with bilateral depressions observed in a later stage in these segments.
3705244|Phidippus audax (Hentz) has been considered a single variable species by some taxonomists and two or more distinct species by others. Individual northern and southern specimens, though similar, can usually be distinguished by differences in size and markings evident even to the naked eye. Closer examination, however, failed to reveal consistent differences in morphology between northern and southern populations. Observed behavioral patterns that were compared also failed to show discernible differences. Laboratory cultures of separate and mixed populations were maintained through three generations. Conversely, inter-geographical cross-matings indicated a degree of incompatibility between the populations. Matings between northern and southern specimens were less successfully achieved than intra-geographical matings. The number of viable young produced by cross-mated females was consistently less than the number produced by females mated to males from their own region. Further, the progeny of cross-bred spiders, when they were mated after maturity, produced even fewer viable young. Such evidence of incompatibility between northern and southern forms may indicate a clinal population.
3706161| The life history and social behavior of two sympatric spider species, Anelosimus jabaquara and A. dubiosus (family Theridiidae), were examined to provide comparative data of intermediate social behaviors in this genus of social spiders. Both species occur in sympatry in a subtropical humid lowland forest in Brazil and shared very similar life history traits such as univoltinism and slightly biased subadult sex ratios with more females per colony than males. Reproduction in A. jabaquara took place in early summer (December) and the brood developed during winter (April to October) under the care of females. But the reproductive periods in A. dubiosus and A. jabaquara were desynchronized by one month with A. dubiosus reaching maturity and mating in November. Both species showed cooperation in spinning and repairing the colonial web, in capturing prey and caring for the brood. When compared to A. jabaquara, in A. dubiosus there were 2.6 more individual spiders per colony, 1.4 more females than males, the colonial webs were 0.4 larger and the females showed greater cooperation in caring for the brood. We believe that A. dubiosus showed a more complex array of social behaviors when compared to A. jabaquara probably due to the greater tolerance of other conspecific individuals. We placed A. jabaquara in the same level of sociality as another non-territorial periodic-social species, A. jucundus. Anelosimus dubiosus would be a non-territorial permanent-social species in the same level of sociality as A. domingo, A. rupununi and A. eximus, but with less complex social behaviors than any of the former species. /// O ciclo de vida e o comportamento social de duas espcies de aranhas, Anelosimus jabaquara e A. dubiosus (familia Theridiidae), que ocorrem em simpatria em uma floresta subtropical hmida no Brasil, foram estudados para fornecer dados comparativos de comportamentos sociais intermedirios neste gnero. Ambas espcies possuam caractersticas de ciclo de vida muito similares, tais como: univoltinismo e razo sexual de subadultos ligeiramente desviada para mais fmeas do que machos. A reproduo em A. jabaquara ocorre no incio do vero (em dezembro) e a prole se desenvolve durante o inverno (de abril a outubro) sob o cuidado das fmeas. Mas os estgios reprodutivos em A. jabaquara e A. dubiosus se encontravam desincronizados em um ms sendo que a reproduo em A. dubiosus se iniciou um ms antes-novembro- em relao  A. jabaquara. Ambas espcies mostraram cooperao na construo e reparo da teia colonial, na captura de presas e no cuidado  prole. Em A. dubiosus haviam 2.6 mais indivduos por colnia, 1.4 mais fmeas do que machos por colnia, as teias eram em mdia 0.4 maiores e as fmeas mostraram maior cooperao no cuidado  prole quando comparada  A. jabaquara. Acreditamos que A. dubiosus tenha mostrado comportamentos sociais mais complexos quando comparada  A. jabaquara, provavelmente devido  maior tolerncia de outros indviduos da mesma espcie. Classificamos a espcie A. jabaquara como tendo um grau de socialidade similar ao de outra espcie no-territorial peridico-social A. jucundus. Anelosimus dubiosus foi classificada como uma espcie no-territorial permanente-social num grau de socialidade similar ao das espcies A. domingo, A. rupununi e A. eximus, mas com um grau de complexidade de comportamento social inferior aos das espcies anteriores. 
3706198|A unique new species of the genus Vaejovis is described: V. cisnerosi from deciduous scrub forest in the Balsas Basin in Michoacan state, Mexico. Morphological characters, including the hemispermatophore of the holotype male, are illustrated. The closest relative of V. cisnerosi within the genus is unknown, but hemispermatophore morphology, tarsal setation, and trichobothrial patterns suggest close ties with the V. eusthenura, V. intrepidus and V. punctipalpi groups.
3705805| Spiders of 15 families, 76 genera, and at least 125 species were collected by pitfall traps in a spruce-budworm infested forest of northern Maine. Species of Lycosidae were numerically dominant and accounted for 56.2 and 54.1% of the total trapped specimens in 1977 and 1978, respectively. For both study years, significantly more (P  0.05) individuals and species of spiders were captured in clearcut strips than in either uncut residual strips or dense stands. Peaks in seasonal activity of spiders generally coincided with the spruce budworm's early and late larval stages; spiders were also abundant and active during budworm oviposition and dispersal of 1st instars. Diversity of spider species was generally greater in dense stands and uncut residual strips than in clearcut strips. Individuals were distributed unevenly among species but more evenly in dense stands and uncut residual strips than in clearcut strips. Coefficients of community (CC) and percentage similarity (PS) values indicated more spider species than individuals were shared in common among forest conditions. Neither age of strip clearcut (1-6 years) nor litter depth had much influence on mean catches and mean numbers of species of spiders per trap per week. 
3705189|Units of predatory behavior, described in four species of Cyrtophora, include resting positions, jerking and tensing of the web, web shaking, prey immobilization, cutting and pulling out, transportation to the hub and manipulation of the prey at the hub. With the exception of web-shaking behavior, all units of behavior are of the "advanced" type that occurs also in spiders of the genera Argiope, Araneus and Eriophora. Four different attack sequences are given to different prey types. Two of these involve immobilization by biting and two immobilization by wrapping. Prey are transported to the hub either on a silk thread or in the chelicerae. The predatory behavior of Cyrtophora differs from that of Argiope and Eriophora in the following respects: (a) the spider does not maintain dragline connection with the hub, (b) immobilization wrapping is generally restricted to beetles, pentatomid bugs, and large insects, (c) prey are never left in the web after immobilization, but always carried immediately to the hub, and (d) "Rundgang" behavior, involving multiple attachments of wrapped prey to the hub, was not observed. I suggest that Cyrtophora has evolved from an Argiope-like araneid in which prey immobilization by wrapping already existed. The modifications of this advanced-type predatory behavior can be related to the specialized web of Cyrtophora.
3705175|Individuals of Schizocosa mccooki (Montgomery) are found in open areas of pinyon-juniper woodland in New Mexico. They co-occur with individuals of Alopecosa kochi (Keyserling) and Lycosa coloradensis Banks. Individuals of S. mccooki overwinter as immatures. They then mature in May, and mating occurs in May and June. During courtship, a male S. mccooki will make a quick jump, assume a position facing the female, and perform a series of palpal movements. The pattern of sound production includes a series of 2-18 bursts of percussion, with each burst consisting of 2-4 individual taps of the palps. The sounds produced from a courtship sequence of two individuals from Saskatchewan, Canada, were very similar to the sounds produced by the individuals from New Mexico.
25434335|This paper describes an easy, cheap, and safe method of capturing and handling the medically important spider Phoneutria for venom extraction. The method does not injure or kill the spider and allows the extraction of pure venom.
41317218|Sabella bavincourti Vaillant 1909 from the Eocene of northern France is a little-known trace fossil subsequently attributed -as Cteniza bavincourti -to the burrowing activities of a trapdoor spider. It is thus an ichnospecies name and not a body fossil. Its interpretation as the activity of a spider is questionable and its original assignment to a worm burrow seems intuitively more likely. Irrespective of the affinities of the producer, the ICZN also covers ichnotaxa such that classifying these structures under a modern genus name creates a homonym. It is here reassigned as the ichnotaxon Oichnus bavincourti comb. nov. Another problematic name is Theridium columbianum (Scudder 1878) from the Eocene of Canada and the USA, which is based on fossilized spider egg sacs. Under current ICZN rules fossil cocoons fall under the definition of "work of an animal". We propose reassigning them here to Araneaovoidus igen, nov., as Araneaovoidus columbiae (Scudder 1878) comb, nov.; but stress that this is now a trace fossil name. Similar problems underlie fossilized galls attributed (probably correctly) to mites, but assigned to living eriophyid mite genera. Fossil galls are the preserved pathological reactions of plant tissue and are also not ichnotaxa sensu Bertling et al. (2006). We propose that these mite names lie outside the bounds of zoological nomenclature. Within the broader context of arachnid-related trace fossils we briefly review the literature on fossil spider webs, as well as putative arachnid trackways such as Paleohelcura Gilmore 1926 and Octopodichnus Gilmore 1927.
3705047|Diguetia canities (and probably other Diguetidae species also) is mainly characterized by the massive development of the poison glands, a double rostral organ, a large U-shaped coxal labyrinth, a deep prosomatic pigmentation, a group III epigastric glands, four kinds of silk glands and a new opisthosomatic structure: the supra-anal organ. These character states support Gertsch's (1958) idea linking the family with Plectreuridae between the Dysderoidea and Scytodoidea.
3704974|The external morphology and life history of Microbisium confusum Hoff completes the description of this species which was described by Hoff (1946) on the basis of 127 "adult" individuals. All instars are illustrated and described with special reference to chaetotaxy. Males, not collected in the quantitative life history study, were obtained from several localities. The life history was based on quantitative sampling in a northern New York beech-maple woodlot over 2 years. Protonymphs and females were collected throughout the winter months under snow cover. Deutonymphs probably overwintered but were collected less frequently. There was no evidence that more than one generation was produced each year; however, females might reproduce in successive years.
41317224|The global demand for different land-use practice commodities in the Amazonia is growing, and this region is increasingly affected by the impacts of land management. The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of land-use intensification on soil spider assemblages from six different land-use systems in Colombia and Brazil. The systems were fallows after crops and pastures, forest, crops, pastures and plantations. Spider species richness and density decreased with increasing farming management intensity. A principal component analysis (PCA) showed forests and fallows were separated from systems with stronger anthropogenic soil disturbance. The relationships of ten spider guilds differed significantly between land-uses, suggesting that they can be a reliable parameter for studies of ecological indicators.
4489042|Spiders of the species Lycosa tarentula (Linnaeus 1758) (Araneae, Lycosidae) use a vector navigation system while homing under natural conditions. Under laboratory conditions, in the absence of information relative to the sun's position or any pattern of polarized light, L. tarentula uses a path integration system which consists of turning at a fixed angle similar to one that could carry it to its burrow. In the absence of light, the angle is random. In this study we ask whether the spiders acquire the information about the angle turned during the outward journey through the anterior lateral eyes (ALEs), whose visual fields are directed towards the ground. To answer this question, two groups of animals were studied: one group with only the ALEs covered and another group with all eyes except ALEs covered. Our results show that ALE information alone is adequate to obtain the angle at which the animal should turn when homing.
3705430|The daily locomotor activity patterns of spiders of three large species of the genus Cupiennius (Ctenidae) were measured in an artificial 12:12 light:dark cycle. Adult males (N = 10) and females (N = 10) of each species of these nocturnal Central American wandering spiders were compared. On average, males were 3.5 (C. coccineus and C. getazi) to 12.7 (C. salei) times more active than females. Hence, males are the truly wandering spiders. We suggest that this is due to sexually motivated searching behavior of the males. Of the two sympatric species, the males and the females of C. coccineus were on average 3.1 times more active than those of C. getazi. In addition C. coccineus exhibited a relative minimum in its locomotor activity when C. getazi showed its absolute maximum. This difference in activity pattern may contribute to the reproductive isolation of these two sympatric species.
3705945|Variation in species richness at the landscape scale is an important consideration in conservation planning and natural resource management. To assess the ability of rapid inventory techniques to estimate local species richness, three collectors sampled the spider fauna of a "wilderness" cove forest in the southern Appalachians for 133 person-hours during September and early October 1991 using four methods: aerial hand collecting, ground hand collecting, beating, and leaf litter extraction. Eighty-nine species in 64 genera and 19 families were found. To these data we applied various statistical techniques (lognormal, Poisson lognormal, Chao 1, Chao 2, jackknife, and species accumulation curve) to estimate the number of species present as adults at this site. Estimates clustered between roughly 100-130 species with an outlier (Poisson lognormal) at 182 species. We compare these estimates to those from Bolivian tropical forest sites sampled in much the same way but less intensively. We discuss the biases and errors such estimates may entail and their utility for inventory design. We also assess the effects of method, time of day and collector on the number of adults, number of species and taxonomic composition of the samples and discuss the nature and importance of such effects. Method, collector and method-time of day interaction significantly affected the numbers of adults and species per sample; and each of the four methods collected clearly different sets of species. Finally, we present recommendations to guide future research on the estimation of spider species richness.
40233819|Environments where prey availability is scarce or highly variable have been reported as potential settings for the occurrence of paternal investment and sex-role reversal (choosy males and competitive, courting females). Allocosa brasiliensis (Petrunkevitch 1910) and Allocosa alticeps (Mello-Leito 1944) are two sand-dwelling wolf spiders that construct burrows along the Uruguayan coastline. Both species present a reversal in typical sex roles and size dimorphism. In the present study, we investigated foraging behavior and population density of both species by performing monthly samplings at the field during one year. Both Allocosa are general and highly opportunistic predators, varying their diet according to prey availability. The three most represented common prey belonged to Araneae, Diptera, and Hymenoptera (Formicidae). There were high levels of cannibalism in A. brasiliensis and, furthermore, males were observed frequently preying on conspecific adult females. Our discussion of the results based on hypotheses about food limitation and sex-role reversal contributes to our understanding of Allocosa species and establishes them as models for future evolutionary, behavioral, and ecological studies.
3705902|Juvenile individuals of the spider species, Philoponella republicana, were common in the webs of the social spider, Anelosimus eximius, and the solitary spider, Architis sp., in the forest habitats of the SE Peru. The abundance, size and location of P. republicana individuals were surveyed in each host web. Although the host webs were similar in size and conformation, more P. republicana individuals were found in the social spider webs than in the solitary host webs. Likewise, the number of P. republicana in the social spider webs was correlated with host web size. The mean size of prey captured by P. republicana was 2.1 mm, which was significantly smaller than the prey taken by the social spider, and, in feeding trials, Architis sp. individuals reacted only infrequently to prey of that size. This separation in the size of prey taken caused us to conclude that P. republicana acted as a commensal for the most part; however, they were observed to prey on the social spiders occasionally. Small P. republicana were the most common in both host webs and tended to be high in the barrier webbing. The largest individuals in the social host webs were located under the sheet area, and these individuals were observed to feed more frequently than spiders in other size classes and in other areas of the host webs. We conclude that juvenile P. republicana are commensals in both host webs but that they benefit more from the greater amount of activity in webs of the social spiders.
23070797|Although relatively rare among harvestmen in the superfamily Gonyleptoidea, paternal care has been observed in the families Manaosbiidae and Gonyleptidae, but not previously in the Cosmetidae. In this study, we describe multiple observations of egg guarding by adult males of an undescribed species of cosmetid harvestman from Volcn Cacao, Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. Observations were made from 2628 July 2010, during the wet season. In this species, males only guard eggs after dusk, leaving eggs unattended during the day. Based upon differences in color and size, males guarded eggs through several stages of development. When guarding, males contacted the first two pairs of legs with the eggs. Oviposition sites consisted of the undersides of leaves of small plants, with eggs closely packed together in a single layer covered by abundant, transparent mucus. The largest, darkest eggs were located near the distal tip of the leaf.
3705905| The predatory behavior of Metepeira seditiosa on two prey organisms, Musca sp. and Acromyrmex sp., was compared under experimental conditions. Frequency diagrams for various behaviors were constructed, and the stereotypy and relationship among the units in the sucession were established. Discrimination between the prey organisms occurred in the detection and immobilization phases. Metepeira seditiosa has a vast repertory of behavior. The tactics used for capturing Musca sp. and Acromyrmex sp. were 100% successful. /// Se describieron y analizaron las secuencias de unidades de comportamiento de captura de Metepeira seditiosa frente a dos presas (Musca sp. y Acromyrmex sp.) en condiciones experimentales. Se realizaron diagramas de frecuencias, establecindose las relaciones entre unidades y la presencia de estereotipia en las sucesiones. Se comprob la discriminacin entre las presas mediante la comparacin de las Fases de Deteccin e Inmovilizacin. Metepeira seditiosa posee una amplia gama de unidades de comportamiento con las cuales selecciona la tctica depredadora adecuada ante Musca sp. y Acromyrmex sp., obteniendo un 100% de xito en las capturas. 
3705339| Four female D. bigbendensis gave birth in the laboratory. One parturition was normal and some of the young were reared to maturity, whereas the other three parturitions were abnormal and resulted in significant cannibalism of the newborn by their mothers. In the normal parturition 37 young were born during about 30 hours. The young emerged tail-first and upside-down, and were free of any "birth membranes." It is hypothesized that the tail-first emrgence of the young is directly related to the katoikogenic type of embryonic development (in embryonic diverticula) that these scorpions undergo. The average birth lasted 6.9  4.0 minutes, and the average interval between consecutive births was 44.4  30.8 minutes. The relatively large standard deviation is due to the emergence of the young mostly in pairs separated by considerably longer intervals between pairs. It is hypothesized that the paired births are related to the bilateral symmetry of the female reproductive system. 
41758959|A prior study of molecular phylogenetic relationships in southern Appalachian Hypochilus taxa revealed unusually high intraspecific mitochondrial sequence divergences, but was limited by small intraspecific sample sizes. A subsequent in-depth population genetic study focused on a single species (H. thorelli Marx 1888), revealing genetic patterns consistent with extremely limited female-based gene flow among rock-outcrop limited populations. Here we extend the study of mitochondrial population genetic structuring to four remaining Appalachian Hypochilus species. Genetic inferences are based on a sample of COI mitochondrial sequences generated for over 250 specimens from 85 sampled locations. This geographic sample comprehensively covers the geographic distributions of all described taxa. Phylogenetic, network-based, and genealogical sorting index analyses reveal ubiquitous genetic structuring in all Hypochilus taxa. A majority of sampled locations possess limited genetic variation, with site-specific haplotypes forming genealogically exclusive "microclades", consistent with limited female-based gene flow at the spatial scales sampled. At deeper phylogenetic levels, four of five described species are recovered as monophyletic on mitochondrial gene trees. Hypochilus pococki Platnick 1987 is recovered as paraphyletic, and is fragmented into five genetically divergent, allopatric phylogroups. These phylogroups, and multiple clades within one of the H. pococki phylogroups, are also recovered as distinct clusters in a generalized mixed Yule-coalescent (GMYC) analysis, suggesting the possibility of multiple cryptic species in the Appalachian fauna. However, a qualitative survey of male palpal variation fails to reveal morphological differences that distinguish these highly divergent genetic lineages. We suggest that a nuclear gene tree perspective is ultimately needed to resolve this contrast.
3705479| The ultrastructure of cribellum silk and associated fibers is described for nine species in eight families, and data from studies of 22 other species are summarized. Possible synapomorphies for filistatids (flattened cribellum fibers), for all cribellates other than hypochilids + filistatids (nodules on cribellum fibers), for deinopids + uloborids + dictynids, and for uloborids + dictynids (loss of reserve warp fibers) are described. Filistatid silk is distinctive and especially complex, and the spatial arrangement of different components is described for the first time. /// Se describe la ultraestructura de la seda del cribelo y las fibras asociadas con ella de nueve especies en ocho familias, y se resumen adems los datos de 22 otras especies. Se destacan posibles sinapomorfias para filistatidos, para todos los cribelados menos hypochilidos y filistatidos, para dinopidos + uloboridos + dictynidos, y para uloboridos + dictynidos. La seda de los filistatidos es especialmente distinctiva, y la ubicacin espacial de los diferentes componentes de ella se describe por primera vez. 
3706134|Patterns of growth, phenology and reproduction were studied in a field population of the wolf spider Pirata piraticus from November 1997 until October 1998 and in June 1999 to unravel the intrapopulation variation and co-variation of these traits. Individuals of P. piraticus overwinter as juveniles of different instars while adults were found from the end of April until September. Strong year to year variation in the age and size of overwintering juveniles was present, resulting in a corresponding difference in adult size in the subsequent breeding season. The main period of reproduction occurred from May until August with larger individuals breeding earlier in the season. The size at which adults breed was also significantly different in the successive years. Clutch mass (cocoon mass), clutch volume and fecundity are dependent on the size of the female according to a weakly negative allometric relationship. The differences in those reproductive traits between the succesive years are therefore proportionate to the differences in female size. This was in clear contrast to egg size, a life history trait that shows much less variation and appears to be independent of female size. Therefore, egg size was not significantly different between spring 1998 and spring 1999. There is, however, some variation in fecundity due to egg size and number independent of female size. When corrected for female size, females with larger eggs produce relatively fewer eggs indicating a trade-off between these two reproductive characters.
23070804|The genus Plesiophrictus is diagnosed and redescribed based on type material and additional specimens. The type species P. millardi (Pocock 1899) is redescribed. The genus Heterophrictus is revalidated, with H. milleti as type species. Heterophrictus differs from Plesiophrictus by the absence of serrula on maxillae and by having a rastellum on the chelicerae and stiff, spike-shaped setae on the prolateral coxae I. The significance of characters used in the taxonomy of both genera is discussed.
3706186|Many predators exploit the chemical signatures of prey when foraging. We present a comparative study designed to test if the foraging behavior of Phidippus audax (Hentz 1845) is manipulated by substrate-borne chemicals left by prey. Our findings suggest that foraging P. audax do not use chemical cues left by prey, while the wolf spider Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844) in the same experimental setup does respond to chemical cues. However, further examination into the role of chemical cues on prey detection in salticids is required.
3706196|Thirty-one species of Calymmaria are described or redescribed and illustrated. Twenty-two species are described as new: Calymmaria alleni, C. bifurcata, C. carmel, C. farallon, C. gertschi, C. humboldt, C. iviei, C. minuta, C. monterey, C. orick, C. rosario, C. rothi, C. scotia, C. sequoia, C. sierra, C. similaria, C. siskiyou, C. sueni, C. tecate, C. tubera, C. virginica and C. yolandae. A key to all thirty-one species is provided. Calymmaria quadrata (Exline 1938) is synonymized with C. emertoni (Simon 1897), and C. cavicola (Banks 1896) and C. montavencis (Bishop & Crosby 1926) are synonymized with C. persica (Hentz 1847). Tegenaria modesta Banks 1898 and the replacement name T. modestella Roewer 1944 are treated as nomina dubia. The male palpus of C. lora (Chamberlin & Ivie 1942) and C. emertoni (Simon) are illustrated for the first time along with the internal structure of the female epigynum of C. californica (Banks 1896) and C. shastae (Chamberlin & Ivie 1937). Information is provided on habitat and web structure in the genus. A cladogram of the species of Calymmaria is presented based on a cladistic analysis of characters. The presence of a dorsal patellar fracture line is hypothesized to be an apomorphic character state that relates Calymmaria to five other agelenoid genera: Willisus, Blabomma, Yorima, Cybaeota, and Cybaeina.
25654001|Our focus was to design harvestmen-specific PCR primers to target both introns and exons of the nuclear protein-coding gene Elongation Factor -1 alpha (EF-1). We tested this primer set on ten genera representing all primary lineages of Opiliones, with sets of close phylogenetic relatives (i.e., sets of several congeners) included to specifically assess utility at shallow phylogenetic levels. Our research also included the collection of parallel mitochondrial protein-coding DNA sequence datasets for the congeneric sets to compare relative rates of evolution and gene tree congruence for EF-1 versus mitochondrial data. The harvestmen primers resulted in successful amplification for nine of ten tested genera. Exon sequences for these nine genera appear orthologous to previously-reported EF-1 Opiliones sequences, which were generated using RT-PCR methods. Newly-generated exon sequences are interrupted by three separate spliceosomal introns; two introns are restricted to one or two genera, but a third intron is conserved in position across all surveyed genera. Phylogenetic analyses of EF-1 nucleotide data for congeneric sets result in gene trees that are generally congruent with mitochondrial gene trees, with EF-1 phylogenetic signal coming from both intron and exon sites, and resolving apparently recent divergences (e.g., as recent as one million years ago). Overall, the combination of gene orthology, conserved intron position, and gene tree congruence at shallow levels suggest that this gene region will prove generally useful for both phylogeographic and species-level phylogenetic analyses in Opiliones, complementing already-documented utility at higher taxonomic levels.
3705833|Chromosomes of Caddo agilis (Caddidae) and fifteen species of Phalangiidae were investigated. In three species, Nelima satoi, N. similis, and Eumesosoma roeweri, presence of XY-XX (male heterogametic) sex chromosome system was newly ascertained. On the other hand, ZW-ZZ (female heterogametic) sex chromosome system was suggested to be present in Mitopus morio. Effeminate (2n = 20) and normal (2n = 18) males of Protolophus tuberculatus were found to differ in chromosome number. A survey of known records of chromosome numbers in Caddidae and Phalangiidae revealed a general trend that the number is greater in both Caddidae (2n = 30) and Phalangiinae (2n = 20-36), fewer in Gagrellinae (2n = 10-22), and intermediate in Leiobuninae (2n = 16-26). Evolutionary trends are briefly discussed and compared with those in other arachnids.
4129892|Allometric scaling is a powerful approach for studying the relationship between size, shape and function. We studied allometric slopes in Linyphia triangulahs, measuring two male and one female genital characters and several male and female non-genital characters including male chelicerae that are used for fighting. As predicted from theory, genitalia had the lowest allometric values, fighting structures the highest.
41758975|Spelaeobochica iuiu sp. n. is described from Lapa do Baixo limestone cave in the municipality of Iuiu (Bahia, Brazil). It is easily distinguished from the two other species of the genus, S. allodentatus Mahnert 2001 and S. muchmorei Andrade & Mahnert 2003, by its pedipalpal measurements and proportions, but particularly by the presence of tooth-like protuberances on the pedipalpal segments. It is considered a troglobitic species.
40233850|Whip spiders (Arachnida, Amblypygi) are little-studied arachnids with enlarged spiny pedipalps and elongated "antenniform" forelegs. These antenniform legs contain at least seven giant sensory neurons with no known behavioral function. Here we use high-speed cinematography to describe the prey capture behavior of the whip spider Phrynus marginemaculatus C.L. Koch 1840, in order to examine how these giant neurons might be involved. When presented with a prey item (a cricket), a whip spider first accurately aims one of its antenniform legs in the prey's direction. Next, the whip spider orients its body to the prey item and approaches, placing one antenniform leg tip on either side of the prey. The whip spider may remain relatively still in this position for some time, before opening its pedipalps in preparation for a strike and then rapidly swinging its antenniform legs away from the prey item and striking at it with its pedipalps. In common with previous studies, our results show that giant neuron activity is not necessary to trigger any of the stages of normal prey capture behavior, but they also suggest that these neurons could still provide information important in this context.
40233823|We sampled 505 specimens of 7 arachnid orders (313 Araneae, 65 Opiliones, 111 Pseudoscorpiones, 10 Ricinulei, 3 Schizomida, 1 Thelyphonida, 2 Scorpiones) in natural forest and agroforestry sites in central Amazonia to analyze fresh and dry mass to body length relations. The low number of schizomids, scorpions, and thelyphonids did not allow statistical analyses, but the raw data are given, because these represent the first data published for these groups from Amazonia. For all other orders general mass-length relationships for ecological studies were determined. Non-linear regressions with a power model proved to describe the relations very well and are highly significant for all taxa and groups analyzed. The resulting equations can thus be used to estimate biomass of large samples of arachnids from Amazonia based on individual body length measurements. Linear regressions of mass to length with log-transformed data also described the relation adequately, but using the resulting equations to estimate biomass of the whole spider sample caused a higher bias. This is because small biases of mass-length relation of the largest spider individuals are exponentiated. However, linear regressions behaved better for spiders smaller than 8 mm. The ratio of dry to fresh mass was around 0.3 for spiders; 0.4 for pseudoscorpions, schizomids, and thelyphonids; 0.44 for opilionids; and 0.53 for Ricinulei. A second sample of 99 spiders from a South Brazilian Atlantic Forest revealed similar mass-length relations, but a different dry to fresh mass ratio. For spiders, the usefulness of general equations to determine the biomass of bulk samples from ecological studies with certain precision requirements was further explored by using the equations from the two datasets crosswise, regarding the resulting bias and by applying equations to a further dataset from an ecological investigation. In conclusion and accordance to former studies, general equations derived from mass-length regressions of bulk samples including many specimens of different families and guilds are appropriate for an estimation of the biomass of bulk samples from ecological studies. Equations from mass-length regressions from the literature, resulting from spider samples in temperate regions, should not be used to estimate biomass of samples from neotropical spider assemblages, especially when absolute biomass is of interest and when precision is required. They underestimate biomass of tropical assemblages due to a strong bias in mass-length relation of tropical spiders larger than 10 mm. Depending on the distribution of large spiders in samples, considerable biases in single samples could affect ecological analyses. /// Analisamos as relaes entre comprimento corporal e massa fresca e seca de 505 espcimes de sete ordens de aracnideos (313 Araneae, 65 Opiliones, 111 Pseudoscorpiones, 10 Ricinulei, 3 Schizomida, 1 Thelyphonida, 2 Scorpiones) coletados em florestas e agroflorestas na Amaznia Central. Devido ao nmero baixo de Schizomida, Scorpiones e Thelyphonida nenhuma anlise estatstica foi possvel e os dados brutos so apresentados a serem os primeiros dados publicados destes grupos para a Amaznia. Para as outras ordens anlises de regresso foram feitas. Regresses nolineares de modelo potencial demonstraram excelente descrio para as relaes, sendo altamente significativas para os txons e grupos analisados. Os coeficientes obtidos nestas regresses podero servir de base para o clculo de biomassa em amostras da Regio Amaznica que contenham grande nmero de aracndeos, utilizando-se como medida somente o comprimento total de cada indivduo. Utilizando-se dados logartmicamente transformados, regresses lineares de massacomprimento tambm descreveram adequadamente a relao. Todavia a utilizao destes coeficientes, para estimar exclusivamente a biomassa da amostra total de aranhas, apresentou resultados tendenciosos em funo do efeito forte da relao exponencial a desvios pequenos em aranhas de grande porte. Regresses lineares apresentaram um comportamento estatstico mais favorvel apenas para aranhas com menos de 8 mm de comprimento corporal. A relao obtida para massa seca em relao  massa fresca foi de cerca de 0.3 para aranhas, cerca de 0.4 para Pseudoscorpiones, Schizomida e Thelyphonida, 0.44 para Opiliones e 0.53 para Ricinulei. Uma segunda amostragem de 99 aranhas na regio meridional da Mata Atlntica brasileira revelou relaes de massa-comprimento similares, porm, com uma relao diferenciada de massa seca  massa fresca. Para a ordem de aranhas a utilidade de equaes gerais para a determinao da biomassa de amostras ecolgicas com devida preciso foi analisada aplicando coeficientes resultando de amostragens de outras regies. Conclumos que coeficientes de regresses de massa-comprimento so apropriados para uso em relao  assemblia inteira de aracndeos, desde que as amostras contenham espcimes de vrias famlias e guildas diferentes. Os coeficientes obtidos na regresso da grande amostragem da Regio Amaznica podem ser usadas para a assemblias de aranhas da Mata Atlntica, porm no e aconselhvel uso recproco, mais especificamente para estimativas de massa seca. A utilizao de coeficientes de regresses de massa-comprimento disponveis atualmente na literatura, resultante de amostragens em regies temperadas, deveria ser evitada para a estimativa de biomassa em amostras de assemblias de aranhas neotropicais. Estes coeficientes subestimam a biomassa de assemblias tropicais devido a uma grande distoro na relao entre massa e comprimento corporal em aranhas maiores do que 10 mm. Desta maneira anlises ecolgicas podem ser altamente influenciadas pela distribuio de grandes aranhas entre as amostras individuais com distoro dos resultados.
3706242|Jumping spiders (Salticidae) are well known for their complex visual hunting behavior, but this is the first comparative study investigating their ability to catch prey in the absence of visual cues. When tested with vision occluded inside tubes, where spiders and prey (house flies, Musca domestica, and fruit flies, Drosophila spp.) could not easily evade each other, each of 42 salticid species tested caught prey in at least one of five different procedures used. Some salticids caught flies less frequently or were less aggressive when tested in petri dishes, where spiders and flies could easily evade each other. For both types of arena and prey, there were significant species differences in both success at prey-capture and tendency to respond aggressively when first contacted by flies. Additionally, there was significant positive correlation between success at catching prey and tendency to act aggressively when first contacted. Salticids resembled short-sighted spiders from other families by only attempting to catch flies when physically contacted, and by rapidly leaning forward ('lunging') to catch prey rather than leaping as they do when visual cues are available. We discuss circumstances in nature when an ability to catch prey in the absence of visual cues might be used by salticids.
3705776|The reproductive success of a mating pair of Ceropelma longisternalis is reported. Courtship and mating behaviour are described. The female molted, mated, built a retreat, and made a free egg sac under laboratory conditions. For 49 days she remained in the retreat, until the juveniles emerged. Courtship, mating and egg production are discussed and compared with data from other Mygalomorphae.
3705977| A new parthenogenetic species of scorpion, Ananteris coineaui Loureno, is reported from French Guyana. Parthenogenesis is based on the production of an all-female brood (thelytoky) by a wild virgin female. Conversely, the first probable case of male parthenogenesis (arrehnotoky) in scorpions is reported based on the production of two successive all-male broods by a wild caught virgin female of Tityus metuendus Pocock from Peru. Both species were found in isolated palm trees within the rain forest, conforming with the insular theory of parthenogenesis. 
3705054|The new genus Lubinella from New Guinea is described and illustrated and its relationship discussed.
3706268| It is imperative to obtain a representative sample of each population for population genetics studies. Furthermore, it must still be possible to isolate DNA from these organisms. We adapted the pitfall technique for that purpose after encountering severe problems collecting sufficiently large numbers of live Coelotes terrestris (Wider 1834) (Amaurobiidae) in the field. Although this species is commonly caught in pitfalls, collecting them by hand proved to be much more laborious than expected. Initially, we tested two types of live-traps (one cup and one funnel trap) which had been successfully used to catch carabid beetles. Both types did not yield enough captures of C. terrestris to get a representative sample of the studied populations. Therefore, we tested three different killing/preservative solutions (70% ethanol, acetic acid + TE buffer and 4% formaldehyde) for possible use in pitfall traps. Ethanol was the best preservative solution based on the amount of DNA that could be isolated after treatment and on the ability to generate the same RAPD profile as a reference DNA sample preserved at-20 C. To test ethanol as a preservative solution in the field, we varied its concentration and used it in combination with traps with or without funnels. We conclude that it is best to use a funnel trap with 96% ethanol. We further recommend that for every new species to be sampled in this way an explorative investigation should be carried out determining where, when, and how many traps should be placed (this reduces the expense of the method). Furthermore, the effects of different preservative solutions on the DNA of an organism of interest should be tested. The resolution of the molecular analysis will determine if the DNA should be of high-molecular-weight or if some degree of denaturation is allowed. 
3705832|Two species of New World theraphosid; Theraphosa leblondi from French Guiana, and Megaphobema sp. from Ecuador incorporate abdominal setae into silk constructs. Theraphosa incorporates setae into the egg sacs and the silk mats on which they molt. Megaphobema sp. includes them in the egg sacs only. The setae used in the egg sacs by both these spiders are from the lateral region of the abdomens, the setae which Theraphosa uses in the silk mat are from the lateral and posterior regions. All abdominal regions tested on Theraphosa had urticating hairs present. To test the possible benefits of this behavior, the egg sacs and silk mats were tested for urticarial effect. The egg sacs failed to elicit any urticarial response in either humans or two species of mouse (Mus musculus and Peromyscus sp.). Egg sac material with or without setae was found to be an effective barrier to the larvae of the fly Megaselia scalaris. The silk mats of T. leblondi were found to be more effective at stopping the movement of M. scalaris larvae than theraphosid silk which lacked them.
4129826| We assessed the effects of environmental factors on spider communities in screes (sloping mass of coarse rock fragments) of the Czech Republic, based on catches from 325 pitfall traps, exposed for 177-670 days, from 1984-2000. Bootstrap resampling was applied to test for fuzziness of the partitions in cluster analysis of the samples. Two distinct spider communities were identified. The first one was confined to sites where ice is formed and persists until late summer or over the whole year. This community consists of numerous relict spiders, such as Bathyphantes simillimus buchari Rika 1988, Diplocentria bidentata (Emerton 1882) and Lepthyphantes tripartitus Miller & Svato 1978, possibly persisting in these cold screes from the early postglacial period. The other community included all other sites, irrespective of their environmental characteristics. Monte Carlo simulations were used to test the significance of environmental factors and their interactions on the studied communities. Ice formation near the traps and position of the traps within individual screes were the most significant factors, followed by the depth of the traps within the scree, diameter of stones forming the scree, and altitude. A marginally significant effect was found for organic content in the scree matter, whereas presence of trees and phytogeographical districts appeared non-significant. Our analyses support the view that spiders inhabiting cold screes in Central Europe belong to a unique relict community of species requiring cold and stable microclimate. 
3705882|The golden silk spider, Nephila clavipes (L.), is known to live both solitarily and in single-species aggregations. In Veracruz, Mexico, N. clavipes is also found in association with the colonial orbweaver Metepeira incrassata F.O. Pickard-Cambridge (Araneae: Araneidae). This study compared the frequency of predation attempts on solitary, intraspecifically aggregated and colony associated N. clavipes. Solitary N. clavipes suffered greater relative predation than those in single-species groups or those associated with M. incrassata colonies. We also compared the distance at which the three categories of N. clavipes were able to detect and respond to a simulated predation attempt. Both intraspecifically grouped and colony associated N. clavipes had significantly greater response distances than did solitary individuals, indicating that they could respond to a predation threat sooner. These data support predictions that grouped spiders may benefit from lower predation and/or an early warning system.
3705629|Two new species of the genus Architis are described: A. sinops from a male from Brazil and A. suarez from a male from Colombia. The female of A. vilhena Carico is described for the first time.
3706159|The significance of habitat structure and prey availability in spider biology has been well investigated in a number of communities, but only briefly in forest canopies. This study gathered indirect evidence for the importance of these two factors as determinants of spider abundance and diversity in arboreal communities of western Oregon. Arthropods were collected by harvesting and bagging tips (1 m long) of lower crown branches from red alder (Alnus rubra), western redcedar (Thuja plicata), western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), noble fir (Abies procera) and Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii). Several characteristics of arthropod habitats were measured: tree diameter at breast height, maximum horizontal and vertical branch spread, number of branching angles and leaves, and total biomass of twigs and foliage. The highest numbers of spiders per branch were collected from structurally more complex tree species including Douglas-fir and noble fir. These tree species also had the highest spider species richness. The greatest similarity in spider community structure was found among tree species with shared branch characteristics such as needles. The biomass of foliage and prey availability were the best predictors of spider abundance on individual tree species. Biomass of twigs alone accounted for almost 70% and 60% of the variation in total spider abundance and species richness, respectively, across a wide range of arboreal habitats. Prey availability accounted for less of the variation. Selected habitat variables also predicted the abundance of several prey groups including Aphidoidea, Psocoptera, Diptera and Collembola. Our results suggest that habitat structure and prey availability in combination may play significant roles in structuring the spider community of western Oregon forest canopies.
3706124|The adhesive droplets in the orb webs of araneoid spiders contain, among other constituents, an aqueous solution of organic low-molecular-weight compounds. The chemical composition of this solution has been investigated for pooled web collections from several species, but little is known about how the composition might vary among individuals or among environments. To begin addressing these questions, we analyzed serial collections of orb webs spun by individual juvenile Nephila clavipes from three different populations held first under field conditions and then under laboratory conditions. Our results indicate that the composition of the organic low-molecular-weight solution is not fixed. We found significant differences in the droplet composition among individuals, among populations, and with the transfer of spiders to laboratory conditions. The possible origins and consequences of these differences are discussed.
24365295|This study reports on the pseudoscorpion fauna of the subterranean ecosystems of northern Arizona, U.S.A. Our work resulted in the descriptions of two new species, Hesperochernes bradybaughi sp. nov. and Tuberochernes cohni sp. nov. (Chernetidae) and the range expansion of one species, Larca cavicola (Muchmore 1981) (Larcidae). All of these species were cave-adapted and found within caves on Grand Canyon-Parashant National Monument in northwestern Arizona. Based upon this work, the genus Archeolarca Hoff and Clawson is newly synonymized with Larca Chamberlin, and the following species are transferred from Archeolarca to Larca, forming the new combinations L. aalbui (Muchmore 1984), L. cavicola (Muchmore 1981), L. guadalupensis (Muchmore 1981) and L. welbourni (Muchmore 1981). Despite intensive sampling on the monument, the two new species were detected in only one cave. This cave supports the greatest diversity of troglomorphic arthropod species on the monumentall of which are short-range endemics occurring in only one cave. Maintaining the management recommendations provided by Peck and Wynne (2013) for this cave should aid in the long-term persistence of these new pseudoscorpion species, as well as the other troglomorphic arthropods.
4129789|The effects of exposure to a single sublethal dose of the pesticide malathion on the courtship and mating behavior of the lycosid, Rabidosa rabida (Walckenaer 1837) is explored. Animals were tested in combinations where one or both sexes were exposed to the insecticide. The data indicate that while there was no effect on the patterning of courtship behavior, control males initiated courtship more rapidly than dosed animals. Mating behavior was severely disrupted and resulted in most dosed males being killed by females without achieving copulation.
41317212|Orb spiders are commonly used to study many ecological and behavioral questions, due in part to the ease of working with their webs. The frequency distributions of prey captured by spiders are often compared among species or individuals to search for evidence of competition, effects of experimental manipulations, etc. In most instances, smaller insects are extremely common compared to larger prey, presenting a critical flaw in how such comparisons are analyzed because natural selection acts upon web evolution through the biomass, rather than total number, of prey captured. The "rare, large prey" hypothesis, developed for Zygiella x-notata (Clerk 1757), suggests that orb spiders derive the bulk of their energy not from common prey, but rather from a small subset of the largest possible insects. If correct, then orb webs should be designed to facilitate the capture of these insects, which are essential for spider fitness, even though they rarely fly into webs. Here, I test the generality of the "rare, large prey" hypothesis by comparing the frequency and biomass of large prey in 38 studies of the diets of 31 species of orb spiders in four different families. I define large prey as insects at least 66% as long as the spiders capturing them. The 38 studies included both large and small species of spiders, living in both tropical and temperate habitats. Large insects accounted for only 17% of the total number of prey captured by spiders, but contributed 85% of the total consumable biomass. The "rare, large prey" hypothesis thus can apparently be generalized across orb spiders. Future experiments need to account for the disproportionate influence of these large insects on spider fitness and on how to effectively measure these rare events. More importantly, the "rare, large prey" hypothesis provides a new framework in which to better understand variation in the web spinning behaviors of spiders.
3705006|This 2-year study of solpugids collected at 2-week intervals from Hurley and Lordsburg, New Mexico comparing 12 can traps with 40 trap boards and 40 pieces of natural ground-surface debris demonstrates that can traps are much more reliable in estimating both the mean number of individuals and the number of species in a given area than either of the other two methods tested. Additional methods studies are needed for species not consistently susceptible to can trap collections, and for attaining greater reliability for data on the relative densities of solpugid species.
24717329|Constructing webs for survival is rare in wolf spiders. However, some species, postulated as basal in the family, live in funnel-webs. Aglaoctenus lagotis (Holmberg 1876), a South American lycosid, lives permanently in webs. It is virtually unknown how web construction occurs for this species and the few other lycosid weavers. Also, costs associated with construction have not been studied, although funnels are suggested to be particularly costly webs. This study describes the funnel-web construction behavior of A. lagotis (Lycosidae: Sosippinae) and measures its costs in subadult and adult individuals. We recorded web construction, effects of sealing spinnerets in weaving activity, and immune costs of weaving (measuring melanization of an implant) in individuals allowed to weave and prevented from weaving. Construction consisted of three alternating behaviors: deposition of thick threads with a radial orientation and prolonged attachments (mainly involving the anterior spinnerets); deposition of swaths of fine threads without consistent orientation and with short attachments (mainly involving the posterior spinnerets); and motionlessness. No sticky threads are present in the web. The thick threads have a supporting function and the fine threads have a filling function. Subadults and males allowed to weave reduced their immune response compared with those prevented from weaving; no such relationship was observed for females. Males presented the weakest immune response, followed by subadults and females. The web construction process showed greater similarity with agelenid spiders than with the only other lycosid studied, Sosippus janus Brady 1972, and appears to be a costly activity, especially for males.
3705990| Arachnid communities of alpine grassland, of screes and woodlands near the timberline and of the nival zone have been compared along a transect from the northern to the southern border of the Dolomites. The region is zoogeographically interesting because of differences of the ice cover during glaciation, which was less severe in the southern area. Along the whole transect spider communities in grasslands and at the timberline zone show approximately the same composition. Endemic species, e.g, Harpactea grisea (Canestrini 1868), Amaurobius ruffoi Thaler 1990, Coelotes mediocris Kulczynski 1887, Cybaeus intermedius Maurer 1992 and Eudasylobus ligusticus Roewer 1923 occur mostly on the southernmost station, which remained free of ice. Re-immigrants over short distance are scarce, e.g., Coelotes mediocris at Passo Rolle and Coelotes solitarius L. Koch 1868 in the Puez area. Endemic species were not found in the alpine grassland of the northern Dolomites, which suggests severe impact of glacial events on the local fauna. Central alpine species, i.e., Erigonella subelevata (L. Koch 1869), Metopobactrus nadigi Thaler 1976, Meioneta orites (Thorell 1875), Pardosa blanda (C.L. Koch 1833) and Pardosa mixta (Kulczynski 1887) are still present at the southernmost boundary of the Alps. Nunataks in the northern and central area of the Dolomites allowed speciation effects within the nival fauna: Lepthyphantes brunneri Thaler 1984, Lepthyphantes merretti Millidge 1974, Megabunus armatus (Kulczynski 1887). Further zoogeographically interesting records are Cryphoeca nivalis Schenkel 1919 and Xysticus bonneti Denis 1938. ///  stata studiata la composizione della fauna aracnologica della zona subalpina, alpina e nivale lungo un transetto che parte dalle Dolomti settentrionali (Parco Naturale Puez-Odle) e porta fino al bordo meridionale delle Alpi (Monte Grappa). Il versante meridionale delle Alpi  di grande importanza ai fini di studi zoogeografici, essendo queste regioni in parte rimaste libere dai ghiacciai durante le epoche glaciali. Sul Monte Grappa sono state riscontrate pi specie endemiche p.es. Harpactea grisea (Canestrini 1868), Amaurobius ruffoi Thaler 1990, Coelotes mediocris Kulczynski 1887, Cybaeus intermedius Maurer 1992 e Eudasylobus ligusticus Roewer 1923. Alcune specie reimmigranti a breve distanza hanno riconquistato parti delle Dolomiti raggiungendo regioni pi a nord: Coelotes mediocris Kulczynski 1887  stato catturato anche a Passo Rolle, Coelotes solitarius L. Koch 1868 anche nel Parco Naturale Puez-Odle. Specie endemiche sembrano essere assenti nella prateria alpina delle Dolomiti settentrionali, dimostrando l'effetto distruttivo dei ghiacciai sulla fauna del suolo. In questa zona si possono trovare specie endemiche sulle cime pi alte rimaste libere dai ghiacciai: Lepthyphantes merretti Millidge 1974, Lepthyphantes brunneri Thaler 1984 e Megabunus armatus (Kulczynski 1887). Altre specie rare e di notevole interesse zoogeografico catturate nell'ambito di questo studio sono Cryphoeca nivalis Schenkel 1919 e Xysticus bonneti Denis 1938.  particolarmente sorprendente la presenza sul Monte Grappa di specie tipiche delle Alpi centrali che sembrano spingersi fino al bordo pi meridionale delle Alpi, p.es. Erigonella subelevata (L. Koch 1869), Metopobactrus nadigi Thaler 1976, Meioneta orites (Thorell 1875), Pardosa blanda (C.L. Koch 1833) e Pardosa mixta (Kulczynski 1887). 
3705893|Malformations in the abdominal segmentation patterns were studied in two pseudoscorpion species of the genus Roncus L. Koch, inhabiting Yugoslavia. A total of 36 abnormal examples were found out of 4,825 specimens examined. All anomalous pseudoscorpions were dissected and subjected to the pathomorphological analysis. The frequency of the aberrant specimens was variable, depending on the locality, growth stage, sex, and species. The following malformations were noted: hemimery; partial atrophy (single and multiple); symphysomery (single and multiple); and combinations of different anomalies (combined hemimery and sclerite enlargement; combined hemimery and symphysomery; combined partial atrophy and symphysomery; combined partial atrophy and sclerite enlargement; combined atrophy or hemimery, symphysomery and sclerite enlargement; combined atrophy, symphysomery, helicomery and sclerite enlargement; and combined atrophy, helicomery and sclerite enlargement). Teratological variation of the abdominal sclerites has been confined mostly to adults and, to a lesser degree, to tritonymphs. In addition, some specific features of the relative distribution of various segmental deficiencies are considered. Finally, the probable causes of the genesis and development of segmental anomalies in the pseudoscorpions studied have been also discussed.
3705523|Populations of the facultatively communal species Philoponella oweni (Chamberlin 1924) and Philoponella arizonica (Gertsch 1936) (Uloboridae) occur sympatrically in the Chiricahua mountains of southeastern Arizona. This study compares reproductive biology, structure of communal groups, and feeding rates of the two species, and documents differences in their phenology, webs, web construction sites, egg-cases and spiderlings. I suggest environmental factors that may select for different reproductive strategies in the two species.
4129856|In general, flagella and cilia of eukaryotes show an axoneme composed of a 9 + 2 microtubular pattern. However, the axoneme of spider spermatozoa is characterized by an exceptional 9 + 3 microtubular pattern, which is known as a synapomorphy of the Megoperculata (Amblypygi, Uropygi and Araneae). In contrast to all other observed spiders, the axoneme of the linyphiid spider Linyphia triangularis, was shown to lack the central microtubules thus representing a 9 + 0 axoneme. In the present study, we investigated the spermatozoa from several linyphiid species of different genera in order to show whether this peculiar pattern also occurs in other linyphiid spiders. Interestingly, in all observed species (Neriene clathrata, N. peltata, Linyphia hortensis, Lepthyphantes sp., Oedothorax gibbosus, Gongylidium rufipes and Drapetisca socialis) we found the 9 + 0 microtubular pattern in the axoneme. Since this study, although considering still a very limited number of species, includes species from Linyphiinae (Linyphiini and Micronetini) and Erigoninae it seems likely that this pattern is an autapomorphy of Linyphiidae.
3706195|The withiid genus Parawithius Chamberlin is rediagnosed, based upon a detailed examination of the type species, P. nobilis (With) from Colombia, which is redescribed and illustrated. The subgenus Parawithius (Victorwithius) Feio is returned to full generic level. Cystowithius, a new genus of Withiidae, is described from high elevation localities in central and South America for four species: Cystowithius smithersi new species (type species) from Ecuador, C. ecuadoricus (Beier) new combination, from Ecuador and Peru, C. colombicus new species from Colombia, and C. chamberlini new species from Mexico and Guatemala. Males of Cystowithius are highly unusual due to the presence of sternal invaginations, a feature that has not been previously observed in pseudoscorpions. Populations of Cystowithius smithersi occur within the leaf sheaths of the giant rosette plant Espeletia pycnophylla var. angelensis (Compositae).
3706101|Differences in species richness and species composition of spiders associated with aquatic macrophytes of different structural complexities were examined in the Pantanal floodplain of Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil. The plants studied were Nymphaea amazonum (Nymphaeaceae), Salvinia auriculata (Salviniaceae), Echinodorus paniculatus (Alismataceae) and Eichhornia azurea (Pontederiaceae), whose classes of complexity were determined based on their leaf and branch densities, vertical structure, and height. Data were collected from 62 monospecific plant patches in temporary lentic environments. A total of 235 spiders of 33 species in 13 families was collected. Nymphaea amazonum, the plant with the lowest complexity class, did not provide adequate sites for the establishment of spiders, and only four individuals of four spider species were found on its patches. Salvinia auriculata and E. paniculatus shared the intermediate class of complexity, but showed statistically significant differences in composition and richness of spider species. In E. paniculatus, greater height and lower leaf and branch densities favored the establishment of web weavers, whereas the smaller height and higher density of S. auriculata promoted the occurrence of wandering spiders. Eichhornia azurea, the plant with the highest complexity class, presented the greatest number of unique spider species, differing from the other plants in spider species composition. Results indicate that richness and composition of spider species associated with aquatic macrophytes in the study site are influenced by the structural complexity of these plants.
25067871|Records of pholcid spiders from Micronesia and Polynesia are presented, along with records from Indonesia and parts of Melanesia. Nineteen species representing eleven genera are included. An illustrated key for Pacific pholcids is provided. Two species and one genus are not yet known from Micronesia or Polynesia, but are included in the key because they may occur there. Seven species are widespread synanthropic or anthropophilic species, two species are widespread native species, and nine species are endemics of one or several neighboring islands. Distribution maps include only specimens we have seen, not literature records.
3705449|Three new species of Neonella Gertsch 1936 are described: Neonella mayaguez from Puerto Rico, Neonella colalao and Neonella cabana from Argentina. The female of Neonella antillana Galiano 1988 is described for the first time. /// Se describen tres nuevas especies de Neonella Gertsch 1936: Neonella mayaguez de Puerto Rico, Neonella colalao y Neonella cabana de Argentina. La hembra de N. antillana Galiano 1988 se describe por primera vez.
40233840|A new species of Cyphophthalmi (Opiliones) belonging to the Sri Lankan endemic genus Pettalus is described and illustrated. Represented in a recent phylogeny of the family Pettalidae, this species was designated Pettalus cf. brevicauda, but subsequent examination of its morphology and of the type material of P. brevicauda indicates that it is a separate species. Characterization of male genitalia and SEM illustrations are included. Information on other morphospecies recently collected in Sri Lanka indicates that the number of species on the island is higher than previously thought.
3705949|The general reproductive pattern in spiders is to produce large clutches with small eggs although some species produce a few, large eggs. The spider Stegodyphus lineatus (Eresidae) is unusual in that it lays a single extremely small clutch and has small eggs. The female feeds the young after hatching and eventually the young completely consume her. Differential mortality risks in different life stages may provide an explanation of relative maternal investment in eggs versus hatchlings. By monitoring natural populations of S. lineatus, sources and rates of mortality were assessed during the reproductive period. Complete failure of reproduction was more likely during egg development than after the spiderlings had hatched. This was partially explained by the presence of a parasitoid wasp that only attacked females before the young had hatched. Overall attack rates were similar in the egg stage and in the hatchling stage; however, the spiderlings suffered less mortality because they were mobile. By allocating the major reproductive effort to hatchlings rather than eggs, these spiders may pass through the risky egg stage relatively fast; and overall development and growth can be maximized. Small egg size might be an adaptation to high predation pressure during the reproductive period. Small clutch size can be explained by the importance of early growth for offspring fitness.
3705674|The web building behavior of species of Anapis and Anapisona (Anapidae), Patu (Symphytognathidae), and Maymena and Mysmena (Mysmenidae) is homologous with orb construction of other araneoids. Possible behavioral synapomorphies linking these three families, and linking Anapidae with Mysmenidae are proposed.
41317233|Most orb webs are vertically asymmetric with the hub above the geometric center, even though the basic structure of orb webs with concentric sticky spiral loops implies a round shape with the hub in its geometric center. Spiders are known to modify the basic, round web structure to achieve asymmetric webs by placing the sticky spiral loops eccentrically around the hub and by inserting partial sticky spiral loops below the hub. In addition, spiders could increase asymmetry with larger spiral spacing below the hub than above. In the present paper, I analyzed these web modifications quantitatively in webs of Araneus diadematus Clerck 1757. In addition, I assessed the influence of gravity on the different web modifications during web building by laying some webs horizontally during auxiliary and/or sticky spiral building, and I also assessed how the web modifications affected each other during web building. I found that web orientation during auxiliary spiral building influenced auxiliary spiral eccentricity, which in turn had an impact on sticky spiral eccentricity and overall web asymmetry. Web orientation, together with web asymmetry and spiral ratio, during sticky spiral building only influenced spiral spacing asymmetry. I conclude that A. diadematus uses the auxiliary spiral as a guiding line during sticky spiral building and that it applies different rules to build the two spirals.
3706174|The spermatogenesis of four species of haplogyne spiders from Argentina is analyzed. Dysdera crocota (Dysderidae) (n = 5 + X0) has holokinetic chromosomes, achiasmatic male meiosis and a post-reductional division of the sex chromosome. Ariadna boesenbergii (Segestriidae) (n = 4 + X0) also possesses holokinetic chromosomes, but meiosis is chiasmatic and the X chromosome divides pre-reductionally. Kukulcania hibernalis (Filistatidae) (
25654014|Since venom is costly to produce and stinging is not obligatory in prey capture for scorpions, the need to optimize use of resources suggests that venom should be reserved for prey that cannot otherwise be overpowered, (i.e., larger and/or more active prey). In accordance with these predictions, sting use by Hadrurus spadix Stahnke 1940 increased with prey size, reaching 100% once prey items were longer than the scorpion's pedipalp patella length, and with prey activity, which we manipulated by varying prey temperature. Surprisingly, the scorpions were slower to capture less active (cooler) prey than those that exhibited higher rates of activity. We suggest this is because prey are located by vibrations in the substrate, with less active prey producing fewer vibrations.
4129838|Copulation duration varies greatly in wolf spider species, ranging from a few seconds to several hours. In Pardosa agrestis (Araneae, Lycosidae), the most common ground dwelling spider in Central European fields, copulation typically takes more than two hours. Since long copulation is likely to entail certain costs, we address the question, "what is the function of long copulations?" We investigated the consequences of lengthy copulation in an experimental situation, where copulations either ended spontaneously, or were interrupted after 10 min, 40 min or 90 min. There was no difference in the number of offspring per female when treatments were compared and we conclude that ten minutes of copulation was sufficient to fertilize all the eggs of a female. Long copulations should therefore have other functions than securing the necessary amount of sperm for fertilization. We also found that neither the time until egg production after copulation, nor offspring size was affected by copulation duration. This suggests the lack of transfer of ejaculatory substances that would either stimulate the egg sac formation or increase the size of the spiderlings. We propose that prolonged copulations gain meaning in multiple mating situations and should play a role in sperm competition or other forms of sexual selection. The extra time may be used for copulatory courtship, or for the transfer of surplus sperm or other substances to manipulate the female's willingness to copulate with other males, or to use sperm from them. These hypotheses remain to be tested in multiple mating experiments.
3705733|Guarding green lynx spiders reduce egg sac mortality from two major sources, ants and sac dislodgement, using specific behavior patterns. However, they do not discriminate against egg sacs parasitized by mantispids, which are a third important mortality source. When ants are placed on egg sacs females attack, relocate the sac, or cut attachment lines so that the sac hangs from a minimal number of threads. Egg sacs are also relocated in response to other disturbances. The method of moving the egg sac relies heavily on silk lines and is distinct from that of lycosids and pisaurids.
3706384|During most of the year, the wolf spider Pardosa lapidicina Emerton 1885 occupies tidal cobble beaches surrounding Narragansett Bay, RI, USA, but in late autumn part of the population moves into adjacent forest litter to overwinter. We monitored these movements with drift fences and pitfall traps from 1996-1999 and evaluated the possible roles of ambient temperature, rainfall, humidity and storm events. We tested substrate choice over the season as a proxy for migratory tendency, both in the laboratory and the field, focusing on the roles of temperature and photoperiod. The timing of peak migration differed among years (S.D. = 15.5 d). Minimum weekly temperature, weekly rainfall, percent relative humidity and storm events did not explain the variation in migratory times. However, significantly more spiders migrated during weeks with below-freezing temperatures than in weeks without them. Leaf litter, which has less variable temperatures than beach cobble, may provide a refuge from extreme temperatures during winter. Spiders maintained at cold temperatures in laboratory experiments chose leaves over beach cobble significantly more often than did those in warm temperatures. The time of year that spiders were collected also influenced their probability of choosing leaf substrate in the laboratory. Photoperiod, on the other hand, did not significantly influence substrate preference. This study helps to uncover how environmental cues influence seasonal movements across a habitat boundary.
3706362|This study investigates the indirect effects of primary productivity enhancement via fertilization, and the direct effects of environmental differences at two elevations, on the density and species richness of leaf-litter spiders. Litter was sampled in tabonuco forest (340-360 m elevation) and elfin forest (1051 m elevation) within the Luquillo Experimental Forest Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) site in Puerto Rico. Treatments consisted of three blocks with fertilization and control plots at both sites, and a one time removal of hurricane generated debris at tabonuco forest only. Treatments had no significant effect on spider density, species diversity, and species richness at either elevation. Elfin forest showed lower densities and lower species richness than tabonuco forest due to harsh environmental conditions. The thin litter layer and similar standing litter in the tabonuco forest suggest that spiders are limited by habitat, and also that they have successfully recolonized the debris cleared areas at this elevation. Harsh environmental conditions at elfin forest seem to be strong enough to counteract the effects of fertilizer addition on the measured variables. However, the high biomass of grasses in the fertilization plots at elfin forest could have caused an underestimation of spider densities. This study suggests that habitat availability is an important variable in bottom-up models for food web link control.
25434288|Tree trunks link the forest floor and higher canopy layers, thus constituting an important habitat element for many arthropod species, including spiders living in the canopy. We sampled spiders moving on tree trunks in the boreal forest using two trap designs referred to as "bottle traps" (BT) and "cup traps" (CT) placed on both trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides Michaux) and white spruce (Picea glauca (Moench) Voss) trees of similar DBH (diameter at breast height). Over an average of 83.5  6.3 days/trap (48 traps), we collected a total 333 spiders, representing 13 families and 33 species. Clubiona canadensis Emerton 1890 (Clubionidae), Callobius bennetti (Blackwall 1846) (Amaurobiidae), Pocadicnemis americana Millidge 1976 (Linyphiidae), and Orodrassus canadensis Platnick & Shadab 1975 (Gnaphosidae) were the most commonly collected species, representing more than 60% of the total catch. Twenty eight species and 285 individuals were collected by BTs compared to 18 species and 48 individuals by CTs. Catches in BTs included 15 unique species, whereas five species were unique in CT catches. BTs are easier to transport and deploy, they catch more spiders per trap, and appear to more efficiently sample spider diversity. Thus we recommend the use of BTs to effectively sample wandering spiders on tree trunks; however, the use of both designs could increase understanding about the role of tree trunks as structural features linking forest canopies to the ground layers below.
3705436|Interrelatedness among colony members and predation competence through cooperative foraging have been proposed as factors which act to maintain an atypically high level of social organization in the pseudoscorpion, Paratemnus elongatus. In this paper we report on two sets of field observations consistent with these hypotheses: 1) female-bias in sex ratio, and 2) the ability of P. elongatus to capture unusually large, heavily-armored prey. Cooperative foraging behavior enables this pseudoscorpion to exploit ant prey (Cephalotes atratus) thirty times it own mass.
3705541|The genus Zora C.L. Koch, 1848 in North America includes two species: Zora pumila (Hentz) and Zora hespera new species. Diagnoses, descriptions, distributions, and natural history notes are presented.
4149964|The web construction behavior of Achaearanea tesselata (Keyserling 1884) was observed in the field and in captivity using suspended wire frames that allowed detailed observations. Construction included three stages: preliminary exploration during which lines were broken, reeled up, and replaced; construction of anchor lines and the upper tangle; and construction and then filling in of the sheet below the tangle. Repeated visits to the mouth of the retreat during tangle construction resulted in the apparent reinforcement of the few lines radiating from this area, a possible adaptation to sense the location of prey in the web, and to facilitate orientation of the spider to prey in the web. Filling in the sheet, which alternated with additions to the tangle, included two previously undescribed behavioral patterns: irregular wandering on the sheet and apparent attachments of the dragline using only the two legs IV to hold previous lines against the spinnerets. The spider needed 1-2 nights, working several hours each night, to make a complete tangle and sheet and added lines and extended both the tangle and the sheet on subsequent nights. Spiders adapted the shapes of their webs to their surroundings.
3705609|Twenty-nine colonies of a population of the cooperative spider Stegodyphus sarasinorum Karsch (Eresidae), from two sites in Bangalore, Karnataka State, India, were examined using protein allozyme electrophoresis. Thirty-five enzyme systems were examined. Twenty-two enzymes (the products of 25 putative loci) gave scorable results. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) were polymorphic with two alleles each; hexokinase exhibited uninterpretable variation. The rest were monomorphic. One LDH allele was found at only one of two collection sites, and one G6PDH allele was found only at the other collection site. The pattern of variation in S. sarasinorum is similar to that found in three other studies of cooperative spiders: extreme population subdivision, with most colonies consisting of identical homozygotes.
23070785|Northwest Europe's largest heather-dominated sandy habitats are located in the nature reserve Lneburger Heide, Germany. Yet, even these appear to be losing their ability to support some of their stenotopic species such as the ladybird spider, Eresus kollari Rossi 1846, and are thus becoming increasingly important for the preservation of these species. The habitat requirements of this endangered spider species were investigated in order to obtain data that will help stabilize the last remnants of the species' population in northwest Germany. Several heathland habitats were surveyed by pitfall trapping during the mate-search period of the males. Two statistical methods were applied: logistic regression and boosted regression trees (BRT). Both methods showed that three habitat variables are of prime relevance in predicting the occurrence of E. kollari: a) thickness of the organic layer (a negative effect), b) soil temperature at a depth of 10 cm, and c) Calluna cover in the herb layer (both have positive effect). Our results show that choppering (removing above-ground biomass and most of O-layer) and burning are likely appropriate heathland management measures for the conservation of E. kollari. Such measures improve the species' habitat quality by creating a heterogenic (small-scaled) heathland structure with suitable microhabitats. As Calluna heathlands show a clear senescence of the dominant heather, it is essential that those habitat patches be conserved. Further measures, such as transfer experiments, are recommended.
40233842|Life history theory predicts that the intensity of selection will decline as individuals age; thus, adaptive traits should decrease during post-reproductive stages. To test this prediction, I measured several potential fitness variables in adult female crab spiders [Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757): Thomisidae]: maximum mass before laying, mass after laying, mass at release into hunting site, carapace width, and days since egg-laying upon A) daily rate of loss in mass after egg-laying while guarding a brood and B) daily rate of gain in mass after release into a rich hunting site. These individuals were members of a normally semelparous population guarding their nests without feeding for 1-26 days past egg-laying. Rate of decline in mass of the spiders slowed significantly over time (P < 0.01), and large individuals lost mass relatively faster than smaller ones (P < 0.05), but no other tested variables affected their rate of loss in mass. However, none of the above-noted variables significantly affected their rate of gain in mass after release into the hunting site. None of these individuals likely produced a second brood. The scarcity of relationships among variables measured, especially those following release into the rich hunting site, is consistent with these individuals experiencing little or no direct selection for fitness-enhancing traits subsequent to egg-laying. The exceptions noted for the guarding period probably resulted directly from success at an earlier life stage.
3705251|Mexichthonius unicus, new genus and new species, is described on basis of a specimen from Campeche, Mexico. Affinities of the new genus are discussed briefly.
3705423| Two groups of copulating pairs were observed, compared and analyzed. Ten copulations occurred in group A at cool environmental temperatures (mean = 16.2 C). In group B, 10 copulations occurred at warm environmental temperatures (mean = 27.7 C). Mean copulation duration of group A was longer than that of group B. However, both papal insertion and papal alternation numbers did not show any statistical differences between the groups. Temporal distribution of the papal insertions, as well as the alternations in the use of each palp, showed differences in frequency and pattern when comparing the two groups. A high level of stereotypy of the copulatory behavior of Lycosa malitiosa was confirmed, together with the inverse correlation between duration and environmental temperature. The decision whether to switch from one palp to the other might be affected by temperature-influenced local factors, such as the viscosity of spermatic fluid and/or muscular fatigue in the palp. 
3705788|Allozyme variation was examined in five species of solitary spiders collected in Illinois and Missouri including Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz), S. stridulans Stratton, S. rovneri Uetz & Dondale, Phidippus clarus Keyserling, and Metaphidippus galathea (Walckenaer). The average number of alleles per locus was small, and the average heterozygosity ranged from 2.3 to 12.5. The percent of polymorphic loci ranged from 16.6 to 66.7%. For one species, P. clarus, a Missouri population is compared to a population from South Carolina (Terranova & Roach 1987). Overall, the genetic variability estimates are lower than those for other North American spiders. However, the observed genetic variation is approximately four times higher than that observed in communal spiders.
3705053|Relative abundance of three vaejovid scorpions was assessed using pitfall traps. Scorpions were sampled west of Albuquerque, Bernalillo Co., New Mexico during summer 1982. A total of 146 scorpions was captured in 3735 trap nights. Paruroctonus utahensis was the dominant species in flat grassland habitat (62-72% of captures). Vaejovis coahuilae and V. russelli were both found in the flat grassland habitat, but in lower numbers than P. utahensis. The two Vaejovis species were common in rocky cliff habitat (V. coahuilae 61%, V. russelli 37%) but P. utahensis was rare on the cliff (2% of captures). Paruroctonus may be unable to occupy the rocky cliff because it lacks suitable soil for burrowing.
3705174|The baergi group of the nominate subgenus Paruroctonus Werner, 1934, of North America, is differentiated by the combination of: basitarsus II without a mid-retrosuperior seta, pectinal teeth usually exceed 22 in males and 18 in females, pedipalp palm with well developed and granular carinae in both sexes, pedipalp primary denticles in rows 1-5 usually exceed 36 on movable finger and 28 on fixed finger. Four mutually allopatric, arenicolous species consitituting the baergi group are defined or redefined, and keyed: P. baergi (Williams and Hadley, 1967), southern Mojave Desert and lower Colorado River drainage region; P. utahensis (Williams, 1968), upper Colorado River and Rio Grande drainage regions; P. arenicola, n. sp., Amargosa Desert, Nevada; P. arenicola nudipes, n. ssp., eastern Mojave Desert; P. marksi, n. sp., central and western Mojave Desert.
4489062| Fourteen specimens of Vaejovis coahuilae Williams 1968 were born in the laboratory and reared in an incubator at a near-constant 27 C. A single female reached maturity at the 8th instar, as previously hypothesized, but unverified, in this species. Two other specimens reached the 7th instar, but the male died at the molt and the female was not yet mature. Data on the duration and morphometries of observed instars are provided for all specimens. 
3704965| The comparative study of the types of Acanthothraustes brasiliensis (Mello-Leito 1931) and of Euscorpius flavicaudis (Geer 1778) demonstrates that the first one is a synonym of E. flavicaudis. Our conclusions are mostly taken from the trichobothrial pattern analysis and also from some other less important characters. /// La comparaison des caractres, spcialement ceux tirs de la trichobothriotaxie, du type d'Acanthothraustes brasiliensis (Mello-Leito 1931), du type et de nombreuses spcimens d'Euscorpius flavicaudis (Geer 1778), prouve l'identit de ces deux espces, si inattendue soit-elle. La synonymie suivante est discute et propose: Acanthothraustes brasiliensis (Mello-Leito 1931) = Euscorpius flavicaudis (Geer 1778). 
3706333|In this study, we provide an ethogram for the harvestman Ilhaia cuspidata and describe the daily activity pattern of captive individuals. We also provide a comparison between the behavioral repertory of this species with that of the syntopic Discocyrtus oliverioi. Five females and four males of I. cuspidata were maintained in the same terrarium from November 1999-November 2000 for qualitative and quantitative observations. Twenty behavioral acts were recorded, classified in seven categories and the relative frequency of each was determined: exploration (69.8%), resting (16.7%), feeding (6.3%), grooming (4.4%), social interactions (2.6%), reproduction (0.1%) and others (0.3%). There was a marked difference in the frequency of the behavioral categories between sexes: females fed more frequently than males and males were involved in social interactions more frequently than females. During most of the daylight hours, individuals remained inside shelters and became active from 19:00-09:00 h. Although I. cuspidata and D. oliverioi showed almost the same behavioral acts, there were quantitative differences in their repertories: the relative frequency of behavioral categories "resting" and "social interactions" were higher for I. cuspidata whereas "reproduction" and "grooming" were higher for D. oliverioi. The main qualitative difference between these two species was related to the forms of parental care: females of D. oliverioi guard their eggs and first instar juveniles, whereas females of I. cuspidata scatter their eggs in time and space and do not actively protect their offspring. Since both species share the same habitats (sometimes in multi-species aggregations), the behavioral differences between them may be explained by particular morphological and physiological characteristics of the species, as well as by phylogenetic constraints.
40233836|Although all species of the Brachypelma genus are protected under CITES, few studies have been performed on the genetic structure of the populations of these endangered tarantulas. Here we propose, for the first time in spiders, to use ISSR (Inter Simple Sequence Repeat) technique to study the genetic variability of Mexican populations of Brachypelma vagans (Ausserer 1875). We used a nonlethal technique to collect samples from six populations in the Yucatan peninsula and we tested seven ISSR primers. Four of these primers gave fragments (bands) that were sufficiently clear and reproducible to construct a binary matrix and determine genetic variability parameters. We revealed a very high percentage of polymorphism (P = 98.7%) the highest yet reported for tarantula spiders. Our results show that the ISSR-PCR method is promising for intraspecific variation of tarantula spiders.
3705278|The courtship behavior of Schizocosa rovneri Uetz and Dondale is described and analyzed. Courtship behavior in this species is distinct from that of Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz), although these species are morphologically very similar and indistinguishable on the basis of genitalia. Males of both species courted conspecific and heterospecific females with almost equal frequency. However, females only responded receptively and copulated with conspecific males. Males of S. rovneri exhibited quantitative differences in aspects of courtship behavior in response to different stimuli. In the presence of a conspecific female, the searching phase was shorter and less variable, and the stridulation bouts were three times as frequent than with heterospecific females. Values of these parameters for male S. rovneri with only the silk (and pheromone) of a conspecific female were intermediate. Data on habital and seasonal occurrence of the two species suggest that S. ocreata breeds earlier in the season and prefers upland forest areas, while S. rovneri breeds 2-3 weeks later and prefers bottom-land forest and river flood plains. It is suggested that differences in courtship behavior serve to maintain reproductive isolation in these two species, whose spatial and temporal isolation is incomplete.
3704972|Removal of the coxa from fourth instar female Latrodectus variolus results in wound healing with no subsequent regeneration in the 20-25% surviving this drastic surgical procedure. Following subsequent molts the coxa adjacent to the amputation site moves into the area vacated by the amputation.
4129869|In this study, the process of egg sac construction and the factors that determine fecundity in the spider Loxosceles intermedia were analyzed by comparing lab-reared females that had mated only once (n = 180 ovipositions) and females with unknown reproductive histories (n = 76 ovipositions). Among females known to have mated only once (n = 84), the number of viable eggs correlated positively with the duration of mating and with the age of the female at the time of fertilization and decreased significantly with successive ovipositions. In females with unknown (n = 36) reproductive histories, up to three fertile egg sacs were obtained from the same female with a third oviposition being observed only once. Oviposition was more frequent among larger females than smaller females. Among the reproductive variables evaluated, there were correlations between the number of eggs and the weight of the female spiders. More fertile eggs were laid by females with unknown reproductive histories than by females that mated only once. The existence of more stable environmental conditions, abundant food, and multiple fertilizations are probable factors which favor greater fertility of L. intermedia in urban Curitiba, located in southern Brazil, and can partly explain the success of this species in occupying this ecological niche.
3705337| A systematic revision of the solifugids of Colombia and Venezuela is presented. All the species mentioned here belong to the family Ammotrechidae. Two genera and one species are described as new: Xenotrecha, new genus, for X. huebneri (Kraepelin 1899) n. comb., and Eutrecha longirostris, new genus and new species. Two synonymies are proposed: Gluvia martha Karsch 1879 = Ammotrechella geniculata (C. L. Koch 1842) and Ammotrechula vogli Roewer 1952 = Ammotrechella geniculata (C. L. Koch 1842); Mummuciona marcuzzii Caporiacco 1951 is tentatively considered as a synonym of M. simoni Roewer 1934. "Gluvia gracilis" C. L. Koch 1842 is definitively eliminated from the New World solifugid fauna. The other species reported in this contribution are Saronomus capensis (Kraepelin 1899) and Ammotrechula sp. Some subfamilial and generic characters employed in the systematics of the family Ammotrechidae are discussed. /// Se presenta una revisin sistemtica de los solfugos de Colombia y Venezuela. Todas las especies aqu mencionadas pertenecen a la familia Ammotrechidae. Se describen dos gneros y una especie nuevos: Xenotrecha, gnero nuevo, para X. huebneri (Kraepelin 1899) n. comb., y Eutrecha longirostris, gnero y especie nuevos. Se proponen dos sinonimias: Gluvia martha Karsch 1879 = Ammotrechella geniculata (C. L. Koch 1842) y Ammotrechula vogli Roewer 1951 = Ammotrechella geniculata (C. L. Koch 1842); Mummuciona marcuzzi Caporiacco 1951 es tentativamente considerada como un sinnimo de M. simoni Roewer 1934. "Gluvia gracilis" C. L. Koch 1842 es definitivamente eliminada de la fauna de solfugos del Nuevo Mundo. Las otras especies de solfugos mencionadas en esta contribucin son Saronomus capensis (Kraepelin 1899) y Ammotrechula sp. Se discuten algunos caracteres empleados en la sistemtica de la familia Ammotrechidae. 
3705620| This paper deals with a laboratory study of the sexual behavior of Theridion rufipes. Thirty males and 30 females were reared individually from the egg stage. Precopulatory, copulatory and postcopulatory behaviors were described. Behavior patterns of the male were examined, describing in detail the 16 observed units. Females adopted a passive attitude during copulation. The positions adopted by the male and female were drawn during the process. Thirty couples were observed; in 27, copulation took place. The number of egg depositions by each fertilized female is given, as well as the percentage of fertility and fecundity, the higher percentage occuring in the first egg sacs constructed. /// En el presente trabajo se realiz el estudio del comportamiento sexual en el laboratorio de Theridion rufipes. Se utilizaron 30 machos y 30 hembras criadas en el laboratorio individualmente desde el estado de huevo. Se describieron las unidades de comportamiento precopulatorio, copulatorio y postcopulatorio. Se confeccion el patrn de comportamiento de macho, describindose en detalle las 16 unidades observadas. No se confeccion el patrn correspondiente al comportamiento de la hembra porque sta asumi una actitud pasiva durante toda la experiencia. Se graficaron las cuatro posiciones adoptadas por el macho y la hembra durante el proceso. De los 30 casos observados, en 27 se produjo cpula. Se dio a conocer el nmero de desoves realizados por hembra fecundada, el que oscil entre 3 y 9 (x = 4) y el porcentaje de fertilidad y fecundidad, correspondindole mayor porcentaje a las primeras ootecas construdas. 
20617611|Zodariellum asiaticum (Tyschchenko 1970) is an ant-eating spider from Central Asia. Using five syntopically occurring ant species, namely Cataglyphis aenescens, Formica cunicularia (both Formicinae), Messor aralocaspius, Tetramorium caespitum (both Myrmicinae), and Tapinoma erraticum (Dolichoderinae) in a laboratory study of prey-capture behavior, I evaluated capture frequency, attack latency, number of attacks, and paralysis latency. Although spiders captured all five ant species, capture efficiency varied when spiders were tested with the different ant species, being highest when the spiders were tested with F. cunicularia. I concluded that small juvenile Z. asiaticum probably adapt to feed primarily on species of small dolichoderine and myrmicine ants and that large juvenile and the adult Z. asiaticum adapt to feed primarily on large formicine ants.
24717331|Within the araneomorph lineage Entelegynae, the "Higher lycosoids" ("True Lycosoids" or Lycosoidea s.s.) is one of the major clades varying in its composition based on several conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses. So far, only a few species have been studied cytogenetically. In this work, the chromosomes of a senoculid spider were investigated for the first time, along with a cytogenetic analysis of six species of the families Lycosidae and Trechaleidae. Mitotic metaphase cells of the lycosid species revealed 2n = 18 + X0 in Hogna sternalis (Bertkau 1880) and Lycosa nordenskjoldi Tullgren 1905, and 2n = 20 + X1X20 in Lycosa erythrognatha Lucas 1836 and Lycosa sericovittata Mello-Leito 1939. Chromosomal analysis of the trechaleid and senoculid species showed 2n = 22 in Neoctenus comosus Simon 1897 (Trechaleidae), and 2n = 26 + X1X20 in Syntrechalea syntrechaloides (Mello-Leito 1941) (Trechaleidae) and Senoculus sp. (Senoculidae). This latter karyotype is a shared feature in most species of Lycosoidea group. The mitotic and/or meiotic cells of certain individuals of Trechaleidae exhibited one extra chromosome, which could constitute a B chromosome or represent intraspecific variability in the type of sex chromosome system. The results obtained here add new information to the discussion of the main mechanisms of chromosome evolution within this group.
3704952| During the seasonal mating period, mature males undergo alteration in behavior and ecology; they are more vagrant and feed less than all other components of the population. Cannibalism of mature males by mature females combined with other factors related to mating contribute to a higher death rate of adult males as compared to adult females. Reproductive behavior consists of mating rituals which minimize predatory behavior and elicit the cooperation necessary for indirect sperm transfer. These rituals include the promenade  deux, cheliceral massage, post-mating escape and heretofore undescribed behavior which precedes the actual mating dance. 
40233851|We provide a brief report on the feeding behavior of two salticid species in Bijilo Forest, The Gambia: Holcolaetis vellerea Simon 1909 and Menemerus bivittatus (Dufour 1831). The former was observed consuming a giant huntsman spider ?Heteropoda sp. (Sparassidae), which was much larger than itself and represents the first published evidence of araneophagy in this genus. M. bivittatus was frequently observed loitering close to, and orientated towards the nest entrance of stingless bees (Apidae, Apinae, Meliponini), watching them as they entered and left, but no other salticid species were observed doing this. Araneophagy and prey-specific predation behavior are well known in salticids but the behaviors reported here have not previously been documented.
20798592|Intersexual differences in juvenile behavior in invertebrates are poorly understood despite the recognition that they may be widespread. We present a study designed to explore sex differences in behavior in early instar long-bodied cellar spiders Pholcus phalangioides (Fuesslin 1775). Our findings reveal that sex differences in activity and feeding are present early in P. phalangioides, which may have important implications for studies of behavior that involve juveniles. Further investigation of the factors that underlie the early emergence of sex differences in behavior is needed.
25067877|The spider genus Syntrechalea is redefined and revised with a total of seven species recognized. The previously described species S. tenuis F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1902 and S. reimoseri Caporiacco 1947 are redefined. Syntrechalea porschi Reimoser 1939 is a new junior synonym of S. tenuis. Trechalea syntrechaleoides Mello-Leito 1941 is transferred to the genus Syntrechalea. The males of S. tenuis and S. syntrechaleoides are described for the first time. A lectotype is designated for Syntrechalea reimoseri (Caporiacco 1947). Three new species, S. adis, S. caporiacco, and S. brasilia, are described from both males and females. The new species S. caballero is described from only the female, and S. napoensis is described from only the male. The arboreal nature of the genus is emphasized and discussed.
4129879| Loxosceles intermedia is a medically important species that is abundant in Curitiba, Paran State, Brazil. Knowledge of the postembryonic development of this species is fundamental for preventing bites by this species and for controlling its population size. In this report, postembryonic development (n = 212 spiderlings) was studied in the laboratory under ambient conditions of temperature and humidity with a standardized diet. The average duration of development (from emergence from the egg sac to maturity) was 356  33 days (n = 189; range = 213-455). Spiders matured after 5th-8th molt, although most individuals matured after 7th molt. The sex ratio was 1:1. The mortality in the laboratory was low, most pronounced in the 4th and 5th instars and was associated mainly with molting. The longevity of females (1176  478 days) was significantly longer than it was for males (557  88.6 days). The abundance of L. intermedia in Curitiba, city in the southern part of Brazil, is related to aspects of its life cycle, since a slow growth, low mortality, and greater longevity enhance the reproductive potential of the species. 
3705257| Este trabajo comprende la descripcin de un nuevo arcnido para la ciencia, aumentando a 22 las especies descritas del nico gnero americano Cryptocellus, siendo para Mxico un total de nueve especies, de las cuales siete de ellas se colectaron en cuevas de Tamaulipas, San Luis Potos, Durango y Chiapas y dos de ellas incluyendo la especie colectada por nosotros en medio epigeo, esto es C. spinotibialis, debajo de troncos podridos en campos cafetaleros del volcn Tacan, Tapachula, Chiapas y C. gertschi sp. nov. colectada debajo de troncos podridos en la selva de Playa Escondida, Catemaco, Veracruz. Se anexa una clave para las especies americanas tomando en cuenta principalmente los caracteres distintivos forma, tamao y ornamentacin del cuculus y cefalotrax de cada una de ellas y un mapa de distribucin. /// One species, new to science, of the arachnid genus Cryptocellus is described herewith. The American genus Cryptocellus includes 22 species, nine of which occur in Mxico. Seven of the Mexican species have been recorded from caves in the states of Tamaulipas, San Luis Potos, Durango and Chiapas, one species was collected from underneath rotten logs in coffee plantations (Tacan Volcano, Tapachula, Chiapas), and C. gertschi n. sp. was collected underneath rotten logs in Playa Escondida, Catemaco, Veracruz. A key to the American species of Cryptocellus is included based on morphological characters of cuculus and cephalothorax. A map of distribution is also provided. 
41804573|Grazing is an established conservation tool for maintaining grassland habitats and under some circumstances may enrich arthropod assemblages. However, even if enrichment occurs, it is not granted that conservation value signified by rare and specialist species will also increase. To assess how some preset levels of grazing suit conservation aims, we studied spider assemblages of ungrazed, sparsely grazed and intensively grazed areas of a pasture in Hungary for three years by pitfall trapping and suction sampling. At ground level there was no significant difference among grazing areas, while at higher strata increasing grazing intensity negatively affected number of individuals and species. C-score analysis indicated equally neutral community assembly in all three grazing areas. All statistical methods that took into account species identity indicated virtually no difference between the spider assemblages of the sparsely grazed and ungrazed areas; however, there was a marked difference between these and the intensively grazed area. Spider species in the intensive grazing area had significantly lower affinity but wider tolerance for habitat naturalness, preferred more open habitats and had a lower rarity status. In the intensive grazing area a number of disturbance-tolerant species, among them agrobionts, were present, whereas the exclusion of rare or specialist species in the intensively grazed area occurred infrequently. The primary effect seen at the intensive grazing area was the opening of the spider assemblage to disturbance-tolerant species, while species richness was likely maintained by neighboring source populations. Overall, we experienced a marked decrease in the naturalness status of the spider assemblage in the intensive grazing area.
3705728|Two experiments were performed in order to evaluate the influence of female Nephila on various aspects of male activity. In the first experiment, the possible benefits of females' presence were measured in terms of male longevity. In the second, food deprived and sated males were offered a choice of mating or feeding with a receptive female. In the first experiment, groups of individually-housed males were provided with: regularly fed females with which to mate and share prey and silk, freshly killed prey and female silk with no female, female's silk alone, or nothing at all. Solitary males provided with prey and silk lived longer than those in other groups: feeding on silk alone did not affect longevity. Males provided with females lived longer than those without. No significant relationship between body size and longevity was noted in either summer. In the second experiment, two groups of male Nephila were deprived of food for a week. One group was then fed prey partially eaten by a female. Males were then placed on females' webs with prey to determine the influence of deprivation on orientation towards prey or female. Males generally preferred to mate first, even when deprived of food for a long period of time. Observations were made to determine if specific pre-copulatory behaviors exist, and body jerking (violent, rapid shaking with first two sets of legs often jumping on and off the silk) was observed to occur primarily before mating. Other indicators of arousal, such as abdomen wagging or shaking, and exploratory behaviors such as plucking or probing, occurred equally often before mating and feeding.
3705312|The masses of Sphodros atlanticus and Ummidia sp. spiderlings capable of ballooning, and of Antrodiaetus unicolor spiderlings believed not to balloon, were estimated by means of a volume-mass regression developed with data from five araneomorph families, and compared with the mass frequency distribution of a sample of 216 aerially dispersing araneomorphs trapped over a one week period in a soybean field. Mean estimated masses of the Sphodros and Ummidia spiderlings were 1.25 mg and 3.45 mg, respectively. Although these were in at least the 95th percentile of masses of the trapped araneomorphs, larger araneomorphs were trapped. These results and the finding that A. unicolor spiderlings were intermediate in estimated mass (mean = 2.02 mg) between S. atlanticus and Ummidia, indicate that mass is not the only constraint on ballooning behavior in mygalomorphs. Habitats of the three species support the habitat predictability hypothesis of ballooning, A. unicolor tending to be found in more predictable habitats than the other two species. Live mass measurements of ballooning Ummidia spiderlings indicate that the volume-mass regression estimates of mygalomorph spiderling masses are consistently slightly high. This may be due to tissue density differences between araneomorphs and mygalomorphs.
41758966|Behavioral evidence suggests that, in some scorpion species, females deposit a pheromone that attracts mates. To date, however, no pheromone has been identified. The goal of our study was to isolate a pheromone from female desert grassland scorpions, Paruroctonus utahensis (Williams, 1968) (Scorpiones: Vaejovidae). We took in situ cuticular washes from female P. utahensis in a chloroform-methanol solution; the extract stratified into aqueous and organic layers. In controlled laboratory experiments, most males exposed to female extract (aqueous and organic fractions combined) exhibited pre-courtship behavior, whereas those exposed to the solvent control (2:1 chloroform-methanol) showed no change in behavior. When extract fractions were separately tested, males initiated pre-courtship behavior when exposed to the organic fraction but not when exposed to the aqueous fraction. These data are the first experimental evidence of a female pheromone in this species and are important early steps toward characterizing any scorpion pheromone.
3705727|Female bowl and doily spiders, Frontinella pyramitela, build species-typical webs throughout their lives. In contrast, males of the species cease the construction of prey capture webs soon after they become adults, though they continue to be capable of producing sperm-induction webs and draglines. In this report we describe the timing of the senescence of web construction, analyze the structure and utility of the webs built by adult males, and eliminate two variables, mass at maturity and adult feeding history, as important contributors to the variability in rate of senescence.
3706232|The arachnid order Opiliones has typically been divided into three suborders (Cyphophthalmi, Laniatores and Palpatores), but this system has been challenged in recent years. Based on scenarios of genitalic evolution, Martens and coworkers have argued that certain lineages within Palpatores are more closely related to Cyphophthalmi than to other palpatorean opilions and erected a new clade, Cyphopalpatores, to accommodate this proposal. However, this system is also problematic. Because most genitalic characters within Opiliones are unique to that order, genitalic characters cannot be polarized and opilion phylogeny cannot be rooted using objective outgroup comparison. Thus the Cyphopalpatores concept rests heavily on speculative scenarios of character evolution. The goal of the present study was to examine relationships among the major lineages of Opiliones using both genitalic and non-genitalic characters and thereby assess the Cyphopalpatores concept and associated scenarios of genitalic evolution. Maximum-parsimony analysis of a matrix composed of 17 terminal taxa (including two outgroups) and 26 binary and multistate characters recovered a minimal-length topology that was incompatible with the Cyphopalpatores concept but suggested that Cyphophthalmi is the sister group to a clade comprising a monophyletic Palpatores and monophyletic Laniatores. In contrast, the most-parsimonious distribution of characters within the minimal-length topology supported many of the character transformation series upon which the Cyphopalpatores concept was based. This result reaffirms the observation that a given hypothesis of character evolution can be consistent with several phylogenetic hypotheses and that an empirically robust phylogenetic analysis should include more than one character system.
3706272|The Oriental spider genus Perilla Thorell is revised, diagnosed and transferred from the tetragnathid subfamily Nephilinae to the araneid subfamily Araneinae. Cladistic analysis of recently published araneid matrices with the addition of Perilla supports this new placement. Perilla groups with Chorizopes O. P.-Cambridge, previously a basal araneid. Perilla teres Thorell, the type species of the genus, is redescribed. The only other known species, Perilla cylindrogaster Simon, is proposed as a junior synonym of P. teres, which renders Perilla monotypic.
3704932|The four known species of the genus Coriarachne that occur in Canada and the United States are described and illustrated. A key to species and distribution maps are provided. Coriarachne nakina Gertsch 1953 is synonymized under Coriarachne brunneipes Banks 1893, and Coriarachne aemula (O. P.-Cambridge) 1898 is synonymized under Coriarachne versicolor Keyserling 1880.
3705360|The genus Nannochelifer Beier is redefined, the type species, N. litoralis Beier from Kenya, is redescribed, and a new species from Turtle Islet in the Coral Sea, N. paralius, is described.
3706266|Argyrodes Simon 1864 is a large, cosmopolitan theridiid genus whose members exhibit a wide range of foraging techniques which usually involve exploiting other spiders, either by using their webs, stealing their food, or preying on them directly. We held a symposium on this genus at the 15th International Congress of Arachnology, Badplaas, South Africa in order to obtain a clearer perspective on the relationship between the phylogeny of the genus and the different foraging techniques. We concluded that Argyrodes forms a monophyletic group within the Theridiidae, and that there are clear monophyletic clades within the genus (already identified as species groups) that appear to share behavioral characteristics. We found no clear indication that foraging behaviors such as kleptoparasitism (stealing food) evolved from araneophagy (eating spiders) or vice versa. However, it appears that species that specialize in either kleptoparasitism or araneophagy use additional techniques in comparison to species that readily use both foraging modes. During our examination of Argyrodes/host interactions we noted the importance of Nephila species as hosts of Argyrodes species around the world and the impact of Argyrodes on Nephila. We also noted the fluid nature of the relationship between Argyrodes and the spiders with which they interact. For example, an Argyrodes/host relationship can change to an Argyrodes/prey relationship, and the type of kleptoparasitic behavior employed by an Argyrodes can change when it changes host species. The importance of eating silk was also noted and identified as an area for further research. We concluded that more work involving international collaboration is needed to fully understand the phylogeny of the genus and the relationships between the different types of foraging behaviors.
24717314|Behavior can provide useful traits for testing phylogenetic hypotheses, and some details of orb web construction behavior have been especially useful in characterizing higher-level groups in spiders. The cues used to guide construction behavior and behavioral responses to these cues hold similar promise, but have never been used in phylogenetic studies. Here we use several techniques to test the hypothesis that orb webs in the two major branches of orb-weaving araneomorph spiders (Araneoidea and Deinopoidea) are monophyletic, using both the cues that guide orb construction and the spiders' responses to these cues. If orb webs evolved only once, the expectation is that these traits should be similar in members of both evolutionary lines. This prediction was supported: species in the two groups use several of the same cues, and respond to them in similar ways. These cues include two identical reference stimuli for positioning sticky spiral lines; supplies of silk available in their glands that affect the positioning of sticky spiral loops; and at least one stimulus related to the size of the available space for the orb, which is used to trigger similar modifications of seven independent orb design traits. Neither group used tension-related cues to guide sticky spiral placement. These comparisons reinforce previous conclusions supporting orb web monophyly that were derived from morphological, molecular, and behavioral traits.
3705121|The responses of five tropical orb-weaving spiders (family Araneidae and Uloboridae) to predatory attacks by salticids and hummingbirds were observed. Responses varied between species and predators. Salticid attacks dorsal to orb-weavers on the web evoked rapid movements which displaced the salticid from the orb-weaver's dorsum. Ventral salticid attacks were countered by stilting. Attacks by hummingbirds evoked dropping or retreat from the web surface. Uloborus republicanus (Simon) without eggmasses dropped more frequently than U. republicanus with eggmasses when attacked by hummingbirds. Cyclosa caroli (Hentz) did not respond to hummingbird attacks directed toward the debris-like stabilimentum; however, salticid spider contacts on the Cyclosa or stabilimentum evoked active defense.
3705051| A new species, Lycosa carbonelli, is indicated as a sibling species of Lycosa thorelli (Keyserling), which is fully described. Both species differ clearly by their patterns of courtship behavior. On the basis of four experiments it was proved that the females only responded receptively in presence of a conspecific male. /// Una especie nueva, Lycosa carbonelli, es indicada como especie gemela de Lycosa thorelli (Keyserling), la cual es redescripta. Ambas especies difieren claramente por el modelo de su comportamiento sexual. Sobre la base de cuatro experiencias fue probado que las hembras solamente respondieron receptivamente ante la presencia de un macho coespecfico. 
3705970|Pore-bearing cephalothoracic sulci (pits) are described and illustrated for the first time in several linyphiine spiders (Linyphiidae, Linyphiinae). Sulci are reported in members of the genera Bathyphantes Menge, Diplostyla Emerton, Kaestneria Wiehle, Pacifiphantes Eskov & Marusik, Porrhomma Simon, and Vesicapalpus Millidge. The phylogenetic implications of the presence of sulci in linyphiines are discussed.
20617593|The karyotypes and course of meiosis of two pseudoscorpions, Semeiochernes armiger (Balzan 1892) and Cordylochernes scorpioides (Linnaeus 1758) (Pseudoscorpiones: Chernetidae), are described for the first time. The diploid chromosome number of the male is 69 in S. armiger and 47 in C. scorpioides. As in most pseudoscorpions studied to date, autosomes exhibit predominantly biarmed morphology. Both species possess an X0 sex chromosome system. In most pseudoscorpions with X0 system karyotyped so far, including European chernetids, the X chromosome exhibits metacentric morphology. In contrast, the X chromosome of both neotropical chernetids studied exhibits asymmetric, submetacentric morphology.
23610265|A new name Honolophus bastawadei is proposed for Euphalangium martensi Das and Bastawade 2006 non Starga 1986.
3705692| The new genus and species Cocinachernes foliosus is described, based on specimens from Isla Cocinas, Estado de Jalisco, Mxico. It is unique in the form of the spermathecae of the female. 
3705772|Four species of Metaphidippus (Araneae: Salticidae) occupied different habitat types in Minnesota; M. arizonensis was found exclusively in sand prairie; M. flavipedes was almost completely restricted to conifers; M. insignis primarily inhabited open, non-canopy vegetation (e.g., grasslands); whereas, M. protervus occupied most habitats, but most evidently shaded forest understory and wetlands. Reasons for such habitat partitioning are conjectural. Size differences among the four species probably were not ecologically significant based on Dyar's constant; however, competition for prey may have influenced habitat selection.
3706150| Males of the Neotropical harvestman Ampheres leucopheus (Mello-Leito 1922) were observed guarding egg-batches attached to the undersurface of leaves. As recorded for other paternal harvestmen, males of A. leucopheus guard egg-batches containing eggs in different developmental stages as well as newly hatched nymphs. This is the second case of paternal care recorded among gonyleptids and the fifth in the order Opiliones. 
4149980|Preliminary observations on Helvibis thorelli (Theridiidae) in French Guiana suggest a typical subsocial behavior in this species, with nests consisting of a mother and her offspring who collaborate in prey capture. Communal feeding occurs over several juvenile instars. Subsociality has previously been described in three theridiid genera (Achaearanea, Anelosimus, Theridion) and predicted to occur in further genera of the subfamily Theridiinae. Our findings support this prediction and have important implications for comparative studies as they add another independent observation of social behavior: current phylogenetic knowledge implies subsociality evolved independently in each of these genera.
3705499|The holotypes of the trigonotarbids Lissomartus carbonarius (Petrunkevitch 1913) and Lissomartus schucherti (Petrunkevitch 1913) (Arachnida, Trigonotarbida) from the Pennsylvanian (Westphalian D) of Mazon Creek are redescribed. These forms may be synonymous, representing male/female or juvenile/adult dimorphs, but the two species are retained at present. A new reconstruction of Lissomartus schucherti is presented. A new family, Lissomartidae, is proposed for these species based on a combination of their lack of opisthosomal tuberculation and their opisthosomal segmentation pattern of tergites 2 + 3 fused and tergite 9 divided into median and lateral plates. Lissomartidae new family may be intermediate between Trigonotarbidae and Eophrynidae + Aphantomartidae.
25067862|The female of Camptocosa texana Dondale, Jimnez & Nieto 2005 is described from Arizona. Females of C. texana are compared to those of C. parallela (Banks 1898), which differ from C. texana females in the color morphology of the carapace and the shape of the median septum.
4489065|A new species of the genus Mastophora is described from Argentina. The male of M. vaquera is described from Cuba.
24365287|A scorpion's last metasomal segment (telson) consists of a bulbous base that contains two venom glands and a curved tip (aculeus) where two venom ducts open to the outside. These two openings lie laterally just before the very tip of the aculeus; to see both of them at the same time, the stinger has to be looked at "tail-on" from the dorsal side. The two venom ducts have a distinct cuticular lining, which can be recognized in a transparent exuvia as long tubes (1 mm) extending from the distal pores back to the venom glands. Whereas the proximal bulb has many long sensory hairs on its surface, the distal aculeus is very smooth but contains small pits with tiny club-shaped hairs. These are probably contact chemoreceptors. The advantage of such sunken sensory hairs is certainly that the stinger can penetrate into prey (or foe) but can still perceive mechanical or chemical stimuli. Additionally, the aculeus bears several slit sensilla and numerous fine pores of unknown function. The aculeus is thus not only a well-adapted injection device but also contains sensory structures, which provide information on mechanical and chemical input.
4489071|Shelter site selection by Mastigoproctus giganteus in an atypical microhabitat in the northern Chihuahuan Desert characterized by hard adobe soils is described for the first time. The majority of the 321 whipscorpions (70.4%) were found within rock crevices during periods of highest daytime ambient temperatures, as compared to those found under plant debris (4.4%) or inside small mammal holes (25.2%). The percentage of available crevices, holes or plant debris that were occupied by whipscorpions was 41.5, 3.8 and 7.3%, respectively. Most occupied crevices (66.7%) were in the shade. Depths of occupied crevices ranged from 6.4- 36.7 cm. Crevice widths ranged from 0.7-2.9 cm. Whipscorpions used crevices whose height above the surface of the ground ranged from 6.5 cm- 1.1 m. No whipscorpions were observed at the ground surface, even in shaded areas, between 0645 and 1910 hr (CST).
25434297|In this paper, Trechona venosa rufa Vellard 1924 is elevated to species rank, a neotype is designated, the male is described for the first time, and the female is redescribed. Trechona rufa seems to be restricted to the Atlantic Forest of So Paulo state, southeastern Brazil, covering an area along the coast and going up to the southern slope of the Mantiqueira mountain chain. The composition and distribution of the genus Trechona is changed. As a result, only three valid species remain in Trechona, all inhabiting the Atlantic Forest of Brazil. The other species formerly included in Trechona are considered below: T. lycosiformis (C.L. Koch 1842) = Avicularia lycosiformis comb. nov., Theraphosidae incertae sedis; T. sericata (Karsch 1879) = Linothele sericata (Karsch 1879), Dipluridae incertae sedis; T. adspersa Bertkau 1880 = Nemesiidae incertae sedis; T. rogenhoferi (Ausserer 1871) = nomen dubium.
3705847|Spiderlings of Loxosceles laeta from a single egg sac were fed on two different diets: a varied one of fruit flies, mealworms and about ten meals of miscellaneous insects, and a limited one of fruit flies and mealworms only. About three times as many of those on the limited diet died before maturity (61%) as those on a varied diet (21%). Those on a varied diet had fewer molts to maturity, reached adulthood sooner, but lived longer as adults and had a longer total life span than those on the limited diet. They also grew to a larger size than ones on the limited diet. Both populations showed similar survivorship curves, except for the limited diet group in which initial deaths during molting, before adulthood, showed 50% deaths in the first year. After that the survivorship curve was an A type like the other group. It is concluded that the diet of this spider and probably all spiders should include a variety of insects to approximate the best growing conditions.
23610266|We report the recent collection and observation of large numbers of specimens of the troglobitic harvestman Speleosiro argasiformis Lawrence 1931 in the Wynberg Cave system, Table Mountain, South Africa. Specimens were collected and/or photographed in different caves of the system. Live observation showed specimens fleeing bat carcasses when disturbed.
3706060|Male Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz) wolf spiders (Araneae, Lycosidae) have tufts of elongated, dark bristles on the patella and tibia of the forelegs, which are involved in visual signaling. Previous research has suggested that these tufts are used by females as a criterion in mate choice, raising the question of whether they might serve as indicators of male condition. We tested the hypothesis that tufts are condition-dependent indicator traits with a laboratory rearing study subjecting spiders to lifelong feeding regimens representing successful (high food) and unsuccessful (low food) foraging history, after which males were measured upon reaching adulthood. Mortality varied significantly with experimental treatment, and had a disproportionate impact on some egg sacs assigned to the low food treatment. Age at sexual maturity and several body size measures varied significantly with feeding history. Well-fed spiders survived better, matured earlier, were significantly larger, and were in relatively better condition (measured as a residual body condition index) than deprived spiders. Additionally, well-fed spiders had significantly larger relative tuft size (scaled for body size). These data suggest that male body size, condition and a conspicuous male signaling trait vary with feeding history, and thus have the potential to serve as "honest indicators" of male quality in mate choice.
4149976|The long legs, compact body and hanging posture of many harvestmen are unique among terrestrial animals, but no quantitative analyses of locomotion have been conducted to determine if this extreme morphology is associated with novel mechanisms of locomotion. Here we have undertaken a three-dimensional kinematic analysis of running Leiobunum vittatum (Say 1821) using field-by-field analysis of high-speed video. The center of mass of harvestmen was found to undergo vertical and transverse displacements of unprecedented magnitude, but the pattern of displacements was consistent with those predicted by general models of energetic efficiency and dynamic stability of pedestrian locomotion. Because these models assume substantial roles for elastic energy storage in leg elements, elasticity is probably an important component of the locomotor mechanism in harvestmen, and we identify two skeletomuscular elements as possible springs.
3705122|Direct observation of colony behavior indicated that individual Mallos gregalis spiders exhibited a change in behavior related to activity level and position in the web. High-activity M. gregalis were found on the surface of the web while low-activity animals were found in the web interior. Individuals move to the web surface in the evening and into the web interior at midday. The activity of the colony was recorded through photoelectric means and was circadian with the highest level of activity occurring at night, the lowest level occurring about midday. The circadian rhythmicity was maintained in isolated M. gregalis and activity was recorded by similar photoelectric means. The data indicate that isolates fluctuated between high and low activity levels over several days. I suggested that such changes in individual activity level allow each animal to partition its behavior between self-maintenance and colony-maintenance behaviors. In comparing the social structure of M. gregalis to other social arthropods, I indicated that the level of organization is more similar to that of tent caterpillars than to the social Hymenoptera.
3706016|The new genus Iracema (Araneae, Theraphosidae, Theraphosinae) comprising the only species Iracema cabocla, from the Amazonic state of Roraima, Brazil, is described. The cladistic relationships of this genus within the Theraphosinae are analyzed.
24365314|We studied how forest stand characteristics influence spider assemblage richness and composition in a forested region of Hungary. Deciduous-coniferous mixed forests dominate in the rsg National Park. Thirty-five plots were established and sampled for spiders for three years in 70110 year-old stands with a continuum of tree species composition. Detailed background information was acquired for stand structure, tree species composition, forest-floor-related variables and spatial position of the plots. The effect of variables was analyzed by nonparametric multiplicative regression on rarefied spider species richness and by redundancy analysis on species composition. The relative importance of variable groups was assessed by variation partitioning. Spider species richness was positively and strongly affected by tree species richness, and the species composition of the spider assemblage was influenced by the proportion of the most important tree species. This study established the importance of tree species composition, but variance partitioning analysis also showed that tree species identity and forest floor variables together explain much of the variation. These findings may guide management and conservation efforts to maintain regional diversity of the spider fauna.
23610257|We investigated the mating biology of the previously unstudied central European spider Leviellus thorelli (Ausserer 1871) by staging laboratory mating trials using males and females of varying mating histories. Our aim was to seek common themes in sexual behaviors of the sexually size-monomorphic "zygiellid" spiders with their putatively close relatives, araneids and nephilids, which are relatively well studied with respect to sexual biology. We found L. thorelli mating biology to more closely resemble that of sexually size-monomorphic araneids than that of dimorphic nephilids. Unlike in nephilids with sexually conflicted adaptations, we found no evidence for genital damage or plugging in Leviellus Wunderlich 2004, although we found rare cases of half-eunuchs. We suggest that the mating system of L. thorelli spiders is determined by short female sexual attractiveness, reduced receptivity after mating and/or intensive mate guarding.
3705595|Members of the family Vaejovidae are the dominant species of scorpion in much of western North America, yet relatively little is known of the life histories in this group. In this paper I present data on growth rates of a single litter of Pseudouroctonus reddelli, a troglophilic vaejovid from central Texas. From an initial litter of 53 juveniles, one individual reached instar 8. Nearly 75% of this litter died during instar 2 or 3; this mortality rate was quite high, but consistent with other laboratory studies on vaejovid growth. A comparison with adults from this population suggested that P. reddelli mature at instar 9 for both males and females. Progression factors for two morphological measures during the early instars were more often below the predicted theoretical value of 1.26, while the progression factor for mass was close to the theoretical value of 2.0. No sexual dimorphism in growth rates was observed for instars 2-4. In comparison with other vaejovids, P. reddelli has a larger litter size, shorter instar 1 duration but comparable durations for instars 2-4, and lower morphological progression factors.
3705994|Field margins are susceptible to agro-chemical spray drift, and the effects of herbicide on spiders in semi-natural habitats have been little studied. In this experiment, an arable field margin was sprayed with three rates of glyphosate (90 g active ingredient/hectare (a.i/ha), 180 g a.i./ha & 360 g a.i./ha) and control plots left unsprayed. Spiders were sampled monthly (June-October) using a converted garden-vac and adult spiders were identified to species. A total of 23,393 spiders was sampled with the web-spinners representing more than 90% of the individuals. The effects of glyphosate application on the abundance of wandering and web-spinning prey-capture guilds, and the two most abundant species (Gonatium rubens and Lepthyphantes tenuis) were analyzed using ANOVA F tests. The highest rate of glyphosate consistently reduced the total number of spiders, the numbers of web-spinners, G. rubens and L. tenuis, but not numbers of wandering spiders. Changes in vegetation structure and microclimate caused by the glyphosate are implicated in the reduction of numbers of spiders in plots receiving the highest rate of glyphosate. We conclude that glyphosate drift at rates of more than 360 g a.i./ha (active ingredients per hectare) into arable field margins could result in significant losses of important arthropod predators in farmland and a reduction in spider biodiversity in agroecosystems.
3705608|Males of the dimorphic jumping spider, Maevia inclemens differ in both morphology and courtship behavior. Transition matrix analysis was conducted to determine what differences in male behavior and female receptivity were statistically significant. While males are both morphologically and behaviorally distinct, there was a high degree of overlap in the courtship sequences. The primary difference between males was the standing posture used by the tufted morph to attract female attention from a distance and the prone posture used by the gray male at close proximity to the female. When these behaviors were included in the analysis as separate behaviors, there was a significant difference between transition matrices for the male morphs. However, when these behaviors were combined and called "Phase I courtship" there were no significant differences between the morphs nor in the female responses to male behavior.
3706310|This study continues documentation of the adaptive radiation of species in the genus Tetragnatha in the Hawaiian archipelago. The four new species described here are similar in gross appearance, all being brown and elongate. They all build orb webs low down in shrubby vegetation, and have disjunct or abutting ranges. The new species are T. limu, T. lena, T. palikea, and T. uluhe. Different species occur in middle and high elevations, and in wet and dry habitats. Similar to other representatives of Hawaiian Tetragnatha, they are strictly nocturnal web-builders.
3706372|Most Argyrodes live in the webs of other spiders, stealing food from the host, scavenging small prey from the web or killing and eating the host. I observed the behavior of A. argentatus from Guam, where it is a frequent inhabitant of the large orb webs of Argiope appensa. I examined the proportion of time spent in different activities, whether behavior differed between the sexes and if population density of Argyrodes on a host web affects Argyrodes behavior. Argyrodes spent 55% of the time hanging immobile and inverted in the support strands at the webs' margin. This was significantly more time than that spent in stationary activity, forward movement at the web's margin, feeding, foraging on the sticky spiral or in aggressive interaction. Females foraged significantly more often than did males, though the sexes spent about the same amount of time feeding and in other activities. Females also engaged in more bouts of feeding and 21% of these bouts were at prey bundles prepared by the host. In contrast, males invariably foraged for small insects unnoticed by the host.
4129891|The parthenogenesis in Tityus trivittatus Kraepelin 1898, is confirmed for the first time, based on the progeny of three virgin females raised in isolation since their birth. The possible and occasional introduction of this species into Uruguay is discussed.
3705889|Diagnoses, descriptions, illustrations, and natural history data are presented for two new species of Nesticus spiders: N. nasicus from epigean habitats in southwestern North Carolina, and N. gertschi from a cave in eastern Tennessee. Nesticus nasicus appears to be the sister species of Nesticus brimleyi Gertsch, a cavedwelling species.
3705880|Sex ratio data from embryos and adults are compared in the social thomisid Diaea socialis. The relative proportions of males and females do not differ significantly between the two data sets, indicating that a sex ratio bias already exists at the time of fertilization. A statistical comparison with published data for the theridiid Anelosimus eximius shows a different ratio but similar pattern for the two types of data. A molecular procedure for determining whether the overproduction of females results from a bias in the sperm or differential success of sperm in fertilization is described.
20798585|Tricca lutetiana (Simon 1876) (Lycosidae) lives hidden underground and, thus, is not well known. Our objective was to document more fully basic information on reproduction, particularly copulation, in this species. We obtained and observed in the laboratory 86 individuals from the wild between 2006 and 2008. Vibratory and tactile communication is an important medium during sexual communication. We described unique movements of the mating male's legs during copulation, for the first time in the family Lycosidae. Adult females live for two years and, in their underground burrows, they produce one cocoon per season. They carry the cocoon, mostly using legs IV, and look after it for one month until the offspring leave. Maternal care for spiderlings lasts one week following the spiderlings' emergence.
3705105|A large colony of the spider Diguetia mojavea Gertsch was studies during the summer of 1980 at Indio, California. Unreported color markings for this species are described. The web structure, some aspects of the biology, mortality factors, behavior, and diet of D. mojavea are compared with other Diguetia spp. The influence of abiotic and biotic factors on web site selection are analyzed. The diet and fecundity of D. mojavea at the Indio study site were compared with individuals found scattered at lower densities in surrounding desert areas.
20788621|A review of the pseudoscorpion genus Oreolpium Benedict & Malcolm reveals two species, the type species O. nymphum Benedict & Malcolm 1978 from northwestern USA and O. semotum, new species, from southern Tasmania. Oreolpium is most similar to Neominniza Beier, Thaumatolpium Beier and Teratolpium Beier from South America, and to Protogarypinus Beier from southern Australia. These genera are confirmed as members of Garypinidae, and both species of Oreolpium are found to lack glandular setae on sternites VIVIII, which is an unusual feature for Garypinidae. Oreolpium demonstrates a remarkable bipolar distribution, similar to that of the pseudoscorpion groups Pseudotyrannochthoniidae, Pseudogarypidae and Syarininae, and to several water mite taxa.
23048779|Three Draconarius species collected from the Tiantangzhai National Forest Park, China are studied, including two new species, D. peregrinus sp. nov. and D. tiantangensis sp. nov. The male D. molluscus (Wang et al. 1990) is reported for the first time.
3705725|Ballooning spiders were captured during a full growing season over agricultural habitats in Missouri, USA, and one week in New South Wales, Australia, using sticky traps in Missouri and tow nets in Australia. More than 2,000 spiders in Missouri and more than 800 spiders in Australia were identified to family and estimates made of their live masses. Both aeronaut faunas are dominated by the family Linyphiidae, with the remaining families making up different proportions at the two sites. The vast majority of aeronauts weighed between 0.2 and 1.0 mg, with the mass-frequency distributions at both sites tailing off rapidly beyond 2.0 mg. The most massive Missouri aeronaut weighed 25.5 mg, and the most massive Australian aeronaut 19.1 mg. These are the first published extensive data on the live masses of ballooning spiders from the field and this is the first taxonomic analysis of a Southern Hemisphere aeronaut fauna.
4149979| Cobweb spiders (Theridiidae) exhibit a rich variety of web designs. Current knowledge of theridiid web architecture and evolution indicates that theridiid web design shows high within-taxon diversity and frequent convergence. Here we redescribe Achaearanea hieroglyphica (Mello-Leito 1940), including the first description of the male, and document in this species (1) an unusual web design and (2) two dramatically different type of webs. 
3705645|The wolf spider, Schizocosa avida (Walckenaer 1838) can utilize leg autotomy to successfully avoid capture by the scorpion, Centruroides vittatus (Say 1821). Leg autotomy was used successfully in 7 out of 43 encounters with a scorpion (16%). Spiders were captured and eaten by scorpions in 79% of the encounters. Two spiders (5%) escaped capture by means other than leg autotomy. Scorpions most often grasped spiders at their abdomen (49%), followed by the cephalothorax (35%) and leg (16%). Naive spiders (no previous experience with a scorpion), with intact legs or an autotomized leg, spent significantly more time (26-32 min out of a 60-min trial) on a filter paper disc that had come into previous contact with a scorpion as compared to spiders that had lost a leg in a successful escape from an encounter with the predator (10 min). This is an example of associative avoidance learning and is the first demonstration of this type of learning in response to previous experience with a predator in spiders.
4129847|The personal history of forgotten Japanese arachnologist, Kyukichi Kishida (1888-1968) is described for the first time based on information collected from the literature and through interviews with the late Prof. Seikichi Kishida (1931-2002), the fourth son of K. Kishida. A complete list of Kishida's works on spiders is provided. Much confusion resulted from the species and higher taxa descriptions or species designations made by Kishida. In many cases he first proposed a new name for an undescribed species found but left its description to his followers. Therefore, some species were really described by another person, while many nomina nuda were produced. A revision of each taxon with systematical and nomenclatural problems will be given in forthcoming parts of this serial (in preparation).
24365315|Based on percentages of undescribed species collected during intensive recent sampling campaigns in South America, tropical Africa, and the Caribbean, the current global total number of pholcid species is estimated to range from about 4,000 to 5,000. With the current rate of descriptions of about 570 pholcid species per decade, this suggests that a global inventory of the family could be completed within a few decades. However, I argue that a complete (or near-complete) inventory is neither realistic nor necessary and that knowing the majority of species of a particular group will answer most questions on that taxon's biology, while being a manageable task. At current rates of description, the majority of pholcid species might be known within 1020 years.
23070796|I describe oviposition sites and egg-hiding for four species of the family Gonyleptidae: Parampheres bimaculatus, Parampheres ronae (Gonyleptinae), Discocyrtus prospicuus, and Pachyloides thorellii (Pachylinae). Females of P. bimaculatus bury single eggs on the ground; the first record of this behavior among gonyleptids. Females of the other three species lay their eggs, singly or in clusters, on tree trunks or rock fissures. I found the eggs of P. ronae and D. prospicuus covered with debris, whereas eggs of P. thorellii were not. Females of D. prospicuus and P. thorellii lay their eggs over an extended period of time. At least for hemipterans, covering the eggs with debris works as a way to camouflage or prevent egg dehydration. I hypothesize that for the species used in this study, to spread isolated eggs in time and space may also protect them against predators and parasites.
4149982| Field observations suggested that the spider Enoploctenus cyclothorax (Bertkau 1880) avoids preying on the harvestman Mischonyx cuspidatus (Roewer 1913). The objectives of this study were to test the degree to which this prey avoidance occurred, and to test the effects of starvation on predation rates. Laboratory prey-predator encounters showed that 77.8% of the spiders rejected the harvestmen even after severe starvation, dying after sharing the same terrarium with a harvestman for 68.6  21.8 days. Two spiders fed on the harvestmen, but only after one week. In comparison, crickets given to the control group were all consumed after 13 hours. Prey recognition and subsequent avoidance, without conspicuous exudation of the scent glands (92.9% of the cases), occurred only after the harvestman was touched. We conclude that adult E. cyclothorax do avoid preying on M. cuspidatus, even after severe starvation, suggesting that the latter is recognized by the former by its chemical properties. 
3705924|A new species of Eutrombidium is described from larvae parasitizing 38 Ceraticelus emertoni (O. Pickard-Cambridge) (Araneae, Linyphiidae) and one Oxyopes salticus Hentz (Araneae, Oxyopidae) collected in Mississippi. Most host individuals (89%) were parasitized by only one larva, but as many as nine larvae were attached to one host. Adult and immature hosts of both sexes were parasitized. All larval mites were attached to the lateral molt sutures, mostly on the posterior prosoma. A review of the literature reveals 30 records of mite ectoparasitism of spiders among eight mite genera from five continents. Six additional records are reported herein. Two species listed as spider parasites, Allothrombium metae Boshell & Kerr (Acari, Trombidiidae) and Copriphis bristowi Finnegan (Acari, Laelapidae), are transferred to Clinotrombium and Ljunghia, respectively.
3705052|The larvae of two species of Euscorpius (Chactidae) were each allowed to settle on the backs of immobilized adults of 8 species of scorpions belonging to 4 families. The percentage of larvae still present after 12 hours was recorded. A significant correlation appeared between these results and the phylogenetic relationship, as suggested by Lamoral (1980),between Euscorpius and the other families.
3706042|The central African representatives of the genus Trabea are revised. Trabea straeleni (Roewer 1960) is revalidated as a good species and redescribed. Trabea heteroculata Strand 1913 is redescribed, and two new species from Malawi are added: Trabea nigristernis new species and Trabea setula new species. For comparison, a related southern African species, Trabea purcelli Roewer 1951, is redescribed. Some notes on the southern African Trabea ornatipalpis Russell-Smith 1982 are given together with a short zoogeographical discussion of the genus Trabea as a whole.
3706239|Trite planiceps Simon 1899, a common New Zealand jumping spider (Salticidae), lives in the cavities formed by rolled-up leaves of New Zealand flax (Phormium tenax) and similar plants. This study presents evidence that T. planiceps males use cues from females' draglines deposited on the outside of these rolled-up leaves when searching for females hidden from view inside. In choice tests, T. planiceps males preferentially associated with draglines deposited by conspecific females rather than areas lacking draglines. In contrast, females did not discriminate between areas with and without males' draglines and neither males nor females discriminated between areas with and without same-sex conspecifics' draglines. Additionally, T. planiceps males found openings and entered the cavities within rolled-up leaves occupied by females in nature sooner when leaves were tested within 24 hours of collecting (dragline cues deposited on leaves in nature) than after the same leaves had been cleaned and aged for seven days (dragline cues removed). Shorter latency to finding of leaf openings was restored after the same leaves were subsequently occupied by females in the laboratory (dragline cues replaced). The specific cues detected by T. planiceps males are probably pheromones loosely bound to females' draglines.
3706123|The predatory habit of three species of sac spiders, Chiracanthium inclusum, Hibana velox, and Trachelas volutus, on citrus leafminer, Phyllocnistis citrella, was investigated. Observation of spider activities during the photophase and the scotophase confirmed that these three species of sac spiders are nocturnal. They detect their prey by sensing vibrations of the substrate induced by the concealed prey. Movements of P. citrella larvae and prepupae appear to create vibrations of the leaf substrate, which then serve as cues for the spiders to locate them. The searching and prey capture behaviors of these spiders are discussed. Two methods of prey attack were exhibited. In one method, the spider punctures the mine, immobilizes the larva and then bites it and sucks the larval body fluid. In the second behavioral pattern, the spider makes a slit in the mine, uses its forelegs to pull the larva or prepupa out of the mine, holds the prey securely, and finally bites it and regurgitates digestive juices into the prey and ingests the predigested liquid tissue. The three species of sac spiders were found to start feeding on P. citrella larvae during the 2nd instar stage. Consumption increased as they developed to later instars. Maximum consumption for all species was recorded at the 4th instar. Although C. inclusum and T. volutus can complete their life cycle with P. citrella as their only food, H. velox was not able to develop to the adult stage. Results obtained from this study provide useful data to better understand the role of sac spiders in the overall management of P. citrella.
3706008|The involvement of spiders in decomposition food webs has the potential to affect agricultural productivity through two quite different types of interactions: (1) cascading, top-down effects of spider predation on rates of nutrient mineralization-spider-initiated trophic cascades in the detrital food web that could alter rates of decomposition and release of nutrients to plants; and (2) a bottom-up linkage, through spiders, between decomposition and grazing food webs-energy from the detrital web contributing to elevated spider densities, which in turn might reduce pests and enhance net primary production. Scant experimental evidence exists to refute or support either hypothesis. The first set of interactions is most likely to be of significance in no-till and conservation tillage farming. In theory, spiders have the potential to enhance productivity by increasing rates of mineralization, but theory also predicts that spiders, by preying on important detritivores and fungivores, depress rates of litter decomposition. Field experiments by Kajak and her colleagues have uncovered such negative effects of spiders in mown pastures. Although this negative effect could reduce plant growth, the expected time lags in most types of crops suggest that the overall impact of spiders on plant production will be determined more by the interactions comprising the second hypothesis. However, the later hypothesis, that bottom-up control processes in the decomposition web affect crop productivity via energy subsidies to spiders and other generalist predators in the grazing web, remains conjecture without clear experimental confirmation. This hypothesis should be tested in agroecosystems in which detritus-based food webs can feasibly be manipulated.
3705522|The wolf spider Pardosa lapidicina Emerton 1885 occupies cobble beaches above the tide line about Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island, USA, and migrates back and forth with the tides. To my knowledge this is the first explicit report of such behavior in a spider. The species is common, attaining densities of over 30 individuals/0.5 m of shoreline. The spiders are confined to the beach from April until November, and 33% or more of the population moves back and forth with diurnal tides during clear or warm weather. Individuals may migrate on one day but remain above the tide line on the next. Small numbers remain on the highest part of the beach through most or all of the winter; others retire into the adjacent coastal scrub. Spiders occupy both stretches of open beach and beach with fringing salt-marsh grass (Spartina alterniflora) beds. Those in the latter habitat do not migrate through Spartina after it has reached high density in June, remaining confined to the upper reaches of the beach. Numbers of P. lapidicina on open stretches of the beach exceed those in Spartina areas, and they appear to experience higher mortality in the latter area. Spiders in the low intertidal move frequently and hunt actively (cursorial strategy), those above the tideline move only 0.1 times as often and sun-bask frequently (sit-and-wait strategy). Individuals hunting in the low intertidal may capture more than one prey per day, including Diptera, Collembola, and amphipods.
3706338|Eustiromastix nativo new species is described and illustrated based on specimens collected from bromeliads in northeastern and southeastern Brazil.
41758980|Recent studies of nutrient additions to terrestrial ecosystems have focused on the "aerial" portion of the food web associated with living plants. These studies showed nutrient loading increased arthropod abundance and biomass, but decreased diversity. However, none of these studies explicitly examined nutrient loading effects on epigeal arthropods. To test nutrient loading effects on epigeal spiders and on individual species within a temperate-latitude grassland community, we used pitfall traps to sample spiders for four years within 24 large (314 m) plots in which we manipulated nutrients (NPK fertilizer) and plant litter (litter removed or left in place). We measured the diversity, abundance, biomass, and community structure responses of the spider community, and of wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and linyphiid spiders (Linyphiidae), as well as the abundance and biomass responses of the six most common species. We hypothesized increased nutrient loading would increase epigeal spider abundance and biomass but decrease diversity. Contrary to predictions, spider species richness, diversity, and biomass were not significantly affected by fertilization, while fertilization resulted in significantly increased abundance. Also contrary to predictions, plant litter did not affect any of these variables. Linyphiid spiders had the strongest responses to fertilization, with significantly increased abundance and biomass, and, contrary to predictions, increased species richness in fertilized plots. Wolf spiders responded more closely to predictions. Our results indicate that the epigeal spider community does not respond as would be predicted by biodiversity-productivity theory. This underscores the need to integrate the largely detritus-based epigeal community into current biodiversity-productivity theory.
3705731|This study shows that Deinopis spinosus Marx has at least two stereotyped attack behaviors, each elicited by different stimuli. In "backward" strikes the spider expands the net backward over its cephalothorax and away from the substrate; these strikes capture aerial prey. Vibratory stimuli are sufficient to elicit backward strikes. In "forward" strikes the spider expands the web downward and forward against the substrate; these strikes capture walking prey, and visual rather than vibratory stimuli are more effective. We describe the mechanisms underlying each type of strike and the extraordinary extensibility of the web.
3706235| A new fossil whipscorpion (Arachnida, Uropygi, Thelyphonida) is described from the Lower Cretaceous (Aptian) of the Crato Member of the Santana Formation, Cear Province, Brazil. This specimen is the first record of a Mesozoic thelyphonid, but it is too poorly preserved to be assigned to a family with any confidence. It is named Mesoproctus rowlandi new genus and species. 
41804581|The holotype female of Clubiona analis Thorell 1895 is examined, illustrated, and redescribed. The systematic position of the species is discussed, and a map with the type locality together with those of related species is provided.
3705406|Labelled scanning electron micrographs comprehensively illustrating the spinning fields of Deinopis (Deinopidae), Octonoba (Uloboridae), Araneus (Araneidae), Leucauge (Tetragnathidae), Latrodectus and Theridula (Theridiidae), Gaucelmus (Nesticidae), and Frontinella (Linyphiidae) are presented for the first time. Evidence from scanning electron micrographs supports the monophyly of orbweavers (Orbiculariae = Uloboridae, Deinopidae, Araneoidea), the araneid subfamily Cyrtophorinae and the close relationship between Nesticidae and Theridiidae. This evidence is presented in the context of guidelines for the logical taxonomic interpretation of spider spigot morphology. This morphological system, including gross and detailed morphology, location and number of spigots, and serial homology relationships, may be one of the most complex, yet under-utilized, taxonomic character systems in spiders.
4129868|Females of the orb-weaving spider Argiope bruennichi are very cannibalistic and regularly terminate copulations by aggressively attacking the male. Few males survive mating and they escape only if they mate no longer than 8 seconds on average. We speculated that the brief copulations of surviving males will not result in complete fertilization of all of a female's eggs and that multiple mating is necessary to compensate for that. Surprisingly, we found no difference in the proportion of hatched young in clutches of females that were experimentally assigned to mate once or twice. Even females that mated with one male for less than 10 seconds produced clutches with hatching rates no different than treatments with two matings. The question remains why males risk their lives by prolonging copulation duration. Possible causes and functions in the context of sexual selection are discussed.
24717321|A neotropical spider in the genus Janula Strand 1932 is reported as an opportunistic raider in damaged carton nests of the arboreal termite Nasutitermes ephratae. These spiders were shown to be attracted to ruptured nests and galleries from which they gather soldier termite prey that they bundle into silk-wrapped balls before suspending them away from the nests. Three species of Forcipomyia and one species of Atrichopogon (Ceratopogonidae, biting midges), rare associates of spiders, are reported as kleptoparasites on the dangling and immobilized termites.
25434323|Patterns of sperm usage in multiply-mated females have profound fitness consequences for males, and create strong selective pressure on male behavior. In the cooperative theridiid spider Anelosimus studiosus Hentz 1850 adult males are tolerated in females' webs, and females have been observed to mate multiply with different males. In this experiment, virgin females were mated with two different males on consecutive days under controlled conditions to determine paternity patterns and behavioral responses of males to non-virgin females. The paternity of broods was analyzed using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPDs). Fifteen broods were analyzed and complete first male sperm precedence was found. Mating behavior differed between first and second males with the first males attempting fewer intromissions, but having a longer total time of intromission. This suggests that the second males are either prevented from normal copulation, or are reacting to the different condition of the females. The sperm precedence pattern is discussed with respect to its ramifications for male behavior, juvenile inclusive fitness, and the evolution of cooperative behavior.
3705861|Previous studies have revealed that matings of the spider Nephila clavata are concentrated just after the final molt of females. We determined the existence of a chemical cue eliciting male mating behavior in this particular period by three experiments. First, an immobile spider anesthetized with CO
3705357|The copulation duration (CD) of 99 copulations of Lycosa malitiosa recorded within a wide range of temperatures was analyzed. Copulation duration (minutes) varied inversely with temperature (Tm, in degrees Celsius). The best mathematical function statistically adjusted to the values obtained was: CD = 212.73 - (4.92) Tm. There was no influence of copulatory experience of the male on CD; a possible influence of humidity on CD is not clear.
3705966|The Dominican Republic amber fossil spider record is examined and hypotheses generated concerning the Recent Hispaniolan spider fauna which is, at present, poorly known. The families Cyrtaucheniidae, Microstigmatidae, Nemesiidae, Ochyroceratidae, Tetrablemmidae, Palpimanidae, Hersiliidae, Symphytognathidae s.l., Anapidae, Mysmenidae, and Hahniidae, known from the fossil, but not Recent, fauna are predicted to be components of the Recent fauna of Hispaniola. Based on a terrestrial invertebrate species longevity of less than ten million years, the presence of endemic and non-endemic species, and the assumption that Hispaniola has suffered no major ecological disruption that would cause the amber lineages to become extinct, the following hypotheses are made: Filistatidae and Desidae colonized Hispaniola after the Miocene amber formation; Drymusidae, Amaurobiidae, and Deinopidae were present on Hispaniola during the Tertiary, but avoided capture, or have yet to be found in the amber; and Scytodidae, Oecobiidae, Uloboridae, Dictynidae and Clubionidae have colonized Hispaniola since the Miocene amber formation but these families, which were present on Hispaniola during the period of amber formation, contain undiscovered endemic species.
3706378|Natural history, including phenology, circadian activity, mimicry, reproduction, prey specialization and karyotype was studied in the zodariid spiders Trygettus sexoculatus, Zodarion cyrenaicum, Z. lutipes and Z. nitidum (Zodariidae, Zodariinae) found in Israel. The spiders were active throughout the year, with maximum seasonal activity in the summer. Two distinct reproductive periods were found for Z. cyrenaicum and Z. nitidum, one in May and the other in November. Individuals of all species studied were observed hunting only in the morning. Three zodariid species were found to generally mimic ants: Trygettus sexoculatus mimicked tiny yellow-brown ants such as Monomorium niloticum, Z. cyrenaicum mimicked large black ants such as Messor arenarius, and Z. lutipes mimicked large yellow-brown ants such as Camponotus fellah. The zodariids observed were able to subdue various ant species, from the subfamilies Formicinae, Myrmicinae and Dolichoderinae. Trygettus sexoculatus appeared to specialize on Monomorium sp., Z. lutipes on Camponotus sp. and Z. cyrenaicum on Messor sp. ants, i.e., the same ant species they imitate. When bitten by zodariids, Formicinae and Dolichoderinae ants were paralyzed much more quickly than Myrmicinae. Female zodariid paralyzed ants faster than juveniles and males. Courtship and mating were observed only in Z. lutipes and were found to be similar to other Zodarion species. The mean fecundity for all three Zodarion species ranged from 38-45 eggs per egg sac, thus being higher than reported in central European species. Females of all three species guarded egg sacs inside of their retreats. Karyotypes of studied Zodarion spiders were similar to the karyotypes of other zodariid spiders in terms of the diploid number (26 in Z. cyrenaicum and 25 in both Z. lutipes and Z. nitidum), sex chromosome systems and morphology of chromosomes. Most of the data indicate that the Zodarion species of this study have a close affinity to a group of Western European Zodarion species.
24717337|The fossil whip spider Electrophrynus mirus Petrunkevitch 1971 (Arachnida: Amblypygi: Electrophrynidae) from the Mexican Chiapas amber (Miocene: ca 1520 Ma) is redescribed. Its original referral to an extinct family and genus based on an unusual configuration of the pedipalp is shown to be based on a misinterpretation. The family Electrophrynidae has already been synonymized with Phrynidae. Although E. mirus closely resembles modern phrynids, a key diagnostic character relating to the dorsal pattern of spines on the pedipalp patella is not preserved. Since this incomplete fossil cannot be meaningfully compared either to modern genera or to other whip spiders in Neotropical amber, we believe the pragmatic solution is to treat E. mirus as a nomen dubium.
4129864|Spider silk has attracted the attention of many scientists because of its desirable physical properties. Most of this attention has been devoted to dragline silk, a thread that has high tensile strength, high strain and ultra-low weight. To help understand structure-property relationships in spider silks, the tensile behavior of egg sac (cylindrical gland) silk of Araneus diadematus Clerck 1757 was compared with dragline (major ampullate gland) and silkworm silks. In addition, stress-strain curves of egg sac silk were simulated by a spring-dashpot model, specifically a Standard Linear Solid (SLS) model. The SLS model consists of a spring in series with a dashpot and in parallel with another spring, resulting in three unknown parameters. The average stress-strain curve of fibers from five different egg sacs could be accurately described by the model. Closer examination of the individual stress-strain curves revealed that in each egg sac two populations of fibers could be distinguished based on the parameters of the SLS model. The stress-strain curves of the two populations clearly differed in their behavior beyond the yield point and were probably derived from two different layers within the egg sac. This indicates that silks in the two layers of A. diadematus egg sacs probably have different tensile behavior.
3706178| This paper presents the description of the new species, Acrographinotus mitmaj (Opiliones, Gonyleptidae, Pachylinae). It can be easily distinguished from its congeners by: male femur IV long and spiny, devoid of the rows of tubercles and/or apophyses characteristic of other nominal species in the genus; further, A. mitmaj new species bears a less developed median apophysis on the 3
3706093|Mundochthonius singularis, a troglomorphic species from Fly Cave in Fremont County, Colorado, is described. This is the first cavernicolous pseudoscorpion to be reported from the state. It is compared with M. montanus, the local epigean species, for which an emended description is given.
3706179|Five new species of Solifugae are described from North America: Eremobates chihuaensis, Eremobates gerbae, Hemerotrecha sevilleta, Hemerotrecha cornuta, Eremochelis oregonensis as well as the females of Eremocosta gigasella (Muma, 1970), and Eremobates polhemusi Muma & Brookhart, 1988.
3705802|The African social eresid spiders Stegodyphus mimosarum and S. dumicola exhibit extreme intra- as well as interspecific social tolerance. S. mimosarum individuals transferred over more than 20 km were accepted and immediately cooperated in strange conspecific colonies. In a laboratory experiment, adult females of both species formed mixed-species groups that spun and fed together.
3705753|In the social eresid spider Stegodyphus mimosarum, most individuals under natural conditions live in colonies containing up to several hundred individuals. Female size at maturity is reduced in large colonies as is the number of eggs produced per female. This reduction of female fecundity seems to result from increasing competition over food as the number of females in a colony increases, and is interpreted in terms of a "constraint" model for group living proposed by Emlen (1984).
25434330|The potential distribution of the harvestman Geraeocormobius sylvarum Holmberg 1887 (Opiliones, Gonyleptidae, Gonyleptinae) from Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, is modeled using the presence-only, GIS-based method Bioclim. The model was run on 2.5 min resolution climate layers using 19 derived bioclimatic variables. The bioclimatic profile of the species is described, and presumable limiting factors in each part of the range are discussed. Modeled distribution of G. sylvarum shows a remarkable correspondence to the Alto Paran Atlantic forest ecoregion, with a marginal presence around the Araucaria forests and in gallery/flood forests towards the Southwest. Results support the 650 km yungas-Mesopotamia disjunction, as previously proposed, and reveal that localities in northwestern Argentina have extreme values concerning seasonality parameters with remarkably decreased rainfall in winter. Evidence suggesting that the disjunct pattern may have been derived by antropic introduction is briefly discussed.
3705469|Spiders of the genus Lutica from 19 populations in southern California and Baja California, including all the California Channel Islands except Anacapa, were compared electrophoretically on the basis of variability at 15 gene loci. Fixed allelic differences clearly define two species: new species A [Santa Barbara and Ventura Counties, northern Channel Islands (San Miguel, Santa Rosa, Santa Cruz), southern Channel Islands (San Nicolas, Santa Barbara, Santa Catalina)] and new species C [Guerrero Negro, central Baja California], while morphological features define two others: new species B [Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego Counties, northern Baja California] and clementea [San Clemente Island]. Phylogenetic analysis of the electrophoretic data using a variety of methods revealed that evolutionary rates among the populations sampled have been very unequal. The phylogenetic relationships among populations consistently supported by the electrophoretic cladograms generally correspond with the geological history of the Channel Islands and adjacent mainland and suggest certain likely colonization events involving some of the islands.
3706366|The distribution, abundance, and diversity of wolf spider (Lycosidae) assemblages were investigated via pitfall trapping at three sites near Granite Reef Dam outside Phoenix, Arizona. These three sites featured different moisture and temperature regimes due to the dam, which diverts the Salt River into an urban canal system. Site 1 was a natural riparian area above the dam along the Salt River, Site 2 was adjacent to a man-made diversion canal, and Site 3 was adjacent to the dry riverbed below the dam. Four lycosid species were found at Site 1, with Pardosa vadosa Barnes 1959 dominating. Two species each, though very few total individuals, were found at Sites 2 and 3. Simpson's index of diversity (of lycosids and of all other terrestrial arthropods) was higher for Site 1 than for Sites 2-3. Prey availability was comparable among sites, but Site 1 had significantly higher relative soil moisture levels and less extreme substrate and air temperature conditions than did Sites 2 and 3. Spider abundance at each site was independent of prey availability, but instead depended chiefly upon moisture and temperature regimes among sites. The results suggest that wolf spiders experienced a significant effect from disturbance of their habitat by the dam, and that abiotic habitat attributes such as moisture and temperature may be more important for wolf spider abundance than prey availability alone in desert riparian systems.
20617606|Reports of scorpions on epiphytic bromeliads in temperate forests are scarce. Here we present some ecological aspects of this animal-plant interaction in three different types of temperate forests (pine, pine-oak and oak forest) in Oaxaca, Mexico. From 2005 to 2007, we collected 373 bromeliads belonging to 10 species, and each plant was defoliated in search of scorpions. We found 35 individuals of Vaejovis franckei Sissom 1989 in 19 bromeliads: 22 specimens in Tillandsia carlos-hankii with 21% occupancy and an average abundance of 2.1  1.9 individuals/plant; 12 specimens in T. prodigiosa (10% occupancy, average abundance = 1.6  0.6) and one specimen in T. calothyrsus (3% occupancy, average abundance = 1  0.0). Pine-oak forest had 29 individuals; pine forest, 4 individuals; and oak forest, 2 individuals. Percentage of occupancy differed among localities, while average abundance remained the same. Vaejovis franckei preferred T. carlos-hankii and pine-oak forest, which was correlated with the percentage of occupancy but not with the average abundance.
4149975| A new genus of Ideoroncidae, Pseudalbiorix, is described from Central America, and is found to consist of four species: the type species P. reddelli (Muchmore 1982), new combination from southern Mexico, P. veracruzensis (Hoff 1945), new combination from Belize, Guatemala and southern Mexico, and P. muchmorei Barba & Prez, new species and P. armasi Barba & Prez, new species from western Cuba. Pseudalbiorix reddelli and P. veracruzensis are transferred from the genus Albiorix. Members of this genus differ from all other ideoroncids principally in the morphology of the chelal externodistal condyle. All postembryonic stages of P. reddelli are described. 
3705253|It is difficult to define the family Theridiidae. The 27 genera of Theridiidae represented north of Mexico can be separated by a key. There is a checklist to the 229-234 species of Theridiidae from north of Mexico.
23610278|Spiders in many families are capable of locomotion on the surface of water, a capability that, at its simplest, requires only a strongly hydrophobic integument and the same postures and motions that are used on land. Specialized aquatic gaits, in contrast, are only characteristic in the Pisauridae, Trechaleidae, Ctenidae, and Tetragnathidae. They are less common features of aquatic locomotion in Lycosidae, are only occasionally encountered in Salticidae, and are rare in Araneidae. Most of what is known about the biomechanics of these specialized gaits comes from research on fishing spiders (Pisauridae) and, because the physics and hydrodynamics are similar in many respects, on water striders (Insecta: Hemiptera: Gerridae). In what follows, I have concentrated on the biomechanics of propulsion in water-walking spiders and water striders because propulsion on the air-water interface was mysterious until the 1990s when researchers began seeking answers to the central question: What provides the resistance against which a spider or water strider pushes when it sweeps its legs backward? The answers, now nearly complete, include a) dimple distortion, b) drag, c) generation of vortices, and d) nanoscale brushing of the water surface by hydrophilic hairs.
41758976|Multivariate analyses of morphological characters provide strong evidence that a highland Vaejovis from the Sierra de los Ajos, a Madrean 'sky island' in northern Sonora, Mexico, represents a distinct new species of the V. vorhiesi group. This new species is described and compared to other geographically adjacent species of the V. vorhiesi group, named V bandido, and brief notes on ecology are provided. Results from this study provide evidence that multivariate analysis of morphological characters is a powerful tool to delimit small and otherwise cryptic scorpion species.
3706083| It has been suggested by several authorities that at least one species of spider of the genus Theotima, family Ochyroceratidae, occurring in tropical regions in South Africa, the Caribbean and Asia may be parthenogenetic. Theotima minutissimus is particularly abundant in the tropical rainforest leaf litter on El Yunque, Puerto Rico. While many hundreds of specimens have been collected over many years, none has been a male. To examine the possibility that this small species,  0.9 mm body length, is parthenogenetic, live specimens were collected and maintained in the laboratory. A second generation spiderling, raised separately, produced viable progeny. 
3705790|The pseudoscorpion, Cordylochernes scorpioides, frequently occurs under the elytra of the giant harlequin beetle, Acrocinus longimanus. Here, we assess four hypotheses/scenarios which have been proposed to account for this phenomenon: (1) accidental boarding; (2) obligate symbiosis; (3) phagophily, and (4) phoretic dispersal. Field and laboratory observations of embarkation behavior clearly refute the accidental boarding hypothesis. Contrary to the obligate symbiosis scenario, pseudoscorpion offspring production does not occur on the beetle and the primary habitat of C. scorpioides is decaying trees. The phagophily hypothesis, i.e., that pseudoscorpions mount harlequins for the primary purpose of preying upon the beetles' phoretic mites, is also not supported. Pseudoscorpions collected from trees were found to be in better nutritional condition than beetle-riding individuals. Finally, evidence from a companion study supports the dispersal hypothesis, and also indicates that large male C. scorpioides defend beetles' abdomens as strategic sites for intercepting and inseminating dispersing females.
25434329|Beating tray and sweep net samples from apple and pear orchards in south-central Washington State were used to obtain information on life history and phenology of orchard-associated spiders. Cardboard shelters placed in the orchards in the fall and collected during the winter yielded information on spider overwintering. Data were obtained for 43 species in 28 genera and 12 families. The eight most abundant species were Pelegrina aeneola (Curtis 1892), Meioneta fillmorana (Chamberlin 1919), Oxyopes scalaris Hentz 1845, Theridion neomexicanum Banks 1901, Misumenops lepidus (Thorell 1877), Xysticus cunctator Thorell 1877, Philodromus cespitum (Walckenaer 1802), and Sassacus papenhoei Peckham & Peckham 1895. Each was represented by more than 690 specimens. Salticidae, Philodromidae, and Linyphiidae were represented by the largest number of species. Most species appear to have univoltine life cycles in the study area. Species matured at different times during the season between spring and fall. Twenty-seven species utilized carboard shelters for overwintering, but some common spiders failed to do so and apparently use alternative locations. Some species overwintered in a broad range of developmental stages, whereas other species overwintered in only one or two instars.
24717327|Predators often adopt strategies to capture prey that reflect both the characteristics of the prey and their own hunger level. In generalist spiders of the family Salticidae, predatory behavior typically consists of four phases: orientation towards the prey, pursuit, crouching, and jumping to capture. In this study, we conducted laboratory experiments in order to determine whether predatory strategies change according to prey type and hunger level in Corythalia albicincta (F. O. Pickard-Cambridge 1901). We used adult specimens of both sexes to evaluate variation in capture jump distance, time spent on each predatory stage and attack efficiency, in terms of prey capture. Jump distance was greater with prey that can more readily escape (crickets and flies), compared to fly larvae. The duration of both latency and orientation was greater in larval trials than in the cricket and fly trials. Corythalia albicincta spent less time in a crouching position with flies and the total duration of the predation process was shorter with flies than with crickets or larvae. Numbers of failures, defined as the number of failed attacks before a spider captures a prey item in the test, was higher in spiders that had been starved for one day compared to those that had been starved for 7 and 15 days. Predatory strategies were modified according to movement patterns and prey speed, while hunger level affected predation efficiency.
3705640|Pacific salticids of the genera Ascyltus, Bavia, Cosmophasis, Flacillula, Frigga, Ligurra, Plexippus, Thorelliola and Trite are discussed. Eleven new species are described: Ascyltus similis, Ascyltus rhizophora, Bavia fedor, Bavia sonsorol, Cosmophasis arborea, Cosmophasis lami, Cosmophasis muralis, Flacillula nitens, Ligurra opelli, Thorelliola dumicola and Trite ponapensis. Illustrations and distribution records are presented for the new species. Drawings of four additional species of Trite are included.
4129837|The pardosine genus Passiena Thorell 1890 is redefined and relimited. Passiena has excellent diagnostic characters, in particular the male pedipalp that carries a unique group of soft spicules on the distal part of the palea. The female of the type species, Passiena spinicrus Thorell 1890 from Malaysia, is illustrated for the first time. A new species, P. torbjoerni, is described from Thailand. All specimens of Passiena were collected from the ground layer of or nearby dense jungle or bush, an exceptional habitat for Oriental Pardosinae. Males of P. torbjoemi carry modified setae on the ventral side of the abdomen, similar to Hygrolycosa rubrofasciata (Ohlert 1865) and Pardosa sphagnicola (Dahl 1908), where they play an important role in the courtship behavior of males. Five African species currently listed in Passiena do not conform to the generic diagnosis as provided here. Three of these show clear affinities with Pardosa C.L. Koch 1847 and are consequently transferred from Passiena: Pardosa praepes (Simon 1885); Pardosa elegantula (Roewer 1959) new combination; and Pardosa upembensis (Roewer 1959) new combination. Passiena auberti (Simon 1898) and Passiena albipalpis Roewer 1959 are considered incertae sedis pending a generic revision of African Lycosidae as they cannot be placed with certainty into any other lycosid genus.
4129804| We tested three hypotheses concerning the function of stabilimenta in the orb weaver Gasteracantha cancriformis: 1) warning to large animals that might accidentally destroy the web; 2) prey attraction; and 3) camouflage. One prediction of the warning hypothesis (but not of the others), that less exposed webs should have fewer stabilimentum tufts, was verified: very few tufts occurred on the peripheral lines of small webs. On the other hand, a prediction of the prey attraction hypothesis, that webs with more stabilimentum tufts should also have more captured prey, was only confirmed in one sub sample, and further analysis indicated that spider size rather than number of stabilimentum tufts best explained the presence of prey. An additional observation not in accord with prey attraction was that resting webs, which lacked sticky silk for prey capture, nevertheless had abundant stabilimentum tufts. Finally, the number of stabilimentum tufts was lower in the webs of white (as opposed to yellow or orange) spiders, contradicting a prediction of the camouflage hypothesis. The strongest conclusions from our results are support for the warning function, and lack of support for the prey attraction function. /// Pusimos a prueba tres hiptesis concernientes a la funcin de los estabilimentos en la araa Gasteracantha cancriformis: 1) advertencia a animales grandes que podran destruir accidentalmente la red; 2) atraccin de presas; y 3) camuflaje. Se cumpli una prediccin de la hiptesis de advertencia (pero no de las dems) de que las redes menos expuestas deberan presentar menos estabilimentos: se observaron muy pocos estabilimentos en las lneas perifricas de redes pequeas. Por otra parte, la prediccin de la hiptesis de atraccin de presas, de que redes con ms estabilimentos deberan presentar ms presas capturadas, slo se cumpli en una submuestra y anlisis posteriores mostraron que el tamao de la araa y no el nmero de estabilimentos explic mejor la presencia de presas. Otra observacin que no apoya la hiptesis de atraccin de presas fue haber encontrado redes de descanso, las cuales carecieron de un espiral de captura, con un importante nmero de estabilimentos. Finalmente, el nmero de estabilimentos fue menor en las redes de araas blancas (en relacin a las amarillas o las anaranjadas), contradiciendo la prediccin de la hiptesis de camuflaje. Nuestros resultados apoyan la hiptesis de advertencia y no la de atraccin de presas. 
25067809|This study examines species in a relatively diverse lineage of Ariamnes spiders in the Hawaiian archipelago, where they appear to have undergone adaptive radiation, with several species generally co-occurring at any one locality. The lineage was initially described by the single species A. corniger Simon 1900. The Hawaiian representatives of this lineage are characterized by variably elongate abdomens and are mostly free-living, at least as adults, although a number have been found to occur, at least facultatively, as kleptoparasites on the webs of other spiders. These spiders are all nocturnal. Their phylogenetic affinities with other representatives of the genus outside the Hawaiian Islands are unclear. Ten new species are described here: A. kahili, A. huinakolu, A. makue, A. uwepa, A. poele, A. melekalikimaka, A. alepeleke, A. laau, A. waikula, and A. hiwa. These species, together with the single described species Ariamnes corniger, include all known representatives of the lineage in the Hawaiian Islands. Different species occur in middle and high elevations and in wet and dry habitats.
3705596|Orb-webs constructed by the superfamilies Deinopoidea and Araneoidea share a common architecture, but differ in both their orientation and the type of capture thread that they contain. This study uses transformational analyses to determine which web features these clades share and which features are unique to the Araneoidea and may be associated with changes in web orientation and capture thread composition. It examines relationships among spider weight, the cross sectional area of capture thread axial fibers, and features of orb-web architecture in four species of the Family Uloboridae that construct horizontal orb-webs containing cribellar thread and four araneoid species that construct vertical webs containing adhesive capture thread. In both groups, spider weight was positively related to web area and the number of radii in a web were positively related to the number of spirals. In uloborids, weight was negatively related to the number of spirals per web area and axial fiber cross sectional area was positively related to the number of radii per capture spiral turn. In araneoids, spider weight was positively related to axial fiber cross sectional area. The number of radii per capture spiral turn was greater in uloborid webs, and the weight-specific axial fiber cross sectional area was greater in araneoid webs. Many of the features that distinguish araneoid orb-webs appear to equip them to absorb the greater forces of prey strike that are associated with a vertical orb-web orientation.
25434285|Microtityus (Microtityus) franckei sp. nov. is described from both male and female specimens from the transition zone of the Tayrona Natural National Park, located in the Caribbean region of Colombia. The new species, which is the first of the genus reported from Colombia, is characterized, among other features, by reductive neobothriotaxy on the pedipalp femur and chela. The new species raises to 25 the number of known species of Microtityus, ten of which are present in continental South America. A revised diagnosis of the genus, a species check-list, and some biogeographic and taxonomic considerations are included.
20788615|For spiders, morphological differentiation within genitalic traits is the main diagnostic criterion of a species. Beside some well-described exceptions of genitalic polymorphism and crypticity, spider genitalic variation is seldom quantitatively analyzed. Using geometric morphometrics landmark analysis, we report clear evidence of quantitative interspecific divergence and intraspecific variation in the genital shape of three species of the genus Paratrechalea (P. azul, P. ornata and P. galianoae). The genitalic species recognition was very consistent with our quantitative data for both sexes. Interspecific variation suggested a character displacement pattern between two syntopic populations of P. azul and P ornata, and also a possible case of species crypticity in P. ornata that will involve splitting the Uruguayan populations from the Brazilian ones.
3704938|The genus Leiobunum (Arachnida: Phalangida) contains several rather well defined species groups which until now have not been treated as such. The primary characteristic used as a basis for a taxonomic revision of the genus is the morphology of the male intromittent organ. Secondary characteristics include male pedipalps, genital operculum and other body features. This paper describes the "Bulbate Species" of Leiobunum which contains only the "Politum Group." It includes descriptions of L. politum Weed, L. bracchiolum, sp. nov., and L. holtae, sp. nov. Consideration is also given to the possible phylogenetic relationships of these species.
3706293| Diplocentrus lindo new species, from west Texas, USA, central Nuevo Lon and northern Coahuila, Mxico is described. This description is based on the morphological examination of 199 specimens from nine Texas counties and the Mexican states of Coahuila and Nuevo Lon. This species represents the third Diplocentrus known from the state of Texas, has a wider distribution than D. diablo and D. whitei, and it exhibits a marked range in adult size. 
23070787|Female-biased sexual size dimorphism is common in arthropods, apparently driven by fecundity selection in females. Selective pressures that limit growth are less often considered. One factor that researchers have rarely considered is the possible role of energetic limits on growth. The orb weaving spider Nephila clavipes (Linnaeus 1767) is extremely sexually size dimorphic. Males are "normal" sized spiders and females are up to ten times longer, having passed through several additional juvenile instars. This extreme size dimorphism presents the opportunity to test for intrinsic energetic costs of gigantism. Prior studies have shown that males successfully reach maturity on a range of diets, while female dietary requirements increase rapidly with increasing size. We here examine the effects of variation in food availability on juvenile female development by randomly assigning spiderlings from six different families (from six distinct populations) to quantitatively varying but qualitatively identical diets. Based upon field observations, we expected that dietary restrictions would have the greatest effect on duration of instars, particularly later instars, and on instar number (because longer total development would lead to curtailment of growth at an earlier stage), with relatively little effect on growth per molt. Because the diets ranged from higher than mean intake observed in the field to well below mean intake, we expected females to mature at a wide range of instars (and sizes). Our results support the functional relationship among food intake, instar duration, and fixed growth per molt (although growth per molt was less canalized than suggested by field observations). However, we observed no variation in number of instars, and we suggest that these data provide additional support for the importance of rare, large prey in the diets of web-building spiders.
4129877|Phalangium opilio L. is a polyphagous predator frequently found in agricultural habitats. Although the potential importance of P. opilio's feeding on pests has been recognized, little is known about its activity patterns or its within-plant distribution in crops. We determined diel activity patterns and microspatial distribution in small, fenced arenas in soybean fields. The fenced arenas allowed us to track known numbers of particular size categories of P. opilio for each 24 h trial. Phalangium opilio were separated into the following categories based on body size and sex: medium-sized nymphs, large-sized nymphs, adult females and adult males. Medium-sized nymphs occupy the bottom and middle portions of plants regardless of time of day; they remain still during the day, but they exhibit leg palpating behavior from 21:00-01:00 h. Large-sized nymphs rest in the bottom and middle portions of plants during the day, but they walk and palpate on the ground from 21:00-01:00 h. Adult females rest in the bottom, middle and top portions of plants during the day, and they walk and palpate on the ground from 21:00-01:00 h. Adult males remain stationary in the bottom, middle and top portions of plants during the day, but they walk on the ground from 21:00-04:00 h.
3705465|Wolf spiders were sampled from sandy and grassy substrates every month for one year at Archbold Biological Station, Lake Placid, Florida, from December 1981 through November 1982. It was found that the faunas were different in species composition, even though they were within a few meters of one another. Light-colored species, such as Lycosa ceratiola and Lycosa osceola, were more abundant on or restricted to the sandy surface, while darker colored species, such as Lycosa miami, Lycosa annexa, Lycosa abdita and Schizocosa crassipes were more abundant on or restricted to, the grassy substrate. A total of twelve species of lycosids were collected.
25067823|Two allopatric species of Coryphasia (Araneae: Salticidae), both described for the first time in this study, have been found associated with Bromeliaceae in distinct phytophysiognomies (e.g., inselbergs, highland forests and restingas) from southeastern Brazil. In this study, we investigated whether these salticids were associated specifically with bromeliads, and whether they used bromeliads of different species and sizes in distinct geographic regions. The Coryphasia species were rarely found outside bromeliads, occupied larger bromeliad species among those available, and were generally more frequent on bromeliads in open areas, such as inselbergs on mountain tops. The two Coryphasia species were observed submerging in phytotelmata, possibly as an anti-predatory behavior. The patterns of spatial and microspatial distribution and the submergence behavior of these species were similar to those of other bromeliad-dwelling salticids, which suggests a convergence among spiders that live on bromeliads.
3706020|We evaluated several formulae to estimate the capture area (the area of the web covered by capture spirals) and the mesh height (the distance between capture spirals) of orb webs constructed by Argiope keyserlingi Karsch. The accuracy of the various formulae was estimated through regression analyses. Accordingly, we propose two new formulae specifically suited for asymmetric orb webs, which provide accurate estimates of capture area and mesh height.
23048798|Spitting spiders eject silk and glue from their fangs when attacking prey. The ejection is complete in less than 35 ms and involves high-frequency fang oscillations that can approach 1700 Hz. Because of Newtonian physical constraints, these oscillations, which cause the spit to be dispersed in a zigzag pattern, could not occur at such high frequencies if the fangs themselves were not very small. We hypothesized that allometric neoteny, in which the developmental rate of a structure is retarded relative to the changing overall size of the growing individual, could explain (in an ontological sense) the small fangs of adult spitting spiders. We measured the fangs, chelicerae, carapaces, and sterna of many sizes of spitting spiders, Scytodes thoracica (Latreille 1802a), brown recluse spiders, Loxosceles reclusa Fertsch & Mulaik 1940, and wolf spiders, Varacosa avara (Keyserling 1877), to discover whether the fangs of spitting spiders grow unusually slowly. Using sternum width as our proxy for spider size, we found that the carapaces of spitting spiders grow disproportionately fast but that the spiders' chelicerae and fangs grow at the same rate as their sterna. The growth patterns in L. reclusa and in V. avara differed both from each other and from S. thoracica. We evaluate these patterns and conclude that the diminutive fangs of adult spitting spiders do not constitute an instance of allometric neoteny.
41804583|For many spiders, sex pheromones associated with female silk are important stimuli that elicit male searching and courtship behaviors. In that context, female sexual receptivity and chemical attractiveness can depend on age and reproductive status. In Paratrechalea ornata (Mello-Leito 1943) (Araneae: Trechaleidae), males offer females a nuptial gift (a prey wrapped in silk) during courtship. Gift construction is elicited by the presence of female silk, and silk attractiveness is influenced by female age, increasing from 20 days after the female reaches adulthood. Our goal was to investigate whether female age affects female sexual receptivity and to discuss the relationship between receptivity and silk attractiveness. We exposed 26 virgin females, from 2 to 28 days after the final molt, to males offering a nuptial gift. Female sexual receptivity was age dependent and increased with adult female age. Females over 15 days from adulthood accepted more gifts than younger females, but the latency of female gift acceptance was not affected by female age. Female sexual receptivity is synchronized with chemical attractiveness, suggesting that females' pheromone release is adjusted at a particular mating age. We suggest that young virgin females may invest more in foraging and maturing gonads than in mating, accounting for the delay in receptivity and chemical attractiveness.
23048792|The arachnid order Opiliones, and the suborder Cyphophthalmi in particular, have recently been used to test biogeographical patterns in Southeast Asia due to their ancient age and extremely low vagility. Here we report the first Cyphophthalmitwo juvenilesknown from Mindanao in the southern Philippine Archipelago, and we place them in a molecular phylogeny to test biogeographical hypotheses for their colonization of that island. Five molecular markers were sequenced from one specimen, three from the other, and these sequences were added to a previously completed phylogenetic analysis. The specimens were recovered as members of a clade found almost exclusively on Borneo. Their deep placement within this clade suggests a very old origin and colonization that perhaps involved the mysterious landmass now underlying Mindanao's Zamboanga Peninsula. This species prompts new questions about the abilities of Southeast Asian Cyphophthalmi (Stylocellidae) to disperse and colonize, and it emphasizes how much remains to be understood about the geological history of the Philippines.
3706018| Tropical areas with favorable climatic conditions, high prey availability and large prey size are assumed to favor sociality in spiders. Notwithstanding, the three social species of Stegodyphus (Eresidae) inhabit arid and semi-arid habitats with marked daily and seasonal variation in climate. The nests of the social spider Stegodyphus mimosarum Pavesi commonly occur in dry Acacia savanna in southern Africa. We investigated the abiotic conditions to which the nests of S. mimosarum are exposed and the changes in availability of potential insect prey at different times of year and over the daily cycle. We used these data to determine the extent to which prey availability and climatic conditions explain seasonal and daily variation in the activity of the spiders. Data were collected during four sampling periods a year over two years from nests of S. mimosarum located on the Mkomazi River Bridge (KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa). We measured ambient and nest temperatures and in a sample of nests, spider growth rate, prey availability, foraging activity and activity on the web at night. Spiders had two periods of increased growth rate occurring in early and late summer, at times of year when ambient temperature rarely falls below 20 C. Temperatures inside the nest were generally higher than ambient throughout the day and night. Foraging response, measured as the numbers of individuals responding to the vibrations of a tuning fork, was significantly higher by night than by day. In summer, foraging response decreased with increasing temperature during the day, whereas in winter, there was a positive correlation between foraging response and temperature at night. Potential prey, measured as mean numbers of insects trapped in a sample of webs, were more abundant during the day than at night, despite the fact that the spiders were most active on the web at night. Nocturnal insects, however, were larger than diurnal ones and spiders handled significantly more large prey both during the day and at night. Correlation and partial correlation analyses indicate that ambient temperature and windspeed play a direct role in influencing foraging and other activity on the web. Nonetheless, the predominance of nocturnal activity in both summer and winter could not be explained by climatic conditions and prey availability alone. Some other factor (e.g., predation or parasitism) may be involved. 
3705144|A new genus, Aspurochelifer, and its type, Aspurochelifer littlefieldi, new species, are described from California, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon and Washington; the first Oregon state records are reported for Dactylochelifer silvestris Hoff, Hysterochelifer fuscipes (Banks), H. proprius Hoff, and Parachelifer persimilis (Banks); and new Oregon records are provided for P. scabriculus (Simon), Chelifer cancroides (Linnaeus) and Haplochelifer philipi (Chamberlin).
25434295|Batesian ant mimics - such as salticids belonging to the genus Myrmarachne - resemble their models to deceive potential predators, sometimes including the ants themselves. Myrmarachne species in addition to being striking visual mimics of ants also wave their first pair of legs in the air, much like the antennal movement of ants. Whether this leg movement is part of Myrmarachne species' mimicry is debated. In this study the leg I movement of four Myrmarachne species was investigated, with particular attention given to the frequency and amplitude of the leg waving. Correlations between the leg waving and other behaviors of Myrmarachne species were also looked at. There were interspecific differences in leg I movements, and the leg I waving also depended on other behaviors such as "bobbing" the opisthosoma. Thus the leg I movement of Myrmarachne species is behavioral mimicry of the antennal movement of ants, in other words increasing the spiders' resemblance to the ants to avoid predation. This "antennal illusion" displays characteristics of a plastic trait which has evolved under selection pressure.
3705932|Recent work in conservation biology and restoration ecology has highlighted the need for research on the process of community assembly and the effect of initial conditions on community development. Theory and limited experimental work in this area suggest that an initial "pioneer" colonist arriving in open habitat can strongly influence this process, resulting in a priority effect. We used a ubiquitous terrestrial animal group, spiders, to test for the existence of priority effects during colonization of individual sagebrush shrubs. In 1992, at a site in northern Utah, we applied three treatments to subsets of 60 cleared shrubs that represented available habitat to spiders. Two shrub treatments received different jumping spider pioneer colonists placed by hand (either Metaphidippus aeneolus (Curtis 1892) or Phidippus johnsoni (Peckham & Peckham 1883)), and a third shrub treatment received no placed spiders, serving as a reference. After 3-4 days of exposure to the same environmental conditions, including natural colonization by dispersing spiders, we collected a total of 285 spider assemblages that had developed on shrubs. We compared these assemblages by treatment type at both the species and guild levels, defining spider guilds based on differences in morphology and foraging technique (e.g., jumpers, trappers, ambushers, and pursuers). The total number of spiders per shrub was not significantly different by treatment type (P = 0.279), and overall measures of species richness and abundance were similar. At the guild level of analysis, however, differences were observed. Total counts of trappers were 43-50% lower in treatments receiving a placed jumper pioneer. A log-linear model comparing treatments as a whole confirmed that jumper pioneers significantly reduced trapper numbers in subsequent assemblages compared to those from reference shrubs (P = 0.019), and significantly fewer trappers were collected from shrubs that had Metaphidippus aeneolus as a pioneer (P = 0.034). This evidence of short-term priority effects was found despite a conservative aspect of our test, in which the reference shrubs had some likelihood (35%) of receiving either of these jumper pioneers by chance from natural dispersal. It is not known whether these priority effects persist over longer time scales. The observed results are consistent with predictions based on known spider behaviors of cannibalism and interguild predation. Outcomes of these spider-spider interactions relate to differences in foraging technique and body size. We suggest that a guild-level approach and the shrub-spider system we describe have promise for future research on priority effects and animal community assembly.
23070800|Multilocus approaches are essential for accurately recovering the evolutionary processes underlying species and population history. However, historical inferences in non-model organisms are still almost exclusively based on mitochondrial DNA due to the difficulty of obtaining multiple informative loci. Here, we use a genomic library based approach, to generate 15 novel anonymous nuclear markers (ANMs) from the ground spider Harpactocrates globifer Ferrndez 1986. The ANMs cross-amplify and sequence well in the target species and its two closest relatives, and some of them also in the more distantly related H. ravastellus Simon 1914. Levels of nucleotide diversity of the ANMs within H. globifer ranged from 0.05% to 1.4% and average sequence divergence between close congeneric relatives from 0.02% to 13.9%, supporting the utility of these loci in population and species-level analyses. Moreover, a cross-species amplification screened in other spider taxa showed that some of the loci could also potentially be useful in more distantly related genera.
3705735|Spider prey of the Blue Mud Dauber, Chalybion californicum (Saussure), in eastern Missouri included 15 species representing four families. Araneidae was the most diverse family (nine species), but Theridiidae were more numerous, with Steatoda americana (Emerton) outnumbering all other species combined. Temporal abundances of the nine spider taxa most commonly captured by the wasps in Missouri suggest that wasps collect spiders in numbers relative to their seasonal and relative abundances, accessibility as prey, or size suitability. Spider prey of the same wasp species in northern Florida included 31 species representing nine families. Araneidae was both the most diverse (19 species) and most numerous family and exhibited a pattern of seasonal increase in abundance as prey of C. californicum. Theridiidae constituted a majority of the total individuals in both the Missouri survey and a similar survey from Maryland, while a corresponding study in southern Oklahoma resembled the Florida survey in having high proportions and numbers of Araneidae.
4489044|Examination of some thomisid specimens collected from Taiwan, three species are newly recorded from this fauna: Misumenops pseudovatius (Schenkel 1936), Phrynarachne ceylonica (O.R-Cambridge 1884), Xysticus croceus (Fox 1937). In addition, four new species are described: Lysiteles digitatus,L. torsivus, Takachihoa onoi, and Tmarus lanyu.
23610230|The genus Bagheera Peckham & Peckham 1896 is revised. Joining B. kiplingi Peckham & Peckham 1896 and B. prosper (Peckham & Peckham 1901), two new species are described, B. motagua sp. nov. from Guatemala and B. laselva sp. nov. from Costa Rica. Both sexes of these new species are described and illustrated. Additional illustrations of male palps, epigynes, male chelicerae and habitus of B. kiplingi and B. prosper are included for comparison, and the females of these two species are formally described for the first time.
40233825|The genus Diplothele O. Pickard-Cambridge 1890 of the brush-footed spider family Barychelidae is represented in India by a single species, D. walshi O. Pickard-Cambridge 1890. In this paper, we describe two new species: Diplothele gravelyi from Angul and Diplothele tenebrosus from Ganjam, Orissa. We establish a neotype and provide additional characters for D. walshi, the types of which are lost. The neotype was collected from one of the previously described localities, Barkuda Island, Orissa. Spiders of this genus are known to build double-door trapdoor burrows, but the new species, D. tenebrosus, constructs a single entrance burrow with a trapdoor. Notes on natural history are provided for all species.
3705482|Mitochondrial DNA fragments comprising more than 400 bases of the 16S rDNA from nine spider species have been sequenced: Cupiennius salei, C. getazi, C. coccineus and Phoneutria boliviensis (Ctenidae), Pisaura mirabilis, Dolomedes fimbriatus (Pisauridae), Pardosa agrestis (Lycosidae), Clubiona pallidula (Clubionidae) and Ryuthela nishihirai (syn. Heptathela nishihirai; Heptathelidae: Mesothelae). Sequence divergence ranges from 3-4% among Cupiennius species and up to 36% in pairwise comparisons of the more distantly related spider DNAs. Maximally parsimonious gene trees based on these sequences indicate that Phoneutria and Cupiennius are the most distantly related species of the examined Lycosoidea. The monophyly of the family Ctenidae is therefore doubted; and a revision of the family, which should include DNA-data, is needed.
3705230|Field experiments were conducted to uncover the effects of a web-invading spider, Argyrodes trigonum (Hentz), on two spider species that serve as its host, Neriene radiata (Walckenaer) and Metepeira labyrinthea (Walckenaer). A series of short-term experiments, each lasting one to three days, investigated (1) the effect of host-Argyrodes size differentials on the rate of host emigration and mortality, (2) the effect of additional food on host and Argyrodes emigration, (3) the rate of immigration to, and emigration from, host-occupied and host-unoccupied webs by Argyrodes, and (4) the use of host webs by Argyrodes. The presence of Argyrodes resulted in significant host emigration when host-Argyrodes weight ratios were below 10:1. In some invasions Argyrodes killed the resident spider. Additional prey did not prevent the host from leaving webs containing adult Argyrodes, nor did added prey affect Argyrodes emigration from webs. Argyrodes invaded host-occupied and host-unoccupied webs with equal frequency and captured prey when occupying both types of webs. These latter results suggest that A. trigonum may often inhabit and use empty webs for prey capture, as well as webs occupied by the original resident. Thus, in its interactions with N. radiata and M. labyrinthea, the web-invading A. trigonum behaves perhaps as a commensal, and certainly as a predator, a thief of prey, a web-thief, and perhaps a webscavenger. The nature of the interaction between A. trigonum and its hosts appears to vary primarily as a function of the relative size of host spider and A. trigonum.
3706063| The homing behavior of Lycosa tarentula (Linnaeus 1758) (Araneae, Lycosidae) adult females was studied. They were tested under two conditions, diffused light (200 lux) and darkness, after having been placed in an open field. In both conditions the spiders did not orient towards the burrow position; instead, under diffused light, each spider turned at a constant angle with a value close to 135; this is the turn that the spider should have made in its terrarium to return to the burrow. In darkness, most of the spiders (71.4%) turned at random. In both conditions, the trajectory was roughly straight, finishing with a sudden directional change. The speed was higher under diffused light than under darkness. These results support the hypothesis that L. tarentula uses path integration in laboratory conditions and that it needs visual input to obtain a direction estimation in homing. 
3706142| The genus Lyssomanes (Salticidae) is recorded and described from a fossil in 20-30 Ma Oligocene-Miocene amber from Chiapas, Mexico for the first time. This is the oldest described Lyssomanes and extends the known geological range of the genus by approximately 10 Ma from the previously oldest known specimens in Dominican Republic amber. The geological age of the family may be young compared to other extant spider families. /// El genero Lyssomanes (Salticidae) es descrito y registrado por primera vez incluido en el mbar de Chiapas, Mxico, tomando en cuenta una edad de 20 a 30 Ma (Oligoceno-Mioceno). ste es el registro ms antiguo que se tienen de Lyssomanes y con esto se extiende el rango geolgico conocido para el gnero por aproximadamente 10 Ma de los especimenes previamente conocidos y ms antiguos del mbar de la Republica Dominicana. Geolgicamente la edad la familia puede ser joven comparado con otras familias existentes de araas. 
4129808|We describe the presence and dimensions of viscid globules in both the sheet and tangle portions of the webs of Achaearanea tesselata (Keyserling 1884). We found viscid globules in all sheets and tangles of the webs examined. The globules were very small and water soluble. The globules were present in the sheet of the first web built by a juvenile (n = 1), but their density was lower than in webs of mature females (n = 6).
24365286|Scorpions are nocturnal arachnids that fluoresce a bright cyan-green when exposed to UV light. Although the function of this fluorescence remains unknown, some authors have suggested that it may aid the scorpions' light detection. Taking advantage of scorpions' negatively phototactic behavior, we tested the responses of desert grassland scorpions, Paruroctonus utahensis (Williams 1968), to 395 nm UV light at irradiances corresponding to an hour before sunset (0.15 W/cm2), sunset (0.01 W/cm2), and moonlight (0.0001 W/cm2), as well as no light. We found that animals showed the strongest responses to UV light levels equivalent to sunset. The animals moved more quickly and sporadically under the higher light levels. In addition, animals were less likely to complete a trial under highest light conditions, suggesting that UV light may inhibit normal scorpion locomotion. Finally, this study resulted in several methodological refinements, including automated tracking of the subjects' movements that should prove useful in future behavioral studies of scorpion phototactic behavior.
4129790| Thirty-two species of pseudoscorpions have been found co-existing with nine packrat (or woodrat) species of the genus Neotoma, and this association has been referred to as phoresy. Phoresy is a term for passive dispersal when an animal literally hitches a ride on another to reach a new habitat. The pseudoscorpions reported above live in or on the nests of the packrats and do not ride on the rats themselves, eliminating a truly phoretic association. All life-history stages of the small arachnids have been found in packrat nests, indicating at least a commensalistic relationship exists, whereby the pseudoscorpion benefits from shelter and food found in the nests, and reproduces there as well. Two pseudoscorpion species have been reported feeding on packrat ectoparasites, specifically larval and adult fleas, and thus a mutualistic relationship beneficial to both "guest" and "host" exists. /// Treinta y dos especies de pseudoescorpin han sido halladas en los nidos de ratas del gnero Neotoma, y esta asociacin ha sido llamada foresis. Foresis, sin embargo, es un trmino especfico para dispersin pasiva donde un animal viaja sobre otro para llegar a un nuevo habitat. Los pseudoescorpiones viven en los nidos de las ratas y no han sido encontrados sobre las ratas mismas, descartando una verdadera asociacin foretica entre ellos. En los nidos de las ratas se han encontrado todos los estados del ciclo de vida de los pseudoescorpiones, indicando que existe una asociacin comensalistica donde los pequeos arcnidos se benefician de la proteccin y el sustento que reciben en el nido, e incluso se reproducen en l. Se han reportado dos especies de pseudoescorpin alimentandose de los ectoparasites de las ratas, especficamente de pulgas larvales y adultas, resultando en una asociacin mutualistica donde ambos el "huesped" y el "hospedero" se benefician. 
24717334|The legs of laniatorean harvestmen feature a considerable diversity of setae, glandular openings, sensory structures, and tubercles. In this study, we compared the morphology of cuticular structures occurring on leg IV of 12 species of cosmetid harvestmen and six species of other gonyleptoidean harvestmen representing the families Agoristenidae, Gonyleptidae (three subfamilies), and Stygnidae. Our results indicate that there is considerable interspecific variation in rough pit glands and the tarsal perforated organ among cosmetid and gonyleptoidean harvestmen. We also found interspecific variation in the relative size, number, distribution, and morphology of the tubercles on the femur, patella and tibia. We observed relatively little interspecific variation in the morphology of sensilla chaetica, trichomes, spines, single pores, tarsal aggregated pores, and slit sensilla. Additional studies of the ultrastructure of cuticular structures, especially rough pit glands, are needed to assess their functional significance. Future systematic revisions of cosmetid taxa may also benefit from the inclusion of characters based upon interspecific variation in the microanatomical structures of the legs.
4129795|This study revises the status of crab spiders (Araneae, Thomisidae) endemic to the Society Islands, a volcanic archipelago situated in the southern Pacific Ocean. Only one species, Misumenops melloleitaoi Berland 1934, known from a single female and immature, was previously recorded from Tahiti (the largest island of the Society archipelago). Field surveys (1999-2003) and examination of material in natural history collections show that thomisid spiders occur in four islands of the Society archipelago and are recognized as two endemic species. Misumenops temihana is described as new from the islands of Raiatea and Huahine. This paper further presents the first description of the male of M. melloleitaoi Berland 1934, and extends the range of this species to include multiple localities on the islands of Tahiti and Moorea. Misumenops melloleitaoi can be easily distinguished from M. temihana by the presence of two short black lines on the ventral surface of femur and patella I and II which are lacking in M. temihana.
25067818|The female of Phrynus exsul Harvey is described from Rinca Island, Komodo Island National Park in the Lesser Sunda Islands, eastern Indonesia. The new populations were found in forested biotopes, suggesting that it occupies a range of habitats. /// Betina Phrynus exsul Harvey dipertelakan dari Pulau Rinca, Taman Nasional Pulau Komodo di Kepulauan Lesser Sunda, Indonesia timur. Populasi baru ditemukan di kawasan hutan yang diduga sebagai perluasan habitat.
4129849|Aerial dispersal ("ballooning") of Argiope bruennichi spiderlings has been claimed to be an obligate life history trait and a prerequisite for spinning prey-capture webs. If this were true, a ballooning phase would be essential for any laboratory rearing of A. bruennichi making rearing protocols particularly elaborate. We tested the significance of ballooning for second-instar spiderlings in the laboratory and showed that the ballooning behavior is not essential for building prey-capture orb webs. Our results also give no evidence for the hypothesis that recent natural selection has changed ballooning behavior in newly founded field populations.
23610286|The fauna of surface-active spiders was studied in 12 cereal fields, with two types of subcrop, and in four young (17 months old) perennial leys (grass/clover). The fields were located in the southeastern (A), central (B) and western (C) parts of Norway. In total, 3945 spiders were caught from May to September 2004, using pitfall traps. Linyphidae was the most numerous family, with Erigone atra Blackwall 1833 representing 56% of all trapped individuals. The total numbers of spider species and individuals were significantly higher in leys than in barley at sites where both crops were present (sites A and B), with on average 11 species and 93 specimens in barley, and 20 species and 393 specimens in leys. Thus, young perennial leys appeared to provide a better habitat for spiders than did cereal fields, as has previously been documented for older perennial leys. The use of multi-species crops instead of a single crop species undersown in cereals, tended to result in higher spider species diversity, but it did not influence the total number of specimens. An ordination (DCA) showed a clustering of the spider fauna from the same site, but no clear separation between main crop types (ley vs. barley) was apparent. The main crops, subcrops, and the surrounding environs of the cropped field seem to affect the diversity and abundance of spiders.
3705849|The American members of the antlike salticid genus Synageles are revised. Synageles species may be distinguished from other antlike salticids by the unique configuration of the genitalia. Other distinguishing characteristics are the spination of the tibia of the first legs, small size, flat appearance, waving of the second pair of legs, and the ultrastructure of the white body scales. In the New World this genus ranges from Canada to southern Mexico and the Bahamas. It is the only genus of antlike salticids restricted to the holarctic. The status of Gertschia is changed to that of a subgenus. The seven New World species are: Synageles (Gertschia) bishopi new species, S. (G.) mexicanus new species, S. (G.) noxiosa (Hentz). Synageles (Synageles) canadensis new species, S. (S.) idahoanus (Gertsch), S. (S.) leechi new species, and S. (S.) occidentalis new species.
41758968|In general, spiders that build long-lasting webs invest a larger amount of silk and consequently a larger amount of energy in their construction than those species that build ephemeral webs. It is expected that spiders that build longlasting webs choose rigid substrates for web construction to help preserve their investment. I experimentally tested this prediction by confining Cyrtophora citricola (Forsskl 1775) (Coddington 1989) spiders (n = 32) in containers provided with firm and unstable substrates for the spiders to construct their webs. This experiment confirms that C. citricola strongly prefers firm substrates to which to attach its web when it must choose between a firm and an unstable substrate.
25654012|A new species, Dasylobus nevadensis, is described; it inhabits high areas of the Sierra Nevada, the highest mountain chain in Spanish mainland. The new species is smaller than all other Iberian Dasylobus species and has short, annulated legs, light silver coloration, and is juvenile-like. Together with Roeweritta carpentieri (Roewer 1953), this is an orophilous endemic species from Sierra Nevada.
3706162|Since adult male crab spiders Misumena vatia (Clerck 1757) (Thomisidae) feed sparingly and do not increase in mass, we wished to determine whether they responded to cues from hunting sites that would maximize their prospects of capturing prey. These spiders used cues from both prey and substrate as indicators of satisfactory hunting sites in the absence of females. They remained longer on red clover (Trifolium pratense) and ox-eye daisies (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum) in peak-condition flower than on senescent ones, and longer on daisies in peak-condition flower with prey than on peak-condition flowers without prey. They also remained as long on senescing daisies and clover with prey as on daisies and clover in peak-condition flower, but without prey. Thus, the effects of prey and substrate acted cumulatively on daisy, but not clover. However, they did not respond markedly differently on flowering and senescing branches of goldenrod (Solidago canadensis), although individuals on peak-condition flowers visited by prey remained somewhat longer than those at sites not visited by prey.
20798593|The chemical composition of the scent gland secretion of Pachylus paessleri Roewer 1913, a pachyline harvestman, was analysed by gas chromatographymass spectrometry. The secretion is a six-component mixture of benzoquinones, with 2,3-dimethyl-1,4-benzoquinone and 2,3,5-trimethyl-1,4-benzoquinone being the main components (together amounting for  of the secretion). Minor components are 2,5-dimethyl-1,4-benzoquinone (about 12%), 2-ethyl-3-methyl-1,4-benzoquinone (about 8%), 2,5-dimethyl-3-ethyl-1,4-benzoquinone (5%), and 2-ethyl-5-methyl-1,4-benzoquinone (about 1%). No sex-dependent differences could be detected. While dimethyl- and trimethyl-benzoquinones are widespread in scent gland secretions of Gonyleptoidea, 2,5-dimethyl-3-ethyl-1,4-benzoquinone and 2-ethyl-5-methyl-1,4-benzoquinone are reported for the first time in Opiliones. The phylogenetic implications of these compounds are briefly discussed in the scope of the present knowledge of Laniatores.
4129855|The species of the genus Tidarren are known for their one-palped males and outstanding copulatory behavior. In our ultrastructural observations of T. argo Knoflach & van Harten 2001, we show that this species possesses highly specific spermatozoa which differ from those found in other spiders: The nucleus of the sperm cell is strongly elongated and characterized by a conspicuous implantation fossa. The basis of the axoneme is located close to the acrosomal complex. The axoneme starts in front of the implantation fossa which extends deeply into the postcentriolar elongation. The implantation fossa is filled with dense staining globules and granules as in other theridiid species. Apart from these peculiarities, in T. argo the proximal centriole is located extraordinarily far away from the distal one. The encapsulated cleistospermia are surrounded by a thin secretion sheath. Remarkably, mature spermatozoa are not densely packed, but embedded in a copious secretion.
3704951|Two basic types of scorpion spermatophores are differentiated: flagelliform and lamelliform. The pre-insemination and post-insemination flagelliform spermatophore of Centruroides sculpturatus Ewing (Buthidae); and lamelliform spermatophores of Didymocentrus comondae (Stahnke) (Diplocentridae), Vaejovis confusus Stahnke and Hadrurus arizonensis Ewing (Vaejovidae); and the post-insemination lamelliform spermatophore of Supersitionia donensis Stahnke (Chactidae) are described and illustrated. Comparisons with other arachnid spermatophores reveal no similarities with the flagelliform type, while the lamelliform type of scorpions is apparently homologous to the spermatophores of atemnid pseudoscorpions. The family Buthidae is characterized by flagelliform spermatophores, by males having a complex type of reproductive system, and females having an "eight-celled" reticular ovariuterus. The families Bothriuridae, Chactidae, Diplocentridae, Scorpionidae and Vaejovidae are characterized by lamelliform spermatophores, by males having a simple type of reproductive system, and females having a "six-celled" reticular ovariuterus. The spermatophore of the family Chaerilidae is unknown, males have an intermediate type of reproductive system and females have a "six-celled" type of reticular ovariuterus. It is postulated that the Chaerilidae are more closely related to scorpions with lamelliform spermatophores than they are to buthids, and their spermatophores are probably of a lamelliform "type".
24365322|We conducted systematic sampling to examine the microhabitat distribution of the Nearctic linyphiid Drapetisca alteranda Chamberlin 1909; adults are found almost exclusively on tree trunk surfaces. Sampling was conducted in a 1 ha plot in which all trees over 10 cm dbh had previously been identified, mapped, and measured. Tree trunks were sampled for D. alteranda by brushing spiders into beating sheets. We sampled equal trunk surface areas (0.52.0 m) of the four most abundant tree species on the plot: Quercus alba, Fraxinus pennsylvanica, Tilia americana, and Carya ovata. We measured tree bark furrowing depth at 15 locations around each tree. We analyzed the data with a General Linear Mixed Model, assuming Poisson distribution. Tree species and furrowing depth, but not tree size, were significant predictors of total number of D. alteranda collected. Eighty-four percent of the spiders were collected on T. americana, and the relationship between spider abundance and furrowing depth was negative. As a separate test for D. alteranda vertical distribution, we divided the lower 3 m of selected tree trunks into six 0.5 m sections, sampling each separately. Regardless of tree species, height above ground was a significant predictor of female (but not male) D. alteranda occurrence, with 52% of the females found 0.51.0 m above the forest floor. These results suggest that the microhabitat distribution of D. alteranda is broadly similar to that of the Eurasian species D. socialis, a species that matures in leaf litter and migrates mostly to the lower regions of tree boles to forage as adults.
23610292|The Ariadna spiders (Araneae: Segestriidae) inhabiting the gravel plains of the Central Namib Desert construct individual burrows with a circular entrance surrounded by a ring of small pebbles; sometimes they close their burrows by a small stone. In the lichen fields, about 20 km east of Walvis Bay (Namibia), there is a consistent population of Ariadna spiders that can also use pieces of lichen both in the ring composition and as the plug when the burrow is closed. We sampled and monitored 175 burrows repeatedly between December 1999 and August 2000. In March 2000, an exceptionally high rainfall occurred in the Namib, leading to flooding even in our fieldwork station. We tested whether and to what extent an event of this magnitude could affect burrow closing. We found the rain event increased burrow closure by large, but not small or medium-sized, Ariadna sp. We suggest that the flooding event acted as an ecological resource pulse for these spiders.
3706365|The relationship between the structure of spider communities and an index of hedge ecological quality (based on an analysis of vegetation architecture using vegetation diversity and foliage cover) was investigated. The comparison deals with six hedges each of low, medium and high ecological value. The species richness and species composition of dominant spiders was the same for hedges of different quality. Thus it is concluded that these two simple parameters cannot reflect the diversity of the hedge foliage. Indicating species of the differences between ecological quality of two hedges could be required among the groups of species absent from one type of hedge. However, the foliage orientation of the hedges may induce substitution of spider species; thus special attention must be paid to the foliage orientation when comparing the spider communities inhabiting the hedges.
3705774|Ballooning, the aerial displacement of a spider caused by friction between air and the spider with its silk, has considerable ecological importance but remains poorly understood as a mechanical process. The studies reported here provide insight into the mechanics of ballooning by way of experiments involving (1) stroboscopic measurement of the rates of fall of spiders slowed by known lengths of silk and (2) direct measurement of the drag generated by moving air at the surface of spiders as those spiders change their postures. The terminal velocities of spiders trailing silk, derived from their rates of fall at known distances from release, were remarkably variable. The variability could not be attributed entirely to silk length and spider mass, and in some cases silk length was not even statistically correlated with terminal velocity. Drag measurements made on living spiders revealed that the variability in terminal velocities could be explained by variability in posture.
3705404|I tested whether female crab spiders Misumena vatia responded differently to their own nests and to other spider nests or parts of nests. They accepted nests of conspecifics as readily as their own, although initially showing more activity on others' nests than their own. They accepted intact M. vatia nests more often than nest silk placed on leaves, turned-under leaves, or artificial nests; and unaltered leaves less frequently than any of the latter. They accepted nests of other spider species less frequently than conspecific nests, probably in response to the differences between these nests and conspecific nests. Some crab spiders about to lay their eggs accepted conspecific nests, but hunting adult females did not accept them more than predicted by chance.
3705959|The genus Attidops is resurrected from Ballus based on its strongly excavate cymbial tip, transverse embolar groove, flatter carapace with extended postocular area, and single retromarginal cheliceral tooth, which indicate a closer relationship to the genus Admestina. The type species, Ballus youngii Peckham & Peckham 1888, again transferred, becomes Attidops youngi (Peckham & Peckham). Two new species, Attidops nickersoni (sister species to A. youngi) and Attidops cutleri, are described. Icius cinctipes Banks 1900, previously transferred to Ballus, becomes a new combination, Attidops cinctipes (Banks). Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for Ballus youngii and Icius cinctipes. The genus is recorded from south-central Canada, eastern U.S. and eastern Mexico.
3706271|An unusual silken nest built under the sand surface is described in Yllenus arenarius-a jumping spider inhabiting sandy dunes. In this open habitat, characterized by high temperature and humidity gradients as well as a lack of retreats, the nest probably plays a key role in the survival strategy of Y. arenarius that is numerically dominant among day-active, dune-dwelling spiders. These salticids built nests a few millimeters under the surface after burrowing in loose sand. Four types of nests of different size, structure and function were built: A) where eggs were laid and early instars developed, B) where spiders molted, C) where they overwintered and, D) the most common, where spiders spent the night. Different age groups produced different numbers of nests per time unit. Juveniles in their first season of life built many more nests than subadult spiders in their second season, which in turn built more nests than adult spiders. Various functions of the silken nests and the high numbers built by juveniles suggest that the structures may play an important role in surviving in the dune.
3705983|The biogeography of the Gondwanan orbweaving spider Carepalxis is reviewed. The genus occurs in Central and northern South America, Australia and New Guinea. It is recorded for the first time from Western Australia. Mimicry of a gumnut (eucalypt seed capsule) is described and illustrated for a southwestern Australian species. It is postulated that the mimicry protects the spiders from bird predation.
3705643|Argyrodes trigonum (Hentz 1850) can interact with its host as kleptoparasite, host predator, web-stealer, or commensal. This species can also capture insect prey in a web of its own construction. Which foraging strategy an individual A. trigonum exhibits certainly depends on a multitude of environmental factors, especially host availability. In this study, field surveys of populations of A. trigonum and its hosts and daily observations of individually marked host webs were made at sites in Ohio and New Hampshire. These observations together with a manipulation of A. trigonum density were performed in order to determine the influence of host species and abundance on the foraging strategy of A. trigonum. A. trigonum utilized Neriene radiata (Walckenaer 1841) to a greater extent than alternative hosts at both web sites even though many other host species were more abundant. The percentage of A. trigonum sharing a web with the host did not change with differing host/A. trigonum ratios; however, as a host/A. trigonum ratio increased, more A. trigonum were found in unoccupied host webs and fewer A. trigonum were found in webs of their own construction. A. trigonum is more likely to share a web with Pityohyphantes costatus (Hentz 1850) and to usurp the webs of Neriene radiata. Overall, A. trigonum behaved predominantly as a host predator; however, kleptoparasitism is more likely in host webs that last longer. Capturing prey in self-constructed or empty host webs is also important to A. trigonum foraging.
3705218|Empty nests of conspecific females elicit courtship behavior from males of Phidippus johnsoni. Males discriminate between nests of adult males and adult females and also between nests of subadult males and subadult females.
24365298|Arctenus gen. nov. is proposed to include the type species A. taitensis sp. nov. from the Taita Hills in Kenya. This ctenid species appears to be the first representative of the Calocteninae in the African continent. Results of a parsimony analysis of morphological and behavioral characters indicated that the new species cannot be placed in any known genus and therefore validated the creation of the new genus whose autapomorphies are considered hypotheses for the genus synapomorphies. The phylogenetic relationships of the new genus are discussed and a distribution map of the unique species is presented.
4129812|We recorded the number of ectoparasitic erythraeid mite larvae (Leptus sp. Latreille 1796) that were attached to 1241 Leiobunum formosum Wood 1870 from a population in southeastern Virginia. The prevalence of infestation (percent of individuals parasitized) exhibited significant annual and seasonal variation, ranging from 0.5% to 20.3%. The mean intensity of infestation (number of mites per parasitized individual) varied from 1.0 to 1.3, with a maximum observed intensity of 3 mites/individual. This study provides the first description of annual and seasonal variation in mite infestation of harvestmen.
3705626| Web-spinning spiders of 6 families, 12 genera, and at least 15 species preyed on spruce budworm, Choristoneura fumiferana (Clem.), moths in Maine. Significantly more (G-tests, P  0.05) male than female moths were captured by 9 web-spinner species, and the overall capture by spiders was significantly biased (P  0.001) toward male moths. Most of the budworm-moth prey were found in webs of Frontinella pyramitela (Walck.) (30.6%) and Theridion pictum (Walck.) (45.0%). Multiple observations of the same web (temporal replication) indicated that T. pictum captured significantly more (Z = -4.36, P = 0.000) budworm moths/web than F. pyramitela. However, such differences in prey-capture rates were not detected (Z = -1.49, P = 0.14) over several locations (spatial replication). Web surveys during the spruce budworm's moth-flight period indicated that percentages of webs with budworm prey were about equal; F. pyramitela (X = 19.5  5.7), T. pictum (X= 18.9  3.6), all species (X = 16.0  2.7). Trees occupied by T. pictum were significantly taller (P  0.001) and webs significantly higher (P  0.001) than trees and webs of F. pyramitela. For both spider species, mean relative web height was > 60% of tree height, possibly indicating nonrandom choices of foraging patch. However, tree height and web height were not significantly (P  0.05) related to prey-capture for F. pyramitela webs; tree height was significantly taller (P = 0.009) for T. pictum webs with budworm moths. Two species of kleptoparasites, Argyrodes trigonum (Hentz) and A. fictilium (Hentz), were associated with host-spider webs that captured spruce budworm moths. Possible explanations for the observed sex-biased predation include: 1) sex-pheromone mimicry, 2) uneven prey densities, 3) accidental capture, 4) moth behavior, and 5) moth-flight activity. Because of the potential impacts on spruce budworm reproduction, predation by spiders gains increased importance as a source of moth mortality. 
25067836|Tarantula spiders of the genus Brachypelma Simon 1891 are the only complete genus of arachnids protected from international trade under CITES law. To better understand the genetic cohesion of spiders within this genus, we evaluated multiple genetic fragments (totalling about 2200 bp) for their ability to recover population sub-structure among wild-caught Brachypelma vagans (Ausserer 1875) from Belize. We used a novel non-lethal method of tissue sampling, by inducing autospasy of the medial leg. This method allowed us to release wild-caught individuals of this protected species after DNA sampling. We used arachnid specific PCR primers to amplify targeted regions of B. vagans DNA, testing various combinations for consistency. We compared mitochondrial fragments from two populations of B. vagans (50 km apart) for variation in mitochondrial 16S lrRNA (plus 5 ND1), CO1, and the nuclear ITS-2 spacer. Both lrRNA-ND1 and CO1 provided congruent estimates of population subdivision, and indicated that lrRNA-ND1 contained the greatest variation. The nuclear ITS-2 was surprisingly short (193 bp) and relatively invariant across B. vagans. While both mitochondrial fragments appear suitable to elucidate population subdivision and historical processes in B. vagans, we suggest that mitochondrial markers may overestimate population division in B. vagans. We conclude that along with valuable inferences from mitochondrial regions, the characterization of population sub-structure in tarantula spiders will be enhanced by other estimates from alternate nuclear fragments.
20617596|In this paper, we describe the construction and function of the double sheet and tangle web of Tidarren sisyphoides (Walckenaer 1842). Web construction includes several stages: construction of the scaffolding that serves to support the rest of the web; filling in the dome-shaped and horizontal sheets; and construction of the upper tangle. During construction of the scaffolding, the spider descends by a pre-existing thread to the substrate, moves a few centimeters and attaches the dragline, then she ascends by the new thread, doubling the line or attaching it to another thread. The spider fills in the sheet while walking in an irregular pattern under the sheet, and attaching her dragline using either one or both legs IV simultaneously to hold pre-existing sheet lines against her spinnerets. During scaffolding construction and filling in the dome-shaped sheet, the spider returns frequently to the retreat, apparently using the same threads near the retreat each time. Threads of both the dome-shaped sheet and the horizontal sheet have small drops of viscid material. The dome-shaped sheet and upper tangle comprise the functional trap of the web, while the horizontal sheet apparently plays only a little role in prey capture.
20788609|Aterigena n. gen. is erected for four Palearctic species of funnel-web spiders previously placed in Tegenaria Latreille 1804 or Malthonica Simon 1898 (Agelenidae: Tegenariini) and A. aspromontensis n. sp., an Italian species described here. The following new combinations are proposed: Aterigena aculeata (Wang 1992), A. ligurica (Simon 1916), n. comb. (from Tegenaria), as well as A. aliquoi (Brignoli 1971) and A. soriculata (Simon 1873), n. comb. (from Malthonica). The latter two species were originally described in Tegenaria. The new genus is diagnosed by the unique combination of several morphological character states (e.g., notched trochanters III and IV, lateral spines on patellae, shape of vulvae). The monophyly of the new genus is also supported by a molecular analysis based on CO1 sequences of several taxa. Keys are provided for the identification of the recognized genera of Tegenariini and the species of Aterigena n. gen. Several species of Pseudotegenaria Caporiacco 1934, originally described in Tegenaria, are morphologically close to Tegenaria tridentina L. Koch 1872, a species that is grouped in the cladistic analysis using CO1 in the monophyletic taxon "Tegenaria clade 1". The species are therefore transferred back to Tegenaria as Tegenaria animata Kratochvl & Miller 1940 stat. rev., T. bayeri Kratochvl 1934 stat. rev., T. bosnica Kratochvl & Miller 1940 stat. rev. and T. decolorata Kratochvl & Miller 1940 stat. rev. Aterigena n. gen. has an interesting geographical distribution: it is widely disjunct in the Palearctic. Four species occur in the Mediterranean and one in China, respectively. A. ligurica is relatively widely distributed in mainland Italy and adjacent Southern France with a single specimen known each from Spain and Egypt (Alexandria), respectively. The latter may be the result of an accidental introduction. The other three European species are endemic to Sicily, Corsica (perhaps also Sardinia) and Calabria, respectively.
23610253|Urbanization negatively affects biodiversity by increasing disturbance and habitat fragmentation. We compared three different urban habitats (vacant lots, gardens and forests) to examine differences in spider communities. We selected four sites of each habitat type and sampled spiders with pitfall traps. We collected a total of 547 individuals from 19 families. The most common families were Lycosidae, Corinnidae, Liocranidae, Cybaeidae, and Dictynidae. Spider activity-density overall and for males and females was higher in vacant lots than in forests, and female spiders had greater activity-density in gardens than in forests. Observed species richness did not differ with habitat type. Spider family composition differed significantly between urban habitat types, female morphospecies composition differed in forests and gardens and male morphospecies composition differed in forests and lots. The site characteristics differed significantly with habitat, and these habitat differences explained a large fraction (53.3% to 90.9%) of the variation in composition and richness. Yet, bare ground was the only factor that significantly correlated with declines in female richness. Thus, spider communities, aspects of specifically activity-density and composition, differ between habitats in urban green spaces with potentially important implications for conservation and trophic interactions within urban areas.
41317221|Four new species of Xenocytaea: X. stanislawi, X. taveuniensis, X. victoriensis, and X. vonavonensis are described from Fiji and the Solomon Islands. X. anomala Berry et al. 1998 is excluded from the genus. The remarks on distribution and relationships are compared with literature data.
3706269|Spiders were studied in open Sphagnum bogs in Sweden, Finland and northern Norway. Material was collected in pitfall traps. Southern sites (hemiboreal zone) differed from coniferous taiga sites (boreal zone, including three subzones), and also the northern sites, north of taiga (palsa and hemiarctic zones) had their own fauna. Typical abundant species for hemiboreal zone was Pirata uliginosus, for boreal zone(s) Pardosa sphagnicola and P. hyperborea and for palsa and hemiarctic zones Hilaira nubigena and Pardosa atrata. No species was found to be dominant and typical throughout the study area.
20617599|Meiotic studies on three phylogenetically distant species of the genus Brachistosternus Pocock from Argentina were conducted. One species is from the subgenus Ministernus Francke 1985, B. ferrugineus Thorell 1876, and two species are from the subgenus Brachistosternus Pocock 1893, B. montanus Roig-Alsina 1977 (Andean species group), and morphologically different populations of B. pentheri Mello-Leito 1931 (plains species group). All species showed achiasmatic meiosis, absence of heteromorphic bivalents, and bibrachial and monobrachial chromosomes of different sizes. Males of Brachistosternus ferrugineus, B. montanus, and one population of B. pentheri have 2n = 46. Males of the typical populations of B. pentheri have 2n = 42. These results suggest that B. pentheri may comprise two species.
3706097| Recent phylogenetic studies of Opiliones have shown that Cyphophthalmi and Phalangida (= Palpatores + Laniatores) are sister groups, but higher relationships within Phalangida remain controversial. Current debate focuses on whether Palpatores (= Caddoidea + Phalangioidea + Ischyropsalidoidea + Troguloidea) is monophyletic or paraphyletic, with Ischyropsalidoidea + Troguloidea (= Dyspnoi) being more closely related to Laniatores. The latter hypothesis was favored in recent combined studies of ribosomal DNA and morphology. Here higher relationships within Phalangida are examined using two nuclear protein-encoding genes, elongation factor-1 (EF-1) and RNA polymerase II (Pol II), from 27 opilion species representing seven superfamilies. Cyphophthalmi was used as the outgroup. Nucleotide and inferred amino acid sequences were analyzed using maximum-parsimony and maximum-likelihood methods. All analyses recovered Palpatores as the monophyletic sister group to Laniatores with moderate to strong empirical support. Most palpatorean superfamilies were also recovered, but relationships among them were ambiguous or weakly supported. A monophyletic Palpatores was also obtained when EF-1 and Pol II sequences were analyzed together with 18S and 28S rDNA sequences. 
25067838|An unattended trap was designed to sample and retain spiders dispersing from agricultural grassland and crops. Traps comprised a removable bottle-trap fixed to the top of a vertical metal rod or "climbing-stick" that spiders climbed during normal pre-ballooning behavior. Bottle-traps caught over eight times more spiders than sticks treated with insect trapping adhesive. Draping sticks with nets increased the effective area of the traps and increased the catch size threefold. On average, 9.1% of spiders were lost from traps during the daytime sampling period. No difference in average rate of loss of spiders from the bottle-traps was observed between night and daylight hours. The bottle-trap design is economical and simple to construct, erect and operate. Continuous sampling also allows multiple traps to be used simultaneously in various locations.
3705789|A quantitative analysis of variation of genital characters among 16 population samples supports Platnick's (Forster et al. 1987) hypothesis that Hypochilus sheari Platnick and Hypochilus coylei Platnick are separate species. Both the width and tip length of the conductor separate these species unambiguously, and an index of spermathecal dimensions distinguishes the otherwise very similar females of each species. A conductor tip synapomorphy indicates that these are probably sister species. Extensive field work indicates that these species are confined to a 35 mile north-south mountain corridor in six counties of western North Carolina and are separated by five miles. It is suggested that subtle deficits in habitat due to a constriction of the mountain corridor and the presence of a watershed divide may have bisected the parent stock and may be maintaining the allopatry of the daughter species. Both species appear to have a two year life cycle and commonly to feed on gryllacridid crickets and cursorial spiders.
3705917|The feeding of radiolabeled conspecific orb webs to Araneus cavaticus Keyserling clearly demonstrated the ability of this species to solubilize nearly all of the orb web, although in no instance was complete solubilization achieved. A principal component of the nonsolubilized portion is probably minor ampullate silk, as spiders fed pulled minor ampullate silk were unable to solubilize the majority of the samples. In contrast, spiders were able to completely solubilize pulled major ampullate silk. Despite the overall high percentage of web solubilization, the recycling efficiencies obtained, while variable, were never in excess of 32% (as determined using webs built by spiders fed
4489073|The first description of a Mermithidae-Linyphiidae parasite-host association is presented. The nematode is preserved exiting the abdomen of the host, which is a juvenile Tenuiphantes species (Araneae, Linyphiidae), collected from the Isle of Mull, UK. An updated taxonomic list of known mermithid spider hosts is provided. The ecology of known spider hosts with regard to the direct and indirect life cycles of mermithid worms suggests that both occur in spiders.
3705860|Levels of genetic variability and gene flow among three populations of Metepeira ventura on Santa Catalina Island, California, were evaluated based on variation at 10 gene loci. Mean heterozygosity (observed) per population was 10.4% and mean polymorphism was 36.7%, consistent with levels of variability in other arthropods. Values of F
3706024| We report on efforts to maintain two common sphecid wasps, Chalybion caeruleum (Saussure 1867) and Sceliphron caementarium (Drury 1773), in field and laboratory enclosures in order to observe their predatory interactions with the orb-weaving spiders Argiope aurantia Lucas 1833 and A. trifasciata (Forskl 1775). Both species of wasps seemed to locate webs primarily by chance while flying along the tops of the vegetation but differed greatly in their hunting tactics once webs were located. Sceliphron caementarium was most successful at capturing spiders that had dropped out of webs in response to the wasp's hitting the web. But, C. caeruleum often employed a type of aggressive mimicry: it landed in the web or used its middle legs to pluck the web, luring the spider to the wasp. Argiope did not differ in their defensive response to C. caeruleum and S. caementarium. Most Argiope dropped out of webs in response to attacks rather than using other defensive behaviors such as shuttling between sides of webs or vibrating webs. 
3705323|Adult female crab spiders Misumena vatia that had previously hunted in large milkweed clones built nests on non-flowering milkweeds more often than predicted and used smaller than average leaves for their nests. These results suggest that they actively select nest sites at both stem and leaf levels. In commencing a nest, spiders first pulled the distal third of a leaf under the rest of the leaf, secured it with silk, and then rested inside this space. A few days later they laid their eggs there, sealed the edges of the leaf around the egg mass with silk and then guarded the nest, typically resting on its lower side. Spiders always left the last stem upon which they hunted before nesting and usually selected milkweed leaves on a stem several meters away from their hunting site for their nest site.
3706254|Rhopalochernes panamensis new species is described from a palm tree in the Canal Zone of Panama. Rhopalochernes chamberlini new species is described from Pueblo Cuyagua Venezuela. The problems encountered in assigning these species to either Rhopalochernes or Pseudopilanus are briefly discussed. An unusual anomaly, involving the loss of trichobothria from the both the fixed and movable fingers of a single chela, is described in R. panamensis.
3705821| The large, orb-weaving spider Nephila clavipes is found in a diversity of habitats within a narrow latitudinal range in Mexico. This allowed nearly simultaneous study of post-embryonic development of six disjunct populations in dissimilar environments. A common-garden laboratory study utilizing juveniles collected in four sites reinforced the conclusions from the field. The developmental parameters influencing growth in size at ecdysis did not vary within or among populations and may be genetically determined. Although very small juveniles exhibit variation in the growth per ecdysis, larger juveniles exhibit very little variation. These data, compared to data from field and laboratory studies of other tropical populations of N. clavipes, indicate that growth per ecdysis is highly constrained. Thus, this developmental parameter establishes a developmental trajectory that may be genetically determined and therefore subject to natural selection. /// La araa Nephila clavipes, tejedora de telas orbiculares, se encuentra en habitats diversos en Mxico dentro de un lmite angusto de latitd. Eso permiti estudios casi simultaneos de ontogenia de juveniles en seis poblaciones desunidos en ambientes distintos. Un estudio del laboratorio utilizando juveniles colectados en cuatro sitios fortalece las conclusiones del campo. Los parmetros ontogenticos determinando el crecimiento por muda no vari dentro ni entre poblaciones, y posiblemente son geneticamente determinados. Aunque juveniles muy pequeos mostraron variacin en el crecimiento por muda, juveniles mas grandes no mostraron variacin en este parmetro. Estos datos, combinados con datos de estudios de otras poblaciones en el laboratorio y en el campo, indican que el crecimiento por muda esta muy constreido. Asi, este parmetro establece una trayectoria ontogentica que posiblemente sea geneticamente determinado y sujeto a seleccin natural. 
3705948|The habitat and courtship behavior of the wolf spider Schizocosa retrorsa (Banks 1911) were studied and are described here for the first time. The range of S. retrorsa was extended to include the lower peninsula of Michigan. This species is locally abundant in highly exposed habitats of sand or pine litter. Male courtship consists of chemoexploration, palpal drumming, an extended leg tap, and a "push-up" display. Female displays include a double leg arch, approaches, and orientations toward the male.
3705403|In the Delta area of Mississippi, a 13-month sampling program in old-field habitats adjacent to cotton fields demonstrated high densities of Pisaurina mira in June, which was coincident with high Lygus lineolaris populations. In July, P. mira populations were lower by 50% and L. lineolaris by almost 100%. From August through October, P. mira populations continued to decline while L. lineolaris increased. Field observations in the same old-field habitats indicated L. lineolaris to be the most frequently captured prey item of P. mira. In laboratory feeding experiments over a 3-year period, all P. mira individuals consumed L. lineolaris and 22 of 35 other species of co-occurring potential arthropod prey. These data suggest that the predator P. mira may affect L. lineolaris populations and can survive on other prey when L. lineolaris is less abundant.
4489070|Despite their notoriety, little is known about tarantulas in their natural environment. Here we describe activity of juvenile tarantulas (Brachypelma vagans) in and around the maternal burrow as well as emergence and dispersal behavior. Juveniles remain within the natal burrow for several weeks and undergo at least one molt after emerging from the egg sac. Small numbers of juveniles are active at night and emerge along with the adult female where they remain close to the entrance of the burrow. Most juvenile activity outside the burrowed occurred in the early morning shortly after sunrise when the female was no longer active or visible at the burrow entrance. We also observed juveniles dispersing en masse from the maternal burrow. Spiderlings moved away from the burrow in lines, following one behind each other.
3706010|A general individual-based model of spiders in agricultural land was constructed. The populations of spiders were simulated on landscapes which were defined from a set of landscape descriptors based on a Danish agricultural landscape. These descriptors gave the types of habitats present in the landscape together with their area and a frequency distribution of the size of individual habitat patches. The agricultural land was divided into crop types each with its own array of crop managements which were considered to influence the spiders via mortality. The dimensions of the model are relatively large, with the spider population able to grow to a size of one million individuals and with a spatial resolution of 10
3705490|One species of the genus Masoncus (Araneae, Linyphiidae) is described and illustrated. Masoncus pogonophilus new species has been collected exclusively inside the nests of the Florida harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex badius (Latreille) (Hymenoptera, Formicidae) and is, therefore, considered a myrmecophile, or obligate ant associate. Morphological characters separating this new species from two of the three described congeners (M. arienus and M. conspectus) are noted.
4129802|Currently, 60 species of harvestmen have been karyotyped and all of these are from the Nearctic and Palearctic regions. This work is the first cytogenetic report of three gonyleptid species of the suborder Laniatores: Goniosoma aff. badium, G. proximum and G. spelaeum of the Neotropical region, from the southeastern region of Brazil. Conventional Giemsa stain chromosome preparations were obtained from embryonic cells and adult male testes. Embryo mitotic plates of G. aff. badium and G. proximum indicated 88 chromosomes, and mitotic spermatogonial plates of G. spelaeum males revealed intra- and interindividual variation of chromosome number, ranging from 92-109 chromosomes. In the three analyzed species, the mitotic chromosomes were meta- or submetacentric with no obvious sex chromosomes being identified during mitosis. Prophase I spermatocytes of G. spelaeum also revealed intra- and interindividual bivalent number variation and furthermore indicated the presence of multivalence. The karyotypes of these three Goniosoma species exhibited the largest chromosome pair with a negative heteropycnosis in the distal region of the shortest arm; chromosomes of G. spelaeum submitted to silver impregnation evidenced this negative heteropycnotic region as nucleolus organizer region (NOR). These results, when compared with cytogenetic data of other Laniatores species from the Palearctic region, indicated that a new record for diploid chromosome number probably characterize the genus Goniosoma in the Neotropical region.
25067825|A new species, Drassyllus broussardi, is described from Presidio County, West Texas, USA. The species belongs to the insularis group but has a distinctively elongated embolus in males and concomitantly elongated copulatory ducts in females.
25067866|The use of carrion to feed spiderlings has never previously been observed in spiders. Here we show that the theridiid Theridion evexum Keyserling 1884 stored dead insectan prey for up to one week prior to the emergence of spiderlings from the egg sac, and continued to feed spiderlings dead prey for six weeks until spiderlings molted to the fourth instar. Spiderlings survived and molted on an experimental diet of exclusively rotten insects.
3705358| Ananteris luciae, a new species of scorpion belonging to the family Buthidae is described based on 10 specimens: 2 adult females and 8 immatures (3 males, 5 females), collected in Santarm in the state of Par, Brazil. With the present description the number of known species in the genus is raised to 13 in the neotropical region. /// Ananteris luciae, nouvelle espce de Scorpion appartenant  la famille des Buthidae est dcrite a partir de 10 exemplaires: 2 femelles adultes et 8 immatures (3 mles, 5 femelles), rcolts  Santarm dans l'Etat de Par au Brsil. Avec la presente description le nombre d'espces connues pour ce genre s'lve a 13 dans la rgion notropicale. 
3704954|Spiders (Gnaphosidae, Clubionidae, etc.), insects (Collembola, Lepidoptera, etc.), and other invertebrates (mites, isopods, millipedes, and snails) were found inside, on, under, and beside nests of P. johnsoni. Some nest associates were found at nests that were occupied by P. johnsoni at the time, but most were at unoccupied nests. Dead organisms, in some cases possibly prey remains of P. johnsoni, and exuvia of other organisms were found also. Hypotheses concerning the adaptive significance of associations are discussed, including predation on P. johnsoni and their eggs, scavenging, and the use of P. johnsoni nests as shelters.
24365285|The first blind African species of Ideoroncidae is described from a cave in northwestern Botswana, Botswanoncus ellisi, representing a new genus and a new species. Apart from the complete lack of eyes, it is also unusual in having the lowest recorded number of trichobothria of any adult ideoroncid with 17 on the fixed finger and nine on the movable finger.
4129888|Females of Liocheles australasiae (Fabricius 1775) collected from a maleless population on Iriomote Island, Ryukyu, Japan, and separately reared in the laboratory have parthenogenetically produced five successive generations in seven years. Many individuals of the first generation collected in July 1994, gave birth to the second generations from 1994-1998, and some of the second generation gave birth to the third generation from 1997-1999. The fourth generations were born from 1999-2001, and the fifth generations were born in January-August 2001. Most females of all generations gave birth to about 20 neonates after approximately an eight-month pregnancy. In the ovary of a fourth generation female, as well as in those of most of the second generation females, there were growing embryos and a number of oocytes of various sizes, suggesting a possibility of the sixth generation or subsequent generations by parthenogenesis.
4129797|When there are direct conflicts in resource allocation to foraging effort versus growth and development, the relative allocation to foraging may change in a predictable manner with development. Orb-webs provide a physical record of resource allocation to foraging, and their synthesis requires the investment of physiologically important resources. Spiders in strongly seasonal habitats must complete development prior to the end of the season, and may be expected to alter foraging effort to maximize the probability of successful reproduction. Comparison of populations of the orb-weaving spider Nephila clavipes (Araneae, Nephilidae) in very seasonal versus less seasonal habitats allows testing for changes in allocation of resources to foraging effort during development. Orb-web size increases with increasing spider size, with little variation in slope among populations. However, in univoltine populations inhabiting strongly seasonal habitats, the size of the orb web is not a simple function of spider size: the rate of increase in orb-web size decelerates abruptly at a relatively small juvenile stage. Spiders in a less seasonal habitat did not decelerate foraging investment, and the pattern cannot be explained by changes in other aspects of orb-web structure. I postulate that the decline in relative investment into foraging is related to increased investment into juvenile female growth and development in circumstances where delayed maturation carries heavy fitness penalties.
3705367|A kleptoparasitic spider, Argyrodes fissifrons, although it is much smaller, sometimes preys upon its host spider, Agelena limbata, during or just after molting of the host. I evaluated the impact of predation by A. fissifrons upon the host population in a woody field in Nagoya, Japan. A. fissifrons occurred on more than 75% of the host webs, but the percentage of hosts preyed upon by A. fissifrons was not high: 2% at the second molting, 3% at the third molting, 1% at the fourth molting, 4% at the fifth molting, 0% at the sixth molting, 8% at the seventh (final) molting. A. fissifrons preferentially preyed upon the host individuals whose development was delayed.
3705447|The buthid scorpion Compsobuthus matthiesseni (Birula 1905) is redescribed (male lectotype here designated), based on study of type specimens and other material now available. Its placement in the genus Compsobuthus Vachon 1949 is discussed, and it is regarded as a valid species of the C. acutecarinatus group despite possessing some unique features. In particular, its elongated pedipalps and metasoma serve to readily distinguish it from other Compsobuthus thus far known in the region. Compsobuthus matthiesseni is known from a number of localities in Iran, Iraq and Turkey. Some details of the early collections made in southwestern Asia are provided.
3705104|The orb web of Nephila clavipes has been fractionated into a water soluble and water insoluble fraction. The former contained K
4129850|Here we describe the structure of a fall speed chamber designed to measure, with low experimental error, the terminal velocities (fall speeds) of spiders of known weight and a given length of silk. We also describe the construction of a simulated individual (SI) which could later be used to estimate the distance travelled by ballooning spiders in the field. Our data and analysis suggest that Oedothorax spp. (Linyphiidae) and Pachygnatha degeeri (Tetragnathidae) individuals have fall speeds that can be described by their silk length and mass. Of the observed deviance in the fall speeds, 73.7% could be explained by a GLM model common to both species groups. Overlaying the SI fall speed data on this GLM surface suggests that the SIs have similar fall speed behaviors to spiders. However, further estimation is necessary before SIs could be considered valid models for evaluating spider ballooning distances.
3705216|Six new species are described from caves in the western United States, as follows: Larca laceyi and Pseudogarypus orpheus from California, Archeolarca welbourni, A. cavicola, and Pseudogarypus hypogeus from Arizona, and Archeolarca guadalupensis from Texas. Larca granulata (Banks) is redescribed and other species of the genera are discussed.
20798587|Based on a firsthand parsing of the original literature, a Zoological Record-style tabulation of all nomenclatural acts regarding species of the order Opiliones is presented for the interval between 1758 and 1804. A total of 52 species was described as new, 14 of which are not Opiliones or remain unrecognizable (nomina dubia), six species have been synonymized (one revalidated), in all resulting in 33 valid species of Opiliones. Four genera were established, although no more than three were used simultaneously. The family Phalangita (Phalangiens) was described and coincides with the modern use of the order Opiliones. Of the current four recognized suborders of Opiliones, three (Cyphophthalmi, Eupnoi and Dyspnoi) were recorded. Laniatores remained unknown. A checklist is given for the order Opiliones up to 1804.
25434281|The huntsman spider genus Vindullus Simon 1880 (Araneae, Sparassidae) is revised. Olios gracilipes Taczanowski 1872 is transferred to the genus and recognized as a senior synonym of the type species, Vindullus viridans Simon 1880, for which the former male syntype was designated as a lectotype. Vindullus kratochvili Caporiacco 1955 is placed as incertae sedis and four new species are described: Vindullus undulatus new species, Vindullus gibbosus new species, both from Peru and Vindullus angulatus new species, from Colombia and Venezuela and Vindullus concavus new species from Brazil.
3706073|Wolf spiders, Pardosa lapidicina Emerton 1885, occupy cobble beaches along the tide line about Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island, USA, and move back and forth on the beaches with the tides. I compared the orientation and movement in the low intertidal of three groups with normal access to the entire intertidal zone and a group from the high intertidal prevented from using the low intertidal by a barrier of dense salt-marsh cordgrass Spartina alterniflora. They included a group captured in the high intertidal (High), one captured in the low intertidal (Low), one from the low intertidal but not captured (Observed), and one captured behind cordgrass (Cordgrass). The High group moved farther and more unidirectionally than the others, and the Cordgrass group exhibited the most variable orientation of the manipulated spiders. All groups exhibited a roughly southwesterly orientation from the release site. The Low and Observed groups moved shorter distances than the others, and High individuals appeared more strongly inclined to leave the low intertidal than individuals initially positioned there (Low, Observed). Thus, experience likely played a role in the orientation and movement of the spiders.
3705103|The genus Bochica Chamberlin is redefined based on a redescription of the type species, Bochica withi (Chamberlin). The new genus Troglobochica is defined, including two new species from caves in Jamaica.
25067810|Eupalestrus weijenberghi (Thorell 1894) and Acanthoscurria suina Pocock 1903 are two fossorial, sympatric, synchronic, and similar-sized species of tarantulas that inhabit the meadows of Uruguay. Both species use seismic signals for communicating during courtship (body vibrations in males, leg tapping in females), but little is known either about temporal and spectral signal characteristics or effective signal range. Males were elicited to court (body vibrations) by exposing them to sexual pheromones in one end of a terrarium, whereas females were successively placed in burrows at different distances from the courting male. Seismic male signals were registered by using a geophone placed near the females. We found that E. weijenberghi male signals reach at least 135.75 cm, whereas A. suina signals reach at least 110.5 cm. There was no correlation between latency of female response and distances at which the male was courting for either of the spider species. For A. suina, a bout of vibration was characterized by two syllables (tucks), followed by a series of syllables (buzz 1 and buzz 2). Eupalestrus weijenberghi males show several tucks, followed by buzz 1 and buzz 2. Differences in sexual signals (length of syllables and number of tucks) are assumed to maintain the reproductive isolation between these similar sized, sympatric and synchronic species. Similarities are seen in adaptations to the same environment, allowing effective rates of sexual communication at long distances.
25434301|Since the early 1990s managed realignment, where formerly reclaimed land is re-exposed to tidal inundation through breaching of coastal embankments, has been increasingly used throughout Northern Europe as a cost effective and sustainable response to biodiversity loss and flood management. This study aimed to evaluate the success of managed realignment schemes that resulted in salt-marsh development for the restoration of spider assemblages. Restoration of salt-marsh fauna was studied by comparing ground-active spiders between recently inundated land (3-14 years old) and pair-matched, adjacent natural salt marshes. Natural reference salt marshes were characterized by a relatively low species richness, the dominance of late-successional stage species such as Pirata piraticus (Clerck 1757), and the presence of species preferring a closed vegetation canopy like Arctosa fulvolineata (Lucas 1846) and Pardosa nigriceps (Thorell 1856). Restored habitats were characterized by greater species richness than in reference habitat and by the presence of halophilic species (Enoplognatha mordax (Thorell 1875) and Erigone longipalpis (Sundevall 1830)) and abundance of Pardosa purbeckensis (Westring 1861). These preliminary results argue for maintaining a maximum of successional stages in salt marshes, as they increase the diversity of halophilic spiders.
3705658|The life-history of an English population of the scorpion, Euscorpius flavicaudis, was studied using morphometric measures of over 300 specimens. The study hypothesizes seven instars. Evidence strongly suggests that there are two instars of adults: some males and females mature at the sixth instar and some at the seventh. Larger scorpions may have a higher per-season reproductive success but may have fewer reproductive seasons owing to the extra time needed to mature.
24717319|To obtain a reliable description of spider communities, robust sampling protocols are crucial. However, it remains unclear if descriptions of spider communities in tropical habitats require both day and night sampling. Here we tested whether sampling both day and night in high and low vegetation strata would lead to better diversity estimates of spider communities than sampling at only one period of the day. We determined spider taxonomic diversity in a network of 12 plots in French Guiana along a vegetation gradient. We found high alpha diversity of spiders as expected for a tropical area at every site. We showed strong differences in spider alpha and beta diversity between high and low vegetation strata, while they were similar between day and night sampling. Our results suggest that collecting spiders at only one period is sufficient to describe the diversity of spider communities across land use types in the neotropics.
3706052|We compared the abundance of spiders and predaceous insects in five central California vineyards. Spiders constituted 98.1% of all predators collected. More than 90% of all spiders collected were from eight species of spiders, representing six families. Two theridiids (Theridion dilutum and T. melanurum) were the most abundant, followed by a miturgid (Cheiracanthium inclusum) and an agelinid (Hololena nedra). Predaceous insects comprised 1.6% of all predators collected, and were represented by six genera in five families. Nabis americoferis (Heteroptera, Nabidae) was the most common predaceous insect, with its densities highest late in the growing season. Chrysoperla carnea, Chrysoperla comanche and Chrysopa oculata (Neuroptera, Chrysopidae) and Hippodamia convergens (Coleoptera, Coccinellidae) were most abundant early in the season. The dominance of spiders may be due to their more stable position in the vineyard predator community compared to predaceous insects. We also suggest that the low percentage of predaceous insects (e.g., lacewings) may reflect the lack of preferred prey (e.g., aphids) on grapevines.
25654002|A great number of spiders build orb-webs and although the overall structure is the result of fixed behavioral patterns, much small-scale inter- and intraspecific variation is nonetheless evident. Thus in order to fully understand the orb-web and web-building behavior in these spiders, we need to study substantial samples of many different species of orbweavers. However, to date only a few species have been rigorously studied both in the field and in the laboratory. Here, we investigate the ecology, behavior and orb-web of the neotropical spider Eustala illicita (O. Pickard-Cambridge 1889) and suggest it as suitable for further studies based on 1) the ease at which it can be located in abundant numbers in the field, 2) its willingness to build webs in the laboratory, 3) the plasticity of its behavior, and 4) its interesting ecology in the form of interactions with the swollen-thorn acacias and their ant mutualists. Here, we introduce its natural history and then provide a detailed description of orb-webs built in the field and in the laboratory, which we compare to other orb-spiders.
24365282|Triaeris stenaspis Simon 1891 is a parthenogenetic goblin spider that has been introduced into greenhouses all over Europe. Here we investigated its trophic niche and predatory behavior. Potential prey in the greenhouses included predominantly springtails, aphids, and other spiders. Out of ten potential prey types offered in the laboratory, T. stenapsis captured only three types, the primary one being springtails. The spider rarely caught the other two types, termites and crickets, and completely rejected beetles, ants, aphids, thrips, flies, spiders and mites. Triaeris stenaspis did not build webs for prey capture, but instead used the grasp-and-hold tactic. Prey-capture efficiency decreased with springtail body size, the spider using more than three bites to capture large springtails. Large springtails defended themselves by saltation with the spiders still attached to their backs. Our study supports the hypothesis that T. stenaspis is a specialized predator of springtails, being effective in the capture of this type of prey.
3705243|Species belonging to the opilionid genera Caddo, Acropsopilio, Austropsopilio and Cadella are herein considered to constitute the family Caddidae. The subfamily Caddinae contains the genus Caddo; the other genera are placed in the subfamily Acropsopilioninae. It is suggested that the palpatorid Opiliones be grouped in three superfamilies: Caddoidea (including the family Caddidae), Phalangioidea (including the families Phalangiidae, Liobunidae, Neopilionidae and Sclerosomatidae) and Troguloidea (including the families Trogulidae, Nemostomatidae, Ischyropsalidae and Sabaconidae). North American members of the Caddidae are discussed in detail, and a new species, Caddo pepperella, is described. The North American caddids appear to be mostly parthenogenetic, and C. pepperella is very likely a neotenic isolate of C. agilis. Illustrations and taxonomic notes are provided for the majority of the exotic species of the family.
3705865|Phidippus audax (Hentz 1845) was observed in the field and tested in a laboratory in order to estimate its use of two locally abundant, soft-bodied coleopteran species, Diabrotica undecimpunctata (Chrysomelidae, Galerucinae) and Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus (Cantharidae). In the field, Phidippus audax was most commonly observed hunting on leaves or stems of the common milkweed and feeding upon species of Diptera or Diabrotica undecimpunctata. Despite high densities of Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus, P. audax was never observed feeding upon this species. In laboratory feeding trials, P. audax always retreated from C. pennsylvanicus and always attacked D. undecimpunctata. Also, P. audax retreated from models displaying the markings of C. pennsylvanicus in 88% and attacked models displaying the markings of D. undecimpunctata in 85% of the laboratory trials.
3705857|In this paper we describe black-stripe phenotypes of the polymorphic theridiid Enoplognatha ovata (Clerck) found among reared broods and natural populations from coastal Maine. Among reared spiders, black stripes were deposited over the typical color phenotypes lineata, redimita and ovata, and appeared to assort independently of the typical color morphs. Black stripes occurred more frequently among males than females, although the difference in incidence between the sexes was not statistically significant. Among 17 natural populations, black-stripe morphs were far more frequent among males than females, suggesting the possibility that black striping is associated with sex determination in E. ovata.
3706317|Habitat ranges of ground-dwelling spiders were studied by pitfall trapping in and around a freshwater pond during the spring and summer of 1998 in central Alberta, Canada. Sixty species from 14 families were collected, and catches of several species suggested distinct habitat affinities along transects between the pond and adjacent terrestrial habitats. Variation in the catches of Pirata piraticus (Clerck 1757), Pardosa moesta Banks 1892, Pardosa fuscula (Thorell 1875), and immature Pirata species were partially explained by soil moisture at trap locations extending from the shore. We devised a "floating" pitfall trap that captured several species, including mature and immature Dolomedes triton (Walckenaer 1837), Pirata piraticus, and other immature Lycosidae, directly on the water surface. A DCA ordination revealed distinct spider assemblages were associated with three habitat types: 1) the water surface; 2) the moist habitats closely associated with the water's edge; and 3) the drier, terrestrial grassland habitats located >2 m from the shore. A new, more inclusive definition of semi-aquatic spiders was developed, based on knowledge about both male and female activity near the shore, and affinities towards soil moisture. Thus, Pirata piraticus, Dolomedes triton, and Pardosa fuscula were defined as semi-aquatic spiders.
3705704|Orb-web weaving spiders synthesize and use a variety of silks, each having different properties suited to their particular functions. Three of these silks were collected from two different species of spiders and subjected to physical/mechanical testing. The major ampullate (dragline), minor ampullate, and cocoon silks of both Nephila clavipes and Araneus gemmoides were load tested on an Instron Universal test frame to compare their physical properties. The single fibers of major, minor, and cocoon silk of Nephila appear to be more elastic than that of Araneus. Araneus silks, on the other hand, appear to be stronger, requiring a higher stress to break the fiber than that of Nephila.
3705149|Prey capture behavior of the desert scorpion Hadrurus arizonensis Ewing has been studied in the laboratory. Information about the behavior was obtained from analysis of ten 8mm movie films, and 50 direct observations of individual prey capture sequences. An ethogram was constructed which depicts the interrelationships between the discrete behavioral components; e.g., alert stance, grasp success, and sting. Most individuals also exhibit a pedipalpal sand thrust, which may function in a cleaning capacity.
3705628|A new phalangodid genus, Microcina, is described to accommodate Sitalcina tiburona Briggs and Hom and five new species (edgwoodensis, homi, jungi, leei, and lumi). The species are diagnosed and illustrated and their relationships hypothesized. The six species of Microcina, known only from the San Francisco Bay region, are all paedomorphs restricted to xeric habitats. Two species groups are present: the first (tiburona) is characterized by a unique form of sexual dimorphism (males have enlarged eye tubercles); the second (homi) by unique male genitalia, structurally intermediate between Calicina and the remaining Nearctic phalangodid genera.
25067822|The Asian wolf spider Arctosa subamylacea (Bsenberg & Strand 1906), originally described from Japan, is currently treated as a junior synonym of the European Arctosa stigmosa (Thorell 1875). However, both species differ noticeably in genital and somatic morphology. Here, we remove A. subamylacea from its synonymy with A. stigmosa and redescribe both species from material recently collected in Asia and Europe. Both species differ in their habitat preferences, as A. stigmosa typically inhabits gravel and sandy habitats in alluvial river floodplains, whereas A. subamylacea lives in low vegetation near hills and in agricultural areas, sometimes near ponds and lakesides.
4129881|New Zealand's endemic sand dune Latrodectus widow spider species, L. katipo and L. atritus, possess behavioral and physiological attributes likely to promote dispersal over large distances. Morphological, physiological and behavioral similarities between L. katipo and L. hasselti, an Australian endemic, suggest gene flow may occur across the Tasman Sea. In this study we examine intraspecific and interspecific genetic relationships within the ND1 gene region between L. katipo, L. atritus, L. hasselti and L. Hesperus to assess whether the genetic evidence supports current taxonomic species designations. We found low interspecific pairwise distances among L. katipo and L. atritus populations, suggesting either introgression, incomplete lineage sorting, or that the current taxonomic distinction between the two species may be invalid. Parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses were inconclusive as to the relationships between the New Zealand Latrodectus species and the Australian L. hasselti. Low pairwise distances between L. hasselti and the New Zealand widow fauna indicated that L. katipo and L. atritus were not present in New Zealand before the fragmentation of Gondwana.
24365284|The taxonomy of the cheliferid pseudoscorpion genus Chelifer Geoffroy 1762 is reviewed with a single cosmopolitan species, Chelifer cancroides (Linnaeus 1758), with the subspecies C. cancroides orientalis Morikawa 1954 from Japan newly synonymised with C. cancroides. Adults and the final two nymphal stages (tritonymph and deutonymph) are redescribed based on numerous specimens from Europe, North America, Asia and Australasia. The large size variation evident in the samples is documented. The latero-ventral process of the tarsal claws characteristically found in adults (except leg I of the male) is lacking in nymphs, a pattern that is also confirmed in the genera Lissochelifer Chamberlin 1932, Lophochernes Simon 1878 and Parachelifer Chamberlin 1932.
3704963|A revision has been carried out of the North American members of the genus Scotinotylus Simon. The generic names Caledonia Cambridge, Cervinargus Vogelsanger, Cheraira Chamberlin, Cochlembolus Crosby, Coreorgonal Crosby and Bishop and Yukon Chamberlin and Ivie are synonymized with Scotinotylus. Araeoncus patellatus Emerton, Ceratinopsis eutypa Chamberlin, Disembolus apache Chamberlin and "Erigone" bodenburgi Chamberlin and Ivie have been transferred to Scotinotylus, while Cochlembolus sacerdotalis Crosby and Bishop and Cochlembolus provo Chamberlin have been excluded from the genus. Scylaceus divisus Chamberlin is a synonym of Scotinotylus vernalis (Emerton), Cheraira willapa Chamberlin is a synonym of Scotinotylus monoceros (Simon), and Spirembolus chera Chamberlin and Ivie and Cheraira salmonis Chamberlin are synonyms of Scotinotylus sanctus (Crosby). The revised genus Scotinotylus has been defined chiefly on the structures of the male palpal organs and the female epigyna; synapomorphic genitalic characters have been identified. The genus contains 34 species in North America, including the following 17 new taxa: Scotinotylus ambiguus, S. bicavatus, S. bipoculatus, S. boreus, S. crinitus, S. dubiosus, S. exsectoides, S. gracilis, S. humilis, S. magnificus, S. montanus, S. petulcus, S. pollucis, S. regalis, S. sacratus, S. sagittatus and S. sintalutus. The genus is subdivided into three species groups, the antennatus, kenus and monoceros groups. Members of the genus are distributed throughout the cooler latitudes of the northern hemisphere, but the majority of the species appear to be endemic to North America. Decriptions, diagnoses and distribution maps are given for each species.
25067841|Cynorta conspersa (Perty 1833), the type species of Cynorta Koch 1839, is redescribed, based on abundant material from the lower Amazon basin, Brazil. A neotype is designated for this species and the species Cynorta mayi Mello-Leito 1931 is herein considered a junior subjective synonym. Genital morphology of the species is described for the first time. An effort has been made to detect diagnostic characters for the genus Cynorta, which was used in many different senses in the past and includes a large number of unrelated Neotropical species. /// Es redescrita Cynorta conspersa (Perty 1833), especie tipo del gnero, con base en abundante material proveniente de la cuenca del bajo Amazonas de Brasil. Es designado un neotipo para esta especie y la especie Cynorta mayi Mello-Leito 1931 es considerada como su sinnimo junior subjetivo. La morfologa genital es descrita por primera vez. Ha sido hecho un esfuerzo para detectar caracteres diagnsticos del gnero Cynorta, el cual fue usado en el pasado con muchos significados diferentes, incluyendo un gran nmero de especies neotropicales no relacionadas.
3705875|The life history and habitat preference of the wolf spider Gladicosa pulchra were investigated in several populations in Mississippi. Gladicosa pulchra has a one year life cycle with spiders changing from forest floor to tree trunk habitats in late summer or early fall. During the fall, spiders were found almost exclusively on trees (93% of observed spiders in 1989 and 80% of observed spiders in 1990). Males were observed to inhabit trees earlier in the year than females. Spiders did not climb trees smaller than 2 cm in diameter at breast height. Most individuals were collected at heights less than 2.5 m, and spiders were primarily oriented face down while on trees. The role that environmental factors play in this animal's habitat preference is discussed.
41317217|Web-building spiders form a major component of the generalist predator fauna in arable fields. They have been purported to contribute to the biological control of pests such as aphids and leafhoppers. However, their successful contribution to pest suppression is contingent upon their ability to adapt to highly-disturbed agroecosystems. We examined the population dynamics of these important natural enemies to compare phenological patterns in relation to crop cycles among species in an alfalfa agroecosystem using quadrat-based sampling and time-series analysis. Three common species of web-building spiders had generation times similar to the duration of a crop cycle (31 to 44 days), with peak abundances of adult spiders occurring at 15-18 days after harvest. The timing of these peaks corresponds with the critical early phase of the pest population cycle, during which natural enemies can have the maximum impact on pest populations, suggesting that these spiders are capable of contributing to pest suppression as part of an assemblage of natural enemies.
25434321|Quantifying primary sex ratios is necessary for studies in a wide range of areas including adaptive sex ratio modification, population demography, and sex-biased developmental mortality. Adult and penultimate male spiders are easy to sex, due to the great thickening of the male pedipalps, which are used for delivering sperm to the female reproductive tract. However, in many spider species, males and females are apparently monomorphic at hatching, are difficult to rear, and cannibalize their siblings, making assessment of primary sex ratios problematic. One technique for sexing spiders is karyotyping, but this can be challenging and time-consuming, particularly for species with high fecundity, and often requires destructive sampling. Here we report that, although apparently monomorphic, early-instar juveniles of two species of black widow spiders (Latrodectus hasselti Thorell 1870 and Latrodectus hesperus Chamberlin & Ivie 1935) can be sexed reliably. Palp width measurements are significantly different for males and females at the 3rd instar, with the palpi of juvenile females thinner than those of males. Moreover, sex identification with 89-100% accuracy can be achieved by an experienced observer visually inspecting the palpi of 3rd instar spiderlings under a dissecting microscope. Our results suggest that minimal investment in a pilot study can yield an accurate method for sexing juvenile spiders in the laboratory or field. The suitability of this method should be examined in other species with apparently monomorphic spiderlings, particularly those in which adult males have significantly enlarged palpi.
3706051|We investigated host specificity, the effects of host size, and the effects of the size, structure and occupancy of host webs on the abundance of the kleptobiotic spider Argyrodes antipodianus O.P.-Cambridge 1880. The kleptobiont is not host specific, but does prefer orb webs that are surrounded by a scaffold of threads (barrier-web). Across all hosts, host size had little effect on the abundance of the kleptobiont, while host density and the presence of other species of Argyrodes on webs had no effect. Web diameter, although not strongly related to the abundance of A. antipodianus in the field, limited kleptobiont numbers in greenhouse experiments. On webs of the Golden Orb Spider, Nephila plumipes (Latreille 1804), numbers of A. antipodianus were not affected by size of the scaffold or by aggregation of host webs. However, presence of host males was associated with a significantly higher abundance of A. antipodianus, suggesting that these kleptoparasites may take advantage of distracted females and impose a cost on mating in N. plumipes.
3706015| The male of the Florida funnel-web building wolf spider species Sosippus placidus Brady 1972 is described and figured for the first time. Analysis of the male palp's morphological structure reveals that Sosippus possesses a median apophysis like other members of the Araneoclada, but which of the three additional tegular apophyses is the conductor cannot be determined at present. The study demonstrates that the palea, the putative key apomorphy of the clade Venoniinae-Allocosinae-Pardosinae-Lycosinae requires further morphological analysis. The genus Porrimosa is a close relative of the genus Sosippus based on shared characters in the male palp. The ontogeny of the female copulatory organs of Sosippus agrees with that of other members in the RTA clade. Hippasella nitida Mello-Leito 1944, placed by Capocasale (1990) in the genus Sosippus, is not recognized as a congener. 
3705316|Overwintering success of the filmy dome spider Prolinyphia marginata (Koch) [= Neriene radiata (Walckenaer) and Linyphia marginata Koch] was observed with respect to stage of development and differences in body weight within a stage. Studies conducted in three different areas measured winter survivorship rates of 60 spiders housed in outdoor cages (Michigan), 243 spiders in outdoor jars (Maryland), and 245 spiders in a combination of cages and jars (New York). The overall proportion of spiders successfully overwintering was 0.31 in New York, 0.69 in Maryland, and 0.75 in Michigan. All three studies showed that older stages (instars) had substantially higher survival rates than younger stages. Comparison between the autumn weights of overwintering survivors and non-survivors indicated that differences in spider weight within a stage had no significant influence on winter survival. These experimental studies suggest that overwintering mortality may be significant in natural populations of P. marginata, and that different overwintering survival rates among stages can alter the composition of the population.
25067821|The sparassid genus Macrinus Simon 1887 is revised, the type species, M. succineus Simon 1887, is redescribed and Olios pollexensis Schenkel 1953 is transferred to the genus. Females are described and illustrated for the first time. Macrinus milleri Caporiacco 1955 is placed as incertae sedis and a new species, Macrinus jaegeri, is described from the states of Par and Mato Grosso, Brazil.
3706387|The relationship between running speed and flight distance is an important one in terms of escape from predators, especially in species that may have multiple defensive strategies. In the wolf spider Hogna carolinensis, one important antipredator mechanism is flight. We examined the relationship between sprint speed and flight distance in wolf spiders by measuring sprint speed on a running track and, in a separate set of experiments with the same individual spiders, measured the distance at which they fled from an advancing model predator. Sprint speed was not significantly correlated with mass, size, or sex of the spiders. Sprint speed was positively correlated with flight distance. This correlation may be the result of a trade-off between two competing modes of antipredator mechanisms: escape and crypsis. In individuals with higher sprint speeds, escape may be the more advantageous option. Slower individuals may have a greater chance of surviving an encounter with a predator simply by remaining still and relying on crypsis.
3705287|Both in the laboratory and in the field prey capture did not have a strong influence upon web-site tenacity of Argiope aurantia. But experimental web destruction increased the probability that A. aurantia changed its web-site, perhaps only due to the physical displacement of the spider. Removal of vegetation near the web of immature A. aurantia resulted in most of these spiders leaving their web-sites, especially in areas less sheltered from the wind. Argiope trifasciata, in contrast, did not leave web-sites after removal of nearby vegetation.
3706234| A distinctive new troglobitic scorpion of the genus Typhlochactas Mitchell from Stano de Poncho near Municipio Tlaquilpa, Veracruz, Mexico is described and compared to the other members of the genus from the eastern ranges of the Sierra Madre Oriental. 
4149981|Two new synonyms are established in Salticidae: Menemerus falconensis Schenkel 1953 is designated as a junior synonym of Freya infuscata (F.O. Pickard-Cambridge 1901); and Phiale albovittata Schenkel 1953 is designated as a junior synonym of Freya perelegans Simon 1902. In addition, the new combination Cotinusa furcifera (Schenkel 1953) is proposed for Breda furcifera Schenkel 1953.
3705786|Fieldwork on Andros Island produced two species of phrynid amblypygi, Phrynus marginemaculatus and Paraphrynus viridiceps. New localities and biological data are presented. The species were found to be completely sympatric in two of the three localities where they were collected. The presence of amblypygi in the Bahamas is attributed to Recent dispersal from Cuba via Paleoprovidence, a land mass which emerged during the lower sea-levels accompanying Pleistocene glacials. Dispersal from Florida and Hispaniola is rejected. Significant isometric or allometric relationships between median prosomal length and pedipalp tibia length were not detected. The work generally points to the lack of much basic information on amblypygid distribution and bionomics.
3705722|The influence of web morphology and allometry on respiration and energetics was investigated in the purse-web spider, Sphodros abboti. Carbon dioxide and oxygen concentrations in gas samples from underground portions of the nest where these spiders normally reside did not differ significantly from those in atmospheric air. Web dimensions such as length, diameter, and surface area scaled geometrically to body size. The scaling of these relationships differed from expected. Since the surface area of the web functions in prey detection, I anticipated it would scale in parallel with increases in energy demand that accompany size increases. Rates of oxygen consumption serve as an index of the latter and scale in direct proportion to body size whereas web surface area scales only to the two-thirds power. The weight of the web scaled to a power less than predicted by simple geometry, a result interpreted as an adaptation towards reducing costs of web construction. These results and comparisons suggest the web and its morphology do not restrict respiratory gas exchange nor limit energy acquisition in this species. Conversely, the standard rates of metabolism in this species were not higher than those of related species that also burrow but do not use a web for prey capture.
3705364|North and Central American species of Microbisium were discussed. M. confusum (Hoff) was proposed as a junior synonym for M. parvulum (Banks) based on overlapping diagnostic characteristics. t Tests were used to compare means of palpal podomeres from different geographic regions. The type locality for M. parvulum was redesignated as North America. A second species, M. brunneum (Hagen) remained distinct based on its larger palpal podomeres.
3706197| Brattia species (Linyphiidae) from Africa and the Philippines are not congeneric with the type species of Brattia. The type species of the genus, Brattia spadicaria Simon, and other Neotropical Brattia species were recently transferred to Sphecozone O. Pickard-Cambridge; Old World Brattia species were explicitly excluded from Sphecozone. Sphecozone spadicaria and Old World Brattia species are redescribed and illustrated. Brattia africana Simon is transferred to Pachydelphus Jocqu & Bosmans; B. scutilla is transferred to Apobrata new genus; B. dubia is transferred to the theridiid genus Anelosimus Simon. 
3705641|Two new species of Aphonopelma from the Mojave Desert are described, A. joshua and A. mojave. Four nominal species, Aphonopelma iodium (A. iodius), A. melanium (A. melanius), A. angusi, A. nevadanum, described from the Mojave Desert and the Great Basin are treated as a single species; Aphonopelma iodium (Chamberlin 1939) is proposed as the species name since it is one of two possible senior synonyms (the other, A. melanium (A. melanius) in the same publication) and is the specific name of the first Theraphosidae to be described from the Mojave Desert; A. iodium is redescribed. Generic, subgeneric, and specific characters previously used to separate Aphonopelma are reviewed. Aphonopelma is redefined; Clavopelma is removed from the synonymy of Aphonopelma. The status of the following eight species described prior to 1939 with type localities either in the United States or in Baja, California is discussed: Aphonopelma californica, A. leiogaster (Doleschall), A. steindachneri (Ausserer), A. rusticum, A. marxi, A. helluo (Simon), A. rileyi (Marx), and A. pseudoroseum (Strand). Aphonopelma steindachneri, A. rusticum, A. marxi, and A. helluo are considered as valid species; A. californica, A. leiogaster, A. rileyi, and A. pseudoroseum are considered as nomina dubia.
3705082|Heteronebo granti Pocock, and Heteronebo forbesii Pocock are redescribed and lectotypes designated. The two subfamilies of Diplocentridae are recognized, and briefly diagnosed polythetically for the first time: Nebinae is monotypic, and apparently endemic to the Middle East; Diplocentrinae is polytypic, and apparently confined to the New World, with the exception of Heteronebo which is endemic to the small island of Abd-el-Kuri, Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen. Taxonomic, systematic, and biogeographic problems presented by Heteronebo spp. are discussed.
23070798|Two cases of paternal care are described for species of the genus Stenostygnellus (Stygnidae), S. flavolimbatus Roewer 1913 and S. aff. flavolimbatus, both from Venezuela. Males of both species guard multiple clutches containing a large number of eggs, which are laid under rotting logs (S. flavolimbatus) or in the base of palm petioles (S. aff. flavolimbatus). These records probably represent a new and independently evolved case of paternal care in harvestmen.
3705507| Five new species of Neocteniza are described: N. spinosa, N. minima, N. toba and N. australis from Argentina, and N. platnicki from Paraguay. N. toba and N. australis together are proposed as the sister group of all other species of Neocteniza. Some biological data of these trapdoor spiders are given. /// Se describen cinco especies nuevas de Neocteniza: N. spinosa, N. minima, N. toba y N. australis de Argentina, y N. platnicki de Paraguay. N. toba y N. australis juntas son propuestas como grupo hermano de todas las dems especies de Neocteniza. Se dan algunos datos biolgicos de estas araas albailes. 
24717330|Female wolf spider silk is known to elicit searching and courtship behavior among adult males, however variation in the types of silk females deposit, the context in which it occurs, and the role of male silk in courtship displays and female responses has rarely been examined. We measured male Pardosa milvina (Hentz 1844) silk deposition while performing courtship displays. We then examined whether female silk deposition changes when encountering silk produced from a courting rather than a non-courting male and compared these conditions to female silk deposition in the absence of male silk. We measured the quantity of three different types of silk (draglines, cord silk, and attachment disks) deposited by females across substrates previously occupied by a courting male, a non-courting male, or no male. Females significantly increased attachment disk deposition in the presence of silk from a courting rather than a non-courting male. Females also showed elevated dragline deposition in the presence of male silk but whether or not the male was courting had no effect on dragline deposition. Female cord silk deposition did not vary across treatments. Courting males produced significantly fewer attachment disks than non-courting males while dragline and cord silk deposition did not vary. We conclude that females can discriminate between silk from courting and non-courting males and increase attachment disk deposition in the presence of courting males. The number of male attachment disks deposited may be one mechanism by which females can discriminate between silk produced by courting rather than non-courting males.
24365290|The natural prey of medium-sized juvenile (ca. 3 mm) crab spiders Xysticus marmoratus Thorell 1875 inhabiting Eryngium biebersteinianum plants was studied on the Absheron Peninsula, Azerbaijan. The percentage of specimens found feeding on prey was low (3.4%). Xysticus marmoratus is a polyphagous predator with representatives of four arthropod orders found in its diet. The primary food of X. marmoratus was ants (Formicidae), which accounted for 83.3% of the total number of prey. The length of prey killed by X. marmoratus ranged between 0.877.50 mm (mean 2.96 mm) and constituted from 28.5300.0% (mean 96.9%) of the length of their captors. The most frequently captured size group of prey was 5070% the length of the spiders.
3704994|Dextro-amphetamine and diazepam were administered orally to the spider Araneus diadematus. Thread connections from the spider's orb web were examined by photomicroscopy. Amphetamine altered fine structure but diazepam did not. Results are discussed in terms of disturbed spinning behavior.
3705846| Hurieae is a group of five genera defined by the combined presence of the following characters: small chelicerae with three to five teeth on promargin and one tooth on retromargin; fourth leg much longer than third; third ocular row wider or at least equal to first row; narrow clypeus; two or three tibial retrolateral apophyses. Revised diagnosis of Scoturius Simon and Atelurius Simon and the redescription of Atelurius segmentatus Simon are given. The male of S. tigris is described for the first time. Atelurius incertus Banks is transferred to Zygoballus as a new combination. Two new genera are described: (1) Admesturius n. gen. with two species, A. schajovskoyi n. sp. and A. bitaeniatus (Simon) n. comb., the female of which is described for the first time, (2) Simonurius n. gen. with four species: Simonurius gladiferus (Simon) n. comb., S. campestratus (Simon) n. comb., S. quadratarius (Simon) n. comb. and S. expers n. sp. /// Hurieae es un grupo de cinco gneros, definido por la presencia combinada de los siguientes caracteres: quelceros pequeos con tres a cinco dientes en promargen y un diente en retromargen; cuarta pata ms larga que la tercera; tercera hilera ocular ms ancha o al menos igual a la primera hilera; clpeo angosto; dos o tres apfisis tibiales retrolaterales. Se dan las diagnosis revisadas de Scoturius Simon y Atelurius Simon, y la redescripcin de Atelurius segmentatus Simon. El macho de S. tigris se describe por primera vez. Atelurius incertus Banks se transfiere a Zygoballus como nueva combinacin. Se describen dos gneros nuevos: (1) Admesturius n. gen. con dos especies, A. schajovskoyi n. sp. y A. bitaeniatus (Simon) n. comb. de la cual se describe la hembra por primera vez, (2) Simonurius n. gen. con cuatro especies: Simonurius gladiferus (Simon) n. comb., S. campestratus (Simon) n. comb., S. quadratarius (Simon) n. comb. y S. expers n. sp. 
3705577|Karyotypes are reported for 17 species from eight families of spiders from Texas and Missouri. Chromosomal counts (2N) are as follows: Araneidae-Eustala emertoni, 24; Gnaphosidae-Cesonia sincera, 22 and 24; Nodocion floridanus, 24; Loxoscelidae-Loxosceles reclusa, 18 and 20; Lycosidae-Lycosa rabida, 28 and 30; Oxyopidae-Oxyopes scalaris, 21; Philodromidae-Tibellus duttoni, 29; Salticidae-Maevia inclemens, 27 and 28; Marpissa pikei, 28; Metaphidippus galathea, 27 and 28; Peckhamia americana, 22 and 24; Phidippus audax, 28 and 30; Phidippus texanus, 28 and 30; Platycryptus undatus, 28 and 30; Salticus austinesis, 28 and 30; Tutelina elegans, 27 and 28; and Theridiidae-Steatoda triangulosa, 22 and 24.
23048791|We used data from 33 species of cursorial spiders in northern Mississippi (USA) to investigate the relative contributions of ecology and phylogeny to the reproductive trade-off between number and size of offspring. Sixty percent of the variation among genera for female reproductive allocation was due to differences between the family Pisauridae and the family Lycosidae. Temporal variation in reproductive allocation during the reproductive season was not observed for the majority of species examined. We found significantly different patterns of reproductive allocation among species within genera, suggesting that each species has responded to distinct selection pressures. Preliminarily, this extensive variation appears to be due mostly to interspecific competition and predation risk from other spiders. However, the patterns of reproductive allocation of species within a single guild (i.e., a group of species potentially competing for the same resources) for the two families are very different. Larger species of wolf spiders (family Lycosidae) within a given guild produce smaller numbers of larger offspring relative to the size of the mother, and smaller species produce the reverse. However, in nursery-web spiders (family Pisauridae) the larger species within a guild produce larger numbers of smaller offspring than expected. The current study provides an example of the flexibility of life history evolution despite phylogenetic constraints. It also demonstrates the potential for varying life history strategies to mediate competition, allowing similar species to coexist.
25067876|The genus Dyrines, is revised for the first time since Simon provided the name in 1903 to replace the preoccupied Drances. A female lectotype is designated for the type species, Dyrines striatipes (Simon 1898), which is redescribed and illustrated. The holotype of D. taeniatus Mello-Leito 1943 is a tiny spiderling and is considered a nomen dubium. Dyrines lineatipes Petrunkevitch 1925 is regarded as a junior synonym of D. striatipes. Dyrines rubriosignatus Mello-Leito 1943 is transferred to the genus Thaumasia, resulting in Thaumasia rubrosignata (Mello-Leito 1943b), new combination. Two new species are described and illustrated: D. huanuco from Huanuco, Peru, and D. ducke from Reserva Florestal Adolfo Ducke near Manaus, Brazil.
24717312|The Nannowithius group of the pseudoscorpion family Withiidae is newly defined, consisting of Nannowithius Beier, 1932 from northern Africa and the Middle East, and Termitowithius Muchmore, 1990 from east Africa. The group is characterized by the lack of a tactile seta on the posterior tarsi, and they are the only withiids to possess this character state. Both genera are associated as inquilines with social insects, Nannowithius with ants and Termitowithius with termites. Withius caecus Beier, 1929 and Plesiowithius dekeyseri Vachon, 1954 are redescribed and transferred to the genus Nannowithius, forming the new combinations N. caecus (Beier) and N. dekeyseri (Vachon). Plesiowithius is treated as a new synonym of Nannowithius. A revised description and new illustrations of Termitowithius kistneri Muchmore, 1990 are presented.
3705755|Ground surface spiders were pitfall-trapped every two months in pond pine, sand pine scrub, and flatwoods plant communities on the University of Central Florida campus near Orlando from May, 1983 to March, 1984. Eight-two species and 2,326 individuals were collected: 57 species and 1,094 individuals in pond pine, 42 species and 851 individuals in sand pine scrub, and 48 species and 381 individuals in flatwoods community. Spider diversity was greatest in pond pine, followed by sand pine scrub, and then flatwoods community. Similarity in spider species was greatest between pond pine and flatwoods, followed by sand pine scrub and flatwoods, and then pond pine and sand pine scrub. A new species of Drassyllus (Gnaphosidae) was collected in the flatwoods and a range extension for Zora pumila (Zoridae) was recorded in pond pine.
3706002|Assemblages of spider species can make significant reductions in pest numbers that are of value to the farmer. A group of spider species with complementary niches leaves few refuges for the pest in space or time. Spiders usually exert an influence on pest numbers in concert with other natural enemies, and spiders are sometimes the dominant component. In addition to killing pests by direct attack, spiders cause pest mortality by dislodging them from plants or trapping them in webs. If the pest is distasteful, or if it is the dominant prey type available, spiders may kill more than they consume, which increases the rate of pest kill per unit of spider food demand. The implications for pest control, of various types of interaction between spiders and other natural enemies, are explored in this paper. Interactions with specialist natural enemies usually result in complementary effects, enhancing pest control. Specialists reduce the density of pests to levels where spiders can prevent resurgence. Specialists foraging on the crop may flush pests off the plant to be killed by ground-zone spiders. Although hyperpredation (i.e., predators killing other predators) may disrupt biological control occasionally, it is considered that the wide range of competitive interactions between natural enemies, in general, promotes diversity and stability of the natural enemy community and generates a robust basis for pest control.
3705359|Tityus crassimanus (Thorell, 1877), originally described from one adult female from "Mexico," is redescribed and its geographic distribution is revised to the Caribbean island of Hispaniola. Tityus antillanus (Thorell, 1877), originally described from two juveniles from the "Antilles," is a junior synonym of T. crassimanus. Tityus crassimanus appears to be most closely related to Tityus michelii Armas, from Puerto Rico. Tityus obtusus (Karsch, 1879), from Puerto Rico, has been confused with, and erroneously suspected of being a junior synonym of T. crassimanus.
4489048|We review the systematics of the tetragnathid spider genus Sancus Tullgren, hitherto known from a single species from Kilimanjaro. The type species Sancus bilineatus Tullgren is redescribed and diagnosed from the only other known species, S. acoreensis (Wunderlich) new combination. Leucognatha Wunderlich is a junior synonym of Sancus, which thus eliminates two monotypic tetragnathid genera. A phylogenetic analysis of 15 tetragnathid and eight outgroup genera confirms the monophyly of Sancus and places it precisely in Tetragnathidae. We discuss the phylogenetic relationships among tetragnathid genera and the peculiar biogeography of Sancus, now known from east African mountains (Kilimanjaro and Mt. Kenya) and from the Azores in the northeastern Atlantic.
3705919|A survey of the spiders associated with northern California rice fields was conducted to identify potential biological-control agents of rice feeding insects and mosquitoes. All of the 28 species were collected on the levees; however, only 10 of these were taken in the paddies. Pardosa ramulosa (McCook), Pirata piraticus (Clerck) and two linyphiid spp. were common throughout the agroecosystem. These spiders exhibited a seasonal succession in relative abundance within the paddy during the growing season. Pardosa ramulosa was dominant both on the levees and in the paddies. It comprised ca. 58 and 68% of the fauna in these respective areas. We suggest that the flooded paddies may serve as a refuge for the semiaquatic P. ramulosa during the dry summer months and that its abundance in California rice fields is due in part to the similarity of this agroecosystem to the native, pre-agricultural habitat.
3705342|Members of Hyptiotes cavatus construct vertical triangle-webs, consisting of only four radii spanned by capture threads. Spiderlings began constructing triangle capture webs only as third instars. In the laboratory male and female development was synchronous, most individuals maturing as sixth instars, at which time males ceased constructing capture webs. Capture webs were usually constructed only during the first sixty percent of a developmental stadium. Males and females reared in large containers produced more webs during and spent more time in the fifth stadium than those reared in small containers with more closely spaced supports. Development and web production of earlier instars were not significantly influenced by container size.
24717322|The ambient temperature of an environment has potential to influence many aspects of the behavior and physiology of small-bodied ectotherms, including brush-legged wolf spiders Schizocosa ocreata (Hentz, 1844) (Araneae: Lycosidae). Temperature varies significantly, and often unpredictably, in their habitat throughout the spring breeding season, and is known to influence male Schizocosa courtship behavior. Currently unknown is what effect fluctuations in ambient temperature alone might have on critical, non-behavioral sexual signals such as female silk and chemical cues. We collected cues from mature, virgin females and subjected each sample to one of three thermal treatments (40C, 20C, or -12C), at constant humidity. We presented treated female cues to mature males and recorded male response across treatment types as a behavioral indicator of signal degradation. There were no significant differences across treatments in the frequency or duration of male behaviors, including critical courtship and exploratory behaviors. Our results suggest that thermally induced degradation of female sexual signals is negligible for this species and likely has little or no influence on male behavior.
3706337| The southern African species of Parabuthus Pocock 1890 are reviewed. Twenty valid species are recognized and an illustrated key is provided for their identification. The diagnosis of each species is revised, its known distributional range summarized, and notes on its ecology and conservation provided. Three species are redescribed and their distributions mapped: P. calvus Purcell 1898; P. capensis (Ehrenberg 1831); P. planicauda (Pocock 1896). Six new synonyms are proposed: Buthus brevimanus var.  segnis Thorell 1876 = P. granulatus (Ehrenberg 1831); Buthus villosus var.  dilutus Thorell 1876 = P. raudus (Simon 1888); P. granulatus strenuus Hewitt 1918 = P. granulatus (Ehrenberg 1831); P. capensis frenchi Purcell 1901 = P. planicauda (Pocock 1889); Scorpio teter Mller 1828 = P. transvaalicus Purcell 1899; P. brachystylus Lawrence 1928 = P. villosus (Peters 1862). Two species, synonymized by previous authors, but subsequently resurrected, are returned to synonymy: P. neglectus Purcell 1899 = P. capensis (Ehrenberg 1831), first synonymized by Kraepelin (1908); P. flavidus Pocock 1899 = P. mossambicensis (Peters 1861), first synonymized by Kraepelin (1914). 
3705868| Three new species of Selenops (Araneae, Selenopidae) are described and illustrated, S. ducke and S. kikay (from both sexes) and S. para (from the female only), from northern Brazil. /// Se describe e ilustra tres nuevas especies de Selenops (Araneae, Selenopidae), S. ducke y S. kikay (conocidas por ambos sexos) y S. para (slo por la hembra), para el norte de Brasil. 
23610247|Melanopa zhui, a new species from Hunan Province, China, is described. M. grandis Roewer 1910 and M. wangi Zhu & Song 1999 are redescribed. The morphological characters and male genitalia of the three species are illustrated.
40233820|The harvestman fauna was studied along an altitudinal gradient on the southern slope of Lefka Ori Mountains, Crete, Greece for one year. Four sampling areas were defined at 800, 1200, 1600, and 2000 m elevation and they were sampled with pitfall traps that were emptied at monthly intervals. In total, six species were collected: Histricostoma creticum (Roewer 1927), Lacinius insularis Roewer 1923, Graecophalangium cretaeum Martens 1966, Opilio insulae Roewer 1956, Rafalskia cretica (Roewer 1923) and Leiobunum ghigii Di Caporiacco 1929. Species richness was the same (5 spp.) at the three lower zones and then declined to three species at 2000 m. Catches were more than double at this elevation. Differences of phenological patterns were observed among species and among altitudinal zones within the same species. High activity during spring and autumn and a summer recession were characteristic of most taxa. Opiliones did not seem strongly affected by the severe harshness of climatic conditions at higher elevations, as observed in other taxa, indicating a strong physiological tolerance and/or behavioral adaptation in order to withstand environmental stress.
3705574|An analysis of 29 faunal surveys of spiders found in nine field crops in the United States indicates the presence of 614 species in 192 genera and 26 families. These species represent 19% of the ca. 3311 species occurring in North America. Five families included 61% of the species reported in field crops: Salticidae (89 spp.), Linyphiidae (78), Araneidae (77), Theridiidae (64), and Lycosidae (62). Considerably more species have been observed in cotton (308 spp.), soybean (262), and alfalfa (233) than in guar (52), rice (75), and grain sorghum (88). Intermediate numbers of species have been observed in peanuts (131), corn (136), and sugarcane (137). The North American spider fauna is estimated at the species level to be 59% web-spinners and 41% wanderers, while those reported from field crops are estimated to be 44% web-spinners and 56% wanderers. These differences may be attributable to guild characteristics associated with dispersal and ability to survive in disturbed habitats. The 42 most frequently occurring spider species were considered in detail and demonstrated that the active wandering guild comprised the largest portion (45%) of this group. Orb-web (21%), sheet-web (19%), ambush-wander (10%), and web-matrix (5%) spiders represented other guilds. The most frequently occurring species in field crops were Oxyopes salticus Hentz (Oxyopidae), Phidippus audax (Hentz) (Salticidae), and Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz (Araneidae). These three species are prime candidates for augmentation and conservation in field crops or in adjacent habitats as part of a strategy to increase predation on crop pests.
4489069|Regurgitation from adult females towards juveniles is a well known phenomenon in social spiders. However, occasional observations in Anelosimus cf. studiosus from Uruguay showed the occurrence of food transfer also between large juveniles. We experimentally tested if well fed penultimate females were capable of regurgitating fluids to starved males, and if well fed penultimate males were capable of regurgitating fluids to starved females. Other isolated and starved penultimate males and females were used as controls. Starved males and females of the experimental groups significantly increased their body weight, whereas body weight decreased in controls. Males increased their weight more than females. We conclude that both well fed penultimate males and females can feed other starved subadults, but when given access to members of the opposite sex, males benefit than females. This bias in the regurgitation exchange among subadults could contribute to accelerate the maturation of males.
3706046| Five species of Enoplognatha Pavesi 1880 were recently recognized as a monophyletic Enoplognatha ovata group based on morphological data. We analyzed the E. ovata clade for monophyly using four species in the E. ovata group (E. ovata (Clerck 1757), E. latimana Hippa & Oksala 1982, E. margarita Yaginuma 1964 and E. afrodite Hippa & Oksala 1983) and three other closely related taxa (E. japonica Bsenberg & Strand 1906, E. thoracica (Hahn 1833), and E. intrepida Srensen 1898). Two species of the presumed sister genus (Steatoda Sundevall 1833) were employed as outgroups. The results indicate that the "E. ovata clade" is not monophyletic. 
3706066|We studied the phenology and the daily activity patterns of Pardosa milvina Hentz 1844 and Hogna helluo (Walckenaer 1837) in replicated soybean fields in southwest Ohio over three years (1994-1996) using pitfall traps. For the phenology study we established an array of five pitfall traps in 12 replicate 0.42 ha fields. These traps were either set for two days at two-week intervals (1994), or for three days at three-week intervals (1995 & 1996), over the field season from May-October on a total of 20 trap dates. We found that P. milvina was more common overall, and found evidence for one population peak per year. Numbers of H. helluo tended to be lowest in the earlier censuses, and we found evidence for one peak of male activity per year. The immature male and female, and adult female H. helluo were larger (based on carapace width) than the immature male and female, and adult female P. milvina on most trapping dates. For the circadian activity periodicity study we used two different drift-fence trap designs, both with dry-cup pitfall traps set for two or three days and checked at 12 h intervals. For three sampling periods in 1994 we found H. helluo to be more frequently trapped at night, and for two sampling periods P. milvina was more frequently trapped during the daylight hours.
41317227|Detailed morphologies of the male copulatory organs of the Australian genera Anzacia, Intruda, Encoptarthria and Zelanda and the Holarctic genus Drassodes are presented. The homology of several palpal elements within the family Gnaphosidae is established. The possible homology of these structures with those in other spider families is discussed. The ground plan of the gnaphosoid genital bulb is compared with the bulb of other Entelegynae genera. Australasian spider genera have a peculiar organization of the male palpal organs. Thus, the Holarctic genus Drassodes was also analyzed for comparison. The analysis of the male copulatory organs is presented and its implication for classification of these groups is discussed. The taxonomic changes we make here are the transfer of four species from the genus Megamyrmaekion to genus Encoptarthria: E. echemophthalma (Simon 1908), E. penicillata (Simon 1908), E. perpusilla (Simon 1908), and E. vestigator (Simon 1908). One species is transferred from genus Echemus to genus Encoptarthria'. E. grsea (L. Koch 1873). New synonymy established: Encoptarthria echemophthalmum (Simon 1908) = Encoptarthria serventyi Main 1954, syn. n.
3705176|The genera Miagrammopes (sensu stricto), Ranguma, Huanacauria, Mumaia, and Miagrammopsidis are synonymized to reform the traditional genus Miagrammopes. This genus is a sister group of Hyptiotes and is characterized by construction of a single-line web, loss of the anterior eyes, a carapace with lateral apodemes and flexible anterior margins, a divided sternum, and a male palpus with a radix that has taken over the conductor's function. Cladistic analysis divides Miagrammopes into eight species groups that do not correspond to previous genera. Major patterns of diversity result from differences in eye and lateral apodeme position, thoracic region and abdominal lengths, and sternum width.
20617595|When species with similar morphological and ecological characteristics occupy the same habitat, selection should minimize resource competition and promote coexistence by means of spatial partitioning. Competing species might exploit resources at different times or specialize in distinct resources. From July 2005 through May 2006 we examined the niche axes of two endemic sympatric desert species, Syspira tigrina Simon 1885 and Syspira longipes Simon 1885 in the State of Baja California Sur, looking for evidence that coexistence is fostered by differences in choice of microhabitat, temporal activity, occupation of space, or size. The results show high monthly microhabitat overlap (> 0.9). However, we found subtle differences in temporal activity and marked differences in juvenile and male body size, as well as some evidence of mutual spatial segregation. We conclude that body size and spatial segregation appear to be the dominant niche axes that facilitate coexistence of these species.
4129803|Nephila ?hirta Taczanowski 1873 was described from French Guiana, but is currently listed under Nephilengys L. Koch. It is here redescribed and transferred from Nephilinae (Tetragnathidae)* to the araneid genus Eustala Simon, and proposed as a junior synonym of E. fuscovittata (Keyserling 1864). Eustala appears to be the most speciose American araneid genus and is in need of revision.
3706204|New records and supplemental data are given for the troglobitic species Kleptochthonius packardi; and two new epigean or troglophilic species are described, K. griseomanus and K. lewisorum. Some comments are made on the status of the genus.
4129889|Little is known about how environmental conditions affect the relative efficacy of information present in chemical cues. The wolf spider, Pardosa milvina, responds to silk and excreta from a larger species of wolf spider, Hogna helluo, with effective antipredator behavior. We investigated whether wetting or heating chemotactile cues of Hogna helluo would reduce the amount of antipredator behavior displayed by Pardosa milvina relative to unmanipulated cues. Pardosa milvina showed less antipredator behavior on chemotactile cues that had been wetted then dried but did not respond differently in the presence of cues that had been heated and then cooled. The results suggest that, in the field, morning dew may degrade some of the cues deposited by H. helluo at night and reduce the ability of P. milvina to avoid predation. However, typical periods of daily heating of cues may not affect the efficacy of predator detection by P. milvina.
