30134473|The purpose of this review is to provide an overview of the avian reproductive system. Attention is given to the neuroendocrine regulation of hypothalamic and pituitary gland hormones as well as the target tissues regulated by these hormones. Emphasis is placed on the dynamics of the system and the effects of alterations resulting from environmental and other influences on the function of the reproductive system. The ovulatory cycle, oviduct, and shell gland are discussed relative to egg formation and the hormonal regulation of this process. Testicular function and the cellular bases for spermatogenesis and steroid production are also discussed.
40793203|To provide novel information on psittacine diets, we analyzed the texture, crude protein, crude fat, Ca, P (total), Mg, K, Na, S, Cu, Fe, and Zn concentrations of crop contents from 10 free-living scarlet macaw (Ara macao) chicks from lowland forests of southeastern Peru. We compared our results with nutrient concentrations of known wild parrot foods and published psittacine dietary recommendations to highlight similarities and differences and suggest future avenues of research. The diets were much coarser textured than those recommended for hand feeding. Soil in the diet provided an important source of Na, but Na levels were still lower than all recommendations. Concentrations of protein, Zn, K, Cu, and P (total) were near to or within the range of recommendations for captive psittacine birds. Fat, Ca, and Mg concentrations were greater in crop contents than in the average food plants and greater than published recommendations. The Na: K ratios were only one-twentieth of those recommended for young poultry. Future analyses should investigate the bioavailability of Fe, Ca, and Zn in these diets and the effects of varying concentrations of fat, Na, Ca, Mg, and Na: K ratio on psittacine growth and development.
40793206|A 37-year-old yellow-crowned Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephald) and a 20-year-old red-lored Amazon parrot (Amazona autumnalis) each presented with a large mass localized on the lateral neck. With the first bird, there was no evidence of signs of pain or discomfort, and the bird prehended and swallowed food normally. The second bird showed signs of mild upper-gastrointestinal discomfort. Results of an ultrasound examination and aspiration of the mass on each bird revealed a cystic structure. A computed tomography performed on the second bird revealed a large polycystic mass connected to the pharynx by a lateral tract. During surgical resection, both masses were found to originate from the subpharyngeal area. Based on topography and the histopathologic and immunohistochemical results, the masses were determined to be a second branchial cleft cyst for the first case and a second branchial pouch cyst for the second case. In addition, a carcinoma was present in situ within the epithelium of case 1, and the cyst in case 2 was secondarily infected. Branchial cysts are uncommonly diagnosed in veterinary and human medicine. These 2 cases are the first documented in parrots and appear similar to second branchial cysts reported in adult humans.
41682478|Aspergillosis is one of the most difficult diseases to treat successfully in avian species. Terbinafine hydrochloride offers numerous potential benefits over traditionally used antifungals for treatment of this disease. Adding nebulized antifungals to treatment strategies is thought to improve clinical outcomes in lung diseases. To determine plasma concentrations of terbinafine after nebulization, 6 adult Hispaniolan Amazon parrots were randomly divided into 2 groups of 3. Each bird was nebulized for 15 minutes with 1 of 2 terbinafine solutions, one made with a crushed tablet and the second with raw drug powder. Blood samples were collected at baseline and at multiple time points up to 720 minutes after completing nebulization. Plasma and nebulization solutions were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. The terbinafine concentration of the solution made with a crushed tablet (0.87  0.05 mg/mL) was significantly lower than was that made with raw powder (1.02  0.09 mg/mL). Plasma concentrations of terbinafine did not differ significantly between birds in the 2 groups. Plasma terbinafine concentrations in birds were maintained above in vitro minimum inhibitory concentrations for approximately 1 hour in birds nebulized with the crushed tablet solution and 4 hours in birds nebulized with the raw powder solution. Higher concentrations of solution, longer nebulization periods, or more frequent administration are likely needed to reach therapeutic plasma concentrations of terbinafine for clinically relevant periods in Hispaniolan Amazon parrots.
30136861|The prevalence of neoplasia in birds is generally low; however, in some species of companion and aviary birds, the incidence is high and neoplasia is a common cause of death. Surgical excision or limb amputation has been performed as the therapeutic plan. Chemotherapy in the treatment of avian neoplasia is largely empirical and poorly documented. For example, cisplatin has been used intralesionally in macaws (Ara species) with limited clinical success. Eight sulphurcrested cockatoos (Cacatua galerita), under general isoflurane anesthesia, were infused intravenously with cisplatin at 6.4 or 1.0 mg/kg over 1 hour and hydrated with lactated Ringer's solution for 1 hour before and 2 hours after cisplatin infusion. Birds were euthanatized 96 hours after infusion, except for 2 birds given the low cisplatin dose, which were euthanatized on day 35 after dosing. All birds tolerated the study procedure while under anesthesia. Blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate did not change significantly. In the low-dose group, the mean cloacal temperature decreased significantly during the infusion period (P < .001) and then rose progressively to preinfusion values by 24 hours. Also in this group, the mean body weight tended to increase during the infusion period before significantly decreasing (P < .05) by 5% at 96 hours after dosing. At 24 hours after dosing, all birds were bright and eating. However, intermittent regurgitation and fecal changes (moist, dark green feces and yellow urates) occurred in 3 of 8 birds, especially those given the high dose. By 72 hours after dosing, droppings in the low-dose group were normal in appearance. One bird in the high-dose group died by 94 hours after dosing. Myelosuppression was not observed in any bird and at necropsy, no evidence of cisplatin toxicity was found except in 1 bird given the high cisplatin dose. On histology, this bird showed nephrotoxicity, and its serum uric acid levels and mean estimated white blood cell count increased significantly by 24 hours after dosing. This paper reports for the first time the effect of systemic cisplatin administration in birds and provides veterinarians data for formulating efficacious and safe protocols for platinum-containing compounds when treating neoplasia in parrots and other companion birds.
27670690|A 4-year-old female blue-headed pionus parrot (Pionus mentstruus rubrigularis) presented repeatedly for acute smoke inhalation. The protracted clinical course and secondary respiratory infections with multiple pathogens represented characteristic sequelae to smoke inhalation and toxicosis seen in other species, but these have not been previously reported in birds.
27753657|The gyr  peregrine (Falco rusticolus  Falco peregrinus) hybrid is the most common falcon treated at Nad Al Shiba Veterinary Hospital in Dubai. To improve the health assessment of individual birds in the population treated at this hospital, we established reference ranges of hematologic values for this hybrid falcon. The hematologic parameters of 96 gyr  peregrine falcons were assessed and compared with other published values for the same hybrid falcon.
30134504|Numerous studies have been conducted to evaluate the efficacy of both soluble and insoluble grit in avian diets. These studies have all been done in poultry and have not yielded any conclusive results. Despite these facts, companion bird owners usually offer dietary grit to their pet birds as an aid to digestive function. A study was done to evaluate the role of grit in the diet of canaries (Serinus canaria), which are common companion birds. Forty-eight adult canaries were allocated to two groups. One group was offered a seed-based diet, cuttlebone, and soluble grit, and the second group was offered a seed-based diet, cuttlebone, and insoluble grit. The birds were maintained on the diets for 6 weeks, at the end of which time a digestibility trial was done. No significant differences in food intake were observed between the two groups, and insoluble grit had no effect on digestibility values. Digestibility values were similar to those reported from trials in which no grit was offered. On average, both groups of birds consumed 115 mg grit/bird/day. The group of birds that was denied a source of soluble grit during the trial consumed a significantly higher amount of cuttlebone than the other birds. This suggests that canaries may have either a behavioral or a nutritional need for the ingestion of soluble grit.
30134219|Two birds were presented with malunion fractures. The first was a young toco toucan (Ramphastos toco) with malunion of the tarsometatarsus that was treated by an opening-wedge corrective osteotomy and an acrylic-pin external skeletal fixator (type II) to stabilize the osteotomy. The second bird was an adult southern caracara (Caracara plancus) with radial and ulnar malunion that was treated by closing-wedge osteotomies. Stabilization of the osteotomy sites was accomplished through a bone plate fixed cranially on the ulna with 6 cortical screws and an interfragmentary single wire in radius. In both cases, the malunion was corrected, but the manus of the southern caracara was amputated because of carpal joint luxation that induced malposition of the feathers.
27823336|Fentanyl is a mu opioid agonist with 80100 times the analgesic potency of morphine. Fentanyl is used in several mammalian species for relief of severe pain, but its use has not been investigated in psittacine birds. To determine the pharmacologic disposition of fentanyl in healthy white cockatoos (Cacatua alba), we measured fentanyl plasma concentrations in sequentially collected samples after administration of fentanyl at 0.01 or 0.02 mg/kg IM. To investigate the analgesic effects of fentanyl in conscious cockatoos, we compared the change in pre- and posttreatment levels of electrical and thermal noxious stimuli necessary to elicit a withdrawal response in birds administered fentanyl at 2 different doses (0.02 mg/kg IM or 0.2 mg/kg SC) and those given saline. Fentanyl was rapidly absorbed and plasma concentrations declined with an elimination half-life of 1.21.4 hours. Plasma concentrations considered to be analgesic in humans were maintained for at least 2 hours with the 0.02 mg/kg dose. However, no significant difference was found in analgesic response between birds given saline and those given fentanyl at 0.02 mg/kg IM. Although the 0.2 mg/kg SC dose provided significant analgesia in some birds, fentanyl at this dose is not recommended as a routine analgesic agent because a large volume of drug must be injected and this dose causes hyperactivity in some birds.
30135232|Dyspnea that is associated with changes in vocalization in birds typically indicates involvement of the trachea. We examined a 1-year-old male cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) that was presented because of acute onset of dyspnea. On physical examination, the only abnormalities noted were referable to the respiratory system and included open-mouth breathing, a tail bob, episodic bouts of coughing and wheezing, and an audible inspiratory squeak. Contrast radiography was used to detect a round filling defect within the syrinx, suggesting the presence of a mass or foreign object. A tracheotomy was performed with an operating microscope and microsurgical techniques, and a millet seed was removed. No surgical complications occurred, and, at 2 years after surgery, the cockatiel is normal other than the inability to whistle or vocalize.
30130680|Appropriate loading and infusion dosages of IV propofol were determined in five adult female canvasback ducks (Aythya valisineria). In these ducks, the dosage was determined as 15 mg/kg of propofol IV loading dose, delivered over 1 minute, followed by a constant infusion rate of 0.8 mg/kg/minute to maintain anesthesia. The cardiopulmonary effects and quality of anesthesia were then evaluated in seven canvasback ducks during constant infusion. Ducks were instrumented (arterial and venous catheters) during isoflurane anesthesia. Systolic, mean, and diastolic pressures, heart and respiratory rates, and esophageal temperature were recorded before propofol anesthesia (baseline and after the duck had recovered from isoflurane anesthesia), and at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, and 35 minutes (5 minutes after infusion was discontinued) after induction. Arterial blood samples were collected at baseline and at 5, 10, 15, 30, and 35 minutes after induction and were analyzed for partial pressures of arterial oxygen (PaO) and arterial carbon dioxide (PaCO) and arterial pH. One duck died during dose determination and another during the cardiopulmonary study, which suggests a low therapeutic index in canvasback ducks. During the anesthetic period (1-30 minutes), body temperature and PaO values decreased significantly and values of mean arterial pressure and PaCO increased. The arterial pH decreased significantly at 5, 10, and 15 minutes after induction. Five minutes after propofol was discontinued (35 minutes), none of the physiologic values measured were significantly different from baseline values. Constant infusion of propofol in ducks has limited use in a clinical setting unless anesthetic depth is monitored and adjusted to accommodate individual variation in dose requirements. The major adverse effect of propofol is respiratory depression, and artificial ventilation of birds during propofol anesthesia is recommended to prevent complications.
40236607|A 19-month-old sun conure (Aratinga solstitialis) of undetermined sex was examined for feather picking of the cranial ventral thoracic region and a lump on the right shoulder. An irregular dermal mass present on the dorsal aspect of the bird's right shoulder was surgically removed. On the basis of histopathologic, histochemical, and immunohistochemical examination, the mass was determined to be a cutaneous vascular hamartoma.
27823378|A 13-year-old male salmon-crested cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) was presented for evaluation of a right thoracic limb mass. A 5  5-cm mass was palpated within the right humeral middiaphysis, extending to the radiohumeral joint. On computed tomography examination, the mass extended from the right humeral bone into adjacent soft tissue; pulmonary metastasis was not observed. To obtain adequate surgical margins with no histologic evidence of neoplastic cells, complete amputation of the right wing at the scapulohumeral joint was performed. The tumor was diagnosed as a primary mucinous adenocarcinoma arising from the respiratory epithelial lining of the medullary cavity of the right humerus. The cockatoo recovered well from surgery and was reported to be in good health 8 weeks after surgery.
30130712|To determine the prevalence of blood parasites with regard to country of origin in a population of falcons kept in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), 432 falcons of 3 different species and 2 hybrid species originating from Asia, Europe, and the United States were examined. Birds were divided into 2 groups. Group 1 comprised 323 birds examined immediately after arrival in the UAE. Blood parasites were detected in 6.8% of birds. Group 2 comprised 109 birds kept longer than 5 months in the UAE; of these, 15.6% were positive for blood parasites. No hybrids (captive bred birds from the United States or Germany) were positive in group 1, whereas 18.2% of the gyrfalcon/saker and 5.9% of the gyrfalcon/peregrine hybrids in group 2 were infected with blood parasites. Wild-caught birds from Asia were positive in both groups. In total, 39 (9%) of the 432 falcons examined were infected with blood parasites. The blood parasites detected were identified as Haemoproteus tinnunculi (5.3%), Haemoproteus brachiatus (0.9%), Leucocytozoon toddi (0.9%), and rickettsia-like parasites (1.9%). This study appears to be the first to investigate the prevalence of blood parasites within the UAE with regard to the origin of the birds. Additionally, it is the first report of H brachiatus in a saker falcon (Falco cherrug). No correlations were found between infection with a blood parasite and clinical disease in the birds in this study.
27670700|Coccidia are common pathogenic parasites in pigeons (Columba livia). Coccidiosis is most commonly seen in young pigeons and only rarely in adult birds. Infections in domestic pigeons are typically mixed and commonly include Eimeria columbarum and Eimeria labbeana. The reported prevalence of infection is 5.1%71.9%, and worldwide mortality in juvenile pigeons varies from 5% to 70%, with most deaths occurring in the third and fourth month of life. This article summarizes the life cycle of E columbarum and E labbeana, the route of transmission, and the common clinical and pathologic signs of coccidiosis. Chemotherapeutic options discussed include amprolium, sulfonamides, clazuril, and toltrazuril. Reasons to use toltrazuril include the growing resistance against other drugs, such as sulfonamides and amprolium, the extended effectiveness compared with other substances, for example, clazuril, and the ability of pigeons to develop immunity during treatment.
27823402|A 23-year-old white cockatoo (Cacatua alba) was examined because of severe muscle wasting and acute onset of ataxia and right head tilt. Results of diagnostic tests were inconclusive, and the bird died despite supportive care and empirical treatment. Results of necropsy and histopathologic examination revealed cysts within skeletal and cardiac muscle, meronts (schizonts) within cerebellar tissue, and encephalitis caused by infection with Sarcocystis falcatula-like organisms.
30135162|Adenovirus has been isolated from ostriches (Struthio camelus) on farms in the US since 1992. Adenovirus infection in ostriches is associated with high chick mortality and chalky or wrinkled eggs. Pathologic lesions found in chicks from which adenovirus has been isolated include necrotizing enteritis and hepatitis and splenic and bursal lymphoid depletion. Ostrich-origin adenovirus was inoculated into 3-day-old ostrich chicks to determine whether the virus is pathogenic in chicks. Eggs were donated from ostrich hens that tested negative for adenovirus and mycoplasma by culture of choanal swab samples. Eight live chicks hatched from the 17 eggs donated. Five chicks were inoculated with one of two strains of ostrich-origin adenovirus, and three chicks were inoculated with sterile saline and used as controls. All inoculated chicks died before 21 days of age. One control chick died from trauma at 12 days of age, and two were euthanatized at 30 days of age. Histologic lesions in the inoculated chicks included splenic and bursal lymphoid depletion, hepatic necrosis, pulmonary congestion, and necrotizing enteritis. Adenovirus was isolated from the liver of four of the five inoculated chicks. No viruses were isolated from the control chicks, and significant pathologic lesions were seen only in the control chick that died from trauma. The lesions and clinical signs in the inoculated ostrich chicks were consistent with those observed in ostriches with naturally occurring adenovirus infection. These results indicate that adenovirus is a pathogenic organism in ostrich chicks less than 3 weeks of age.
27823354|This report details the investigation of renal disease associated with neurologic signs and deaths in a captive research colony of the endangered swift parrot (Lathamus discolor). The syndrome affected birds irregularly during 11 months from October 1999 to September 2000. Ten birds from 4 aviaries were clinically affected, and 9 birds died. The most common clinical signs were weight loss, neurologic dysfunction (ataxia and generalized tremors), and articular gout. At necropsy, common findings included gross nephropathy, visceral gout, and gonadal regression or inflammation. Histopathologic changes included renal tubular degeneration and accumulations of black crystals, assumed to be urates, in renal tubules and collecting ducts. These histopathologic changes are nonspecific and could be associated with a wide variety of nephrotoxins including, but not limited to, heavy metals, organic solvents, phenol, antibacterial agents, pesticides, and ethylene glycol. The syndrome was associated with the feeding of a high-protein diet and the presence of nesting boxes and other environmental factors. A number of potentially toxic substances were found in the swift parrots' environment, including nitrate fertilizer, zinc from galvanized wire, and potentially toxic wood fragments (Tasmanian sassafras [Atherosperma moschatum]). However, not all affected birds were exposed to these toxins, or diagnostic testing ruled them out of consideration. Regardless of the initial cause of renal damage, the overall renal pathologic changes were consistent with a urate nephropathy. There is still uncertainty as to the initial cause of the neurologic disease and renal damage despite the intensive investigation described here. The immediate deterioration of 2 swift parrots after the reintroduction of the high-protein diet led us to suspect that dietary levels of protein might be a contributing factor to the renal disease.
30133105|The efficacy of homologous whole blood transfusions for treating acute blood loss in birds was evaluated in domestic pigeons (Columba livia). Pigeons were divided into three groups: in group 1, birds were bled twice 6 hours apart at 3% of their body weight per bleeding, then transfused with approximately 3% of their body weight in cross-match-compatible homologous whole blood; in group 2, birds were bled twice, as described above, and left untreated; and in group 3, birds were bled once at 3% of their body weight and left untreated. All pigeons were monitored by measuring serial packed cell volume (PCV) and plasma total solids values for 342 hours. The PCV values from 12 to 102 hours after the initial bleeding were significantly greater in pigeons that received transfusions than in pigeons that were bled twice and not treated. However, plasma total solids values were not significantly different in these groups. No significant differences in PCV or plasma total solids values were found between pigeons that were bled twice and transfused and pigeons that were bled only once. A gamma camera was used to record the distribution of
30134202|A clinically normal 2-year-old Hispaniolan Amazon parrot (Amazona ventralis) was found to have periodic second-degree atrioventricular (AV) block with variable nodal conductions while anesthetized with isoflurane during a thermal-support research project. Arrhythmias were observed on 5 successive weekly electrocardiograms. A complete cardiac evaluation, including a diagnostic electrocardiogram, revealed intermittent bradyarrhythmias ranging from a 2:1 to a 7:1 second-degree AV block, with concurrent hypotensive episodes during the nodal blocks. Results of a complete blood cell count, plasma biochemical profile, blood gas analysis, and atropine-response test, as well as radiography and auscultation, revealed no obvious cause for the arrhythmias. Echocardiography demonstrated cardiac wall thickness, chamber size, and systolic function similar to other psittacine birds. On return to the colony, the parrot continued to be outwardly asymptomatic despite the dramatic conduction disturbances. Although cardiac arrhythmias, including second-degree AV block, have been widely reported in birds, the wide variation of nodal conductions, the intermittent nature, and an arrhythmia with a 7:1 second-degree AV block that spontaneously reverts to normal as seen in this case have not been well documented in parrots.
40236595|A 2-year-old double yellow-headed Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala oratrix) was presented for evaluation of a mass on the left wing. A second soft tissue swelling was present under the left mandible and a third in the right inguinal region. The bird had pale mucous membranes, but no other abnormalities were observed on physical examination. Results of the complete blood count and plasma biochemical profile were anemia and decreased total solids. Cytologic findings from fine needle aspirates of the 3 affected areas were nondiagnostic. Wholebody radiographs revealed focal soft tissue swellings. Doppler ultrasound demonstrated significant vascularity in the inguinal swelling; therefore, biopsy of the area was considered contraindicated. Because of the rapid and extensive progression of disease, the owners elected euthanasia. Gross postmortem examination revealed marked and generalized skin thickening. The spleen was slightly enlarged and the bone marrow prominent and gelatinous. The histologic diagnosis was lymphosarcoma, which involved the skin, spleen, and bone marrow. Immunohistochemistry results were consistent with lymphosarcoma of T-cell origin. This case presents an unusual cutaneous manifestation of lymphosarcoma in an Amazon parrot.
41826564|A 9-year-old male timneh African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus timneh) was presented because of inability to fly and suspected trauma. The owner also had observed dyspnea, with tail bobbing and open-beak breathing. On clinical examination, a hard, painful mass was palpable in the left proximal humerus and axillary area. Radiographs revealed a radiodense soft tissue mass of the left humerus with no bony involvement, multifocal opacities in lung and air sacs, and an enlarged spleen. An asymmetric, vascularized cyst was detected in the mass by ultrasound examination. Results of biopsy of the mass revealed multifocal cysts composed of unilayer isoprismatic cells laying in vascularized connective tissue. Because of the severity of clinical signs and the poor clinical condition, the bird was euthanatized. On postmortem examination, the findings were air sac cystadenocarcinoma involving the humeral air sac with metastases in the spleen and kidneys, atherosclerosis, pneumoconiosis, and mycotic granulomatous pneumonia and airsacculitis with isolation of Aspergillus niger.
30133227|A myxoid fibrosarcoma in the wing of a blue and gold macaw (Ara ararauna) was treated with radiation therapy and intratumoral chemotherapy with cisplatin. The tumor was treated with a radiation dose of 40 Gy delivered during 22 days on an alternate-day schedule of 4 Gy/fraction and 3 chemotherapy treatments given once weekly at a dose of 0.3 mg of cisplatin per cm of tissue. Treatment was effective, and adverse effects were not noted clinically. Complete tumor remission was observed within 2 months after treatment completion, and the remission lasted 15 months until the macaw died of an unrelated cause. A cumulative effect of repeated intratumoral administrations on plasma concentrations of cisplatin was not observed during the course of treatment, although only trough levels were measured. Cisplatin-related systemic toxicities monitored by complete blood count and serum biochemical analysis were not found. Acute local reactions including edema and necrosis of the skin were self-limiting. Treatment complications included a decreased range of motion of the involved carpus. This may have resulted from radiation-induced fibrosis and bony fusion associated with bone remodeling. Results provide preliminary evidence that concurrent irradiation and intralesional chemotherapy may be an effective treatment for unresectable tumors in birds.
30134459|We investigated the suppressive effects of three different glucocorticoids (dexamethasone, cortisol, and prednisolone) on the pituitary-adrenocortical system in pigeons (Columba livia domestica). The effects were determined by measuring plasma corticosterone concentrations around the expected nadir and peak of plasma corticosterone concentrations in pigeons kept on a shifted-light regimen. The glucocorticoids were administered by three different application routes: orally, on the intact skin, and on the eye. Following single oral administration and single eye application, glucocorticoids caused suppression of the pituitary-adrenocortical system. The duration of the suppression was comparable to the duration of suppression following intravenous administration of similar doses of water-soluble glucocorticoid. Administration on the skin of solutions containing glucocorticoids and dimethyl sulfoxide resulted in a systemic effect, although it was less pronounced than the effect of intravenous or oral administration of similar doses. Application on the skin of glucocorticoid-containing cream without dimethyl sulfoxide did not result in a suppression of the pituitary-adrenocortical system. We conclude that systemic effects of glucocorticoids are to be expected following oral administration and topical application for dermatologic or ophthalmologic problems. The duration of suppression after a single administration may exceed 24 hours. When dimethyl sulfoxide is absent from the skin preparations, the systemic effects may decrease, whereas the local effects on the skin may be maintained. Long-term administration of glucocorticoids should be avoided because of the risk of secondary infections.
27823379|Cloacal prolapse is frequently seen in psittacine birds, particularly cockatoos and African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus). A 5-year-old female sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua galerita) and a 7-year-old female white cockatoo (Cacatua alba) were examined for chronic cloacal prolapse. On initial presentation to the referring veterinarian 18 months earlier, both birds were treated with either a purse-string suture or vertical mattress sutures across the vent. Because of the chronicity of the conditions, incisional and rib cloacopexies were performed on both birds. Although recovery was uneventful, intestinal obstruction developed in each bird within 1 week after surgery. The sulphur-crested cockatoo died before surgical intervention, and necropsy revealed entrapment of the large intestine between the rib and incisional cloacopexies. An attempt to correct the entrapment was made in the white cockatoo, but the bird died later because of adhesion formation and reobstruction. To prevent intestinal entrapment after surgery in similar cases, we recommend that proper tension on the cloaca be maintained during rib cloacopexy and that the space between rib and incisional cloacopexies be eliminated during closure of the celiotomy.
41826548|An outbreak of Chlamydophila psittaci occurred in an outdoor colony of 63 Magellanic penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) at the San Francisco Zoo. Affected penguins presented with inappetence, lethargy, and light green urates. Hematologie and serum biochemical findings were consistent with chronic inflammation. Penguins did not respond to initial supportive and antimicrobial therapy, and 3 died. Necropsy results of the 3 birds revealed hepatomegaly and splenomegaly, and histologie lesions included necrotizing hepatitis, splenitis, and vasculitis. Chlamydophila psittaci infection was confirmed by results of Gimenez staining, immunohistochemistry, and tissue polymerase chain reaction assay. As additional birds continued to present with similar clinical signs, the entire colony of penguins was prophylactically treated with a 30-day minimum course of doxycycline, administered orally or intramuscularly or as a combination of both. Despite treatment, 9 additional penguins died during a 3-month period. Pathologic results from these birds revealed renal and visceral gout (n = 4), cardiac insufficiency (n = 2), sepsis from a suspected esophageal perforation (n = 2), and no gross lesions (n = 1). During the outbreak, 4 birds presented with seizures, 5 developed dermatitis, and nearly 90% of birds in the colony showed severe keratoconjunctivitis, believed to be related to drug therapy with doxycycline. We report the clinical and pathologic features of Chlamydophila psittaci infection in an outdoor colony of penguins and the associated challenges of treatment.
30135621|The sedative effects of medetomidine administered alone or in combination with ketamine or midazolam were evaluated in 20 adult pigeons (Columba livia). Six to 12 pigeons were randomly assigned to each of 5 treatment groups. Medetomidine administered alone (80, 150, or 200 g/kg IM) caused effects ranging from ataxia to sternal recumbency, but the righting reflex was always retained. The level of sedation resulting from medetomidine (80 g/kg IM) in combination with either ketamine (5 mg/kg IM) or midazolam (0.5 mg/kg IM) was variable; birds exhibited signs ranging from mild to heavy sedation. Heavy sedation was defined as loss of the righting reflex and profound muscle relaxation. Medetomidine-ketamine resulted in heavy sedation in 3 of 9 birds, whereas 5 of 12 birds were heavily sedated with medetomidine-midazolam. Atipamizole (0.5 mg/kg IM) was administered to reverse the effects of medetomidine. The length of time (mean  SD) from atipamizole injection until loss of ataxia and return of full responsiveness ranged from 10  4.0 to 17  5.0 minutes with medetomidine alone. Birds sedated with medetomidine-ketamine recovered within 20  12.0 minutes, and those sedated with medetomidine-midazolam recovered within 38  11.0 minutes. Atipamizole was given 30 minutes after administration of medetomidine alone and medetomidine-ketamine, whereas birds given medetomidinemidazolam received atipamizole 50 minutes after administration. Medetomidine used alone or in combination with ketamine or midazolam cannot be recommended for sedation of pigeons at the dosages described in this study. Used alone, medetomidine was inadequate for restraint, and when administered with ketamine or midazolam, sedative effects were unpredictable.
27823389|Clinical records from 3376 falcons of different species presented to the Falcon Specialist Hospital and Research Institute of the Fahad bin Sultan Falcon Center, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, from September 1, 1998, to March 1, 2001, were reviewed to determine the causes of morbidity and mortality in falcons in Saudi Arabia. The most common causes of morbidity were infectious diseases, traumatic injuries, toxicosis, and metabolic or nutritional diseases. The most common causes of mortality were bacterial and fungal diseases, bumblefoot, collision-type injuries, injuries inflicted by other birds, lead and ammonium chloride toxicosis, gout, sour crop, and low body condition. These findings contribute to the limited available information about morbidity and mortality in falcons in Saudi Arabia in particular and in the Middle East in general.
30133141|Two experimental preparations of Lactobacillus acidophilus were evaluated as dietary supplements in juvenile cockatiels to determine their effect on survival rate, growth rate, tibiotarsal length, crop flora, and hematologic values. The supplements were commercially formulated as either a gel, given by gavage before feeding, or a powder, mixed into the diet fed to the neonates. The preparations were given for 28 days, from 14 to 42 days of age. The growth rate was significantly increased in birds that received the Lactobacillus supplement in gel form compared with control birds or with those that received the powdered supplement. Lactobacillus organisms were isolated in higher numbers from crop swab samples of cockatiels receiving either supplement preparation than from control birds. No significant differences in tibiotarsal length, complete blood count, or survival rate were found among experimental groups. No specific quantifiable benefits nor any adverse effects were found with either of the two commercial Lactobacillus acidophilus formulations.
27823449|A 4-year-old chestnut-fronted macaw (Ara severa) was examined for polyuria, polydipsia, and weight loss. Abnormal clinicopathologic findings, including leukocytosis, anemia, -globulinemia, hyperglycemia, glucosuria, and ketonuria, were consistent with diabetes mellitus. Increasing doses of neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin had no effect on the hyperglycemia, and the macaw died 5 days after presentation. Histologic examination of the pancreas at necropsy showed marked islet cell vacuolar degeneration, multifocal lymphoplasmacytic inflammation, and exocrine pancreatic hyperplasia. Immunohistochemistry performed on the pancreas revealed nearly complete absence of insulin immunopositive cells. The pancreatic lesions were consistent with type 1 diabetes mellitus.
40984724|Collection of exhaled breath condensate (EBC) and the measurement of inflammatory markers contained therein (eg, hydrogen peroxide [HO], leukotriene B [LTB], and pH) have been reported to be noninvasive tools for the investigation of respiratory disease in various species. In this study, the EBC of clinically healthy psittacine birds (n = 15) and psittacine birds with respiratory tract disease (n = 19) was examined, and inflammatory markers contained in the EBC were analyzed and compared. Awake birds were placed in an acrylic container from which the outflow passed through a condensation system that collected the EBC. All samples were analyzed for pH, HO, and LTB. The mean values for each of these components, as well as the mean volume of the total EBC, measured from the apparently healthy birds did not differ significantly from those measured in birds with signs of respiratory tract disease. However, LTB in the EBC of diseased birds was higher than that of the apparently healthy birds and showed a trend toward significance. The study demonstrated the establishment of a standardized method for collecting and analyzing EBC in psittacine birds and a measurement protocol for pH, HO, and LTB.
40793202|Barium impregnated polyethylene spheres (BIPS) are used in small animal medicine as an alternative to barium sulfate for radiographie studies of the gastrointestinal tract. To determine the usefulness of BIPS as an alternative to barium suspension in measuring gastrointestinal (GI) transit time for avian species, ventrodorsal radiographs were used to follow the passage of BIPS and 30% barium sulfate suspension through the GI tracts of domestic pigeons (Columba livid). Gastrointestinal transit times of thirty 1.5-mm BIPS administered in moistened gelatin capsules and 30% barium sulfate suspension gavaged into the crop were compared in 6 pigeons. Although the barium suspension passed out of the GI tract of all pigeons within 24 hours, the 1.5-mm BIPS remained in the ventriculus for 368.0  176.8 hours and did not clear the GI tract for 424.0  204.6 hours. Although the times for passage of BIPS and 30% barium sulfate suspension from the crop into the ventriculus were not significantly different (P = .14), the times for passage of BIPS from the ventriculus into the large intestine-cloaca and for clearance from the GI tract of the pigeons were significantly longer (P < .001) than for the 30% barium sulfate suspension. From the results of this study, we conclude that BIPS are not useful for radiographically evaluating GI transit times in pigeons and are unlikely to be useful in other avian species that have a muscular ventriculus. BIPS may or may not be useful for evaluating GI transit times in species that lack a muscular ventriculus.
30134188|Hemochromatosis was diagnosed at postmortem examination of 5 birds, representing 3 species of lories, including 2 Duyvenbode's lories (Chalcopsitta duivenbodei), 2 black lories (Chalcopsitta atra), and 1 rainbow lory (Trichoglossus haematodus). All 5 birds were housed in the same zoological collection and were fed the same commercially available lory nectar. Classic histopathologic lesions, consistent with hemochromatosis, were observed in all 5 birds. Increased iron concentrations were detected in the nectar diet (1450 ppm) and in the sample of liver (35007600 ppm) of affected birds.
30135214|Lymphoid neoplasia is the most common form of hemolymphatic neoplasia in birds. Most research on avian lymphoid neoplasia has been done on the virus-induced neoplasias affecting poultry, including Marek's disease, avian leukosis, and reticuloendotheliosis. There is evidence of virus-induced lymphoid neoplasia in psittacine and passerine species, but little research has been done to confirm it. We diagnosed multicentric lymphoma on histopathologic examination of tissues from a European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) that had presented because of inability to fly, dyspnea, emaciation, and abdominal distension. Macroscopic and histologic findings were similar to those for lymphoid leukosis as described in chickens. Polymerase chain reaction amplification using chicken reticuloendotheliosis virus primers was negative. Amplification of a pol fragment from primers by polymerase chain reaction showed the presence of retrovirus sequences in the starling tumor.
41826551|Psittacine birds are challenging laboratory subjects, as they are typically long-lived, very social, highly intelligent, and easily stressed. The benefits of positive reinforcement techniques in animal management have been well documented for mammalian species; however, there are few publications on such programs for birds. To demonstrate the practicality of positive reinforcement training of laboratory birds to cooperate with research procedures involving direct manipulation of individuals, 9 adult macaws (Ara species; 5 individuals and 2 pairs) were trained in 10-minute sessions, twice a day for 8 weeks. The trained behaviors were: target, stay, accept liquids from a syringe, step onto a perch, step onto a scale, allow pressing a syringe to the pectoral area (surrogate for an intramuscular injection), and step onto a towel. All individually housed birds reliably targeted, stayed, and accepted a syringe, and 4 of the 5 stepped onto a perch. One bird performed all of the behaviors. Paired birds learned advanced techniques significantly faster when trained by 2 trainers versus 1 trainer. All behaviors that were mastered during the initial phase of training were successfully transferred so that the birds would reliably perform for the husbandry staff. We conclude that positive reinforcement techniques provide an effective, practical way to train laboratory macaws in behaviors useful for veterinary practice and research. Positive reinforcement used to evoke voluntary participation in procedures will help reduce stress associated with capture and restraint and improve welfare for laboratory parrots.
27823375|A pied imperial pigeon (Ducula bicolor bicolor) presented weak and unable to fly. Results of a complete blood count and plasma biochemical analysis revealed a leukocytosis and elevations in multiple enzymes, respectively. Sarcocystosis was suspected and was definitively diagnosed from muscle biopsy samples. A multidrug treatment regimen consisting of diclazuril, pyrimethamine, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was instituted. Muscle biopsies collected after 40 days of treatment were normal. The bird died of a bacterial septicemia 18 months after treatment with no evidence of sarcocystosis. This case suggests that diclazuril may be a useful drug in the treatment of avian sarcocystosis.
27670702|To investigate potential water-source microbes, 44 samples of water offered to individually caged psittacine birds were aseptically collected from 14 bird-owning households and evaluated for the presence of coliforms, Escherichia coli, heterotrophic bacteria, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. No samples were positive for E coli; however, 21 of 25 water samples (84%) from open containers and 7 of 19 samples (37%) from bottles exceeded US Environmental Protection Agency standards for coliforms. Fourteen of 24 open containers (58%) and 7 of 19 bottles (37%) grew heterotrophic bacteria that exceeded 500 colonies/ml. Pseudomonas aeruginosa was isolated from water samples from 1 open container and 1 bottle. These results suggest that potentially pathogenic bacteria can be found in water offered to companion psittacine birds. Additional studies are needed to assess whether these bacteria are clinically important causes of disease and to develop husbandry methods that will reduce contamination.
40984727|Aflatoxin B is a common hepatotoxin in birds. The goal of this study was to establish an acute model for hepatotoxicosis and decreased hepatic function in the white Carneaux pigeon (Columba livia) via oral administration of this mycotoxin. Aflatoxin B was orally administered at a dose of 3 mg/kg dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide to 3 groups of pigeons every 24 hours for 2, 4, and 6 consecutive days, respectively. Diagnostic modalities used to evaluate hepatic damage and impaired hepatic function pre-and postaflatoxin administration included liver enzyme activity, bile acid levels, scintigraphy, and histopathologic evaluation of liver biopsy specimens. Deaths occurred in all groups, increasing with the number of consecutive days the aflatoxin B was dosed. Significant histopathologic lesions were seen on evaluation of hepatic tissue from each group after accumulated aflatoxin exposure (P < .05); therefore, an oral aflatoxin B dose of 3 mg/kg given for 2 consecutive days was selected for the purpose of inducing acute hepatic damage while minimizing mortality. However, although increased liver enzyme activity indicated hepatocellular damage at this dosage, bile acids testing and hepatobiliary scintigraphy did not show significantly decreased hepatic function.
40236554|A 9-month-old, 630-g male peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus) was admitted for examination with a history of a suspected traumatic injury acquired during training. A circular, 5-mm diameter wound was found in the skin overlying the left pectoral muscle. A similar wound was located in the midline in the apertura thoracis cranialis (thoracic inlet). Radiographic examination revealed the presence of a bullet in the coelom on the midline, immediately ventral to the base of the heart. The shape of the bullet was consistent with those fired from an airpowered rifle. Endoscopy through a left lateral approach facilitated visualization of the bullet, which was then removed with a pair of flexible grasping forceps. This minimally invasive approach enabled removal of the foreign body without damage to vessels or internal organs.
41318127|An 18-year-old, intact male cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) presented with a clinical history of dyspnea, lethargy, and reluctance to perch. Coelomic ultrasonographic examination revealed hypoechoic nodules in the proximity of, and within, the liver. The bird did not respond to supportive care and was euthanatized. At necropsy, the testes were bilaterally enlarged, whitish-tan, firm, and multilobulated. The right hepatic lobe contained a mass that had a similar color and consistency to those in the testes. On histologie and ultrastructural examinations, the diagnosis was bilateral testicular seminoma with hepatic metastasis. To our knowledge, this is the first case of a metastatic bilateral testicular seminoma reported in a cockatiel.
30134204|A yellow-naped Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala auropalliata) was presented 5 months after a traumatic fracture of its left tibiotarsus. Fixation of the simple, closed, middiaphyseal fracture was originally with an intramedullary pin and external coaptation with a modified Robert-Jones bandage. During the subsequent 5 months, the bone became osteopenic, and the middle third of the tibiotarsus exhibited probable avascular necrosis. After various fixation attempts failed, the parrot was fitted with a ring fixator device, and bone transport osteogenesis was attempted. Within 7 weeks, the left tibiotarsus had regrown to full length, but the docking site at the proximal fracture line had not healed. After 2 more surgeries to debride bone ends to stimulate healing, the leg in this parrot became functional. This is the first reported clinical use of bone transport osteogenesis in a pet bird. Materials and techniques were applied successfully to this parrot, which suggests that bone transport osteogenesis deserves further study for the repair of large bone defects in birds.
41682465|Necropsy of 24-year-old southern crowned pigeons (Goura scheepmakeri) that died from a presumed case of botulism revealed hundreds of small, cyst-like structures in the pectoral subcutaneous tissues. The structures were identified as heteromorphic deutonymphs of Hypodectes propus (Order Astigmata) of the family Hypoderatidae. The immobile, immature hypopi were individually encapsulated, mostly in adipose tissue, and evoked only a mild inflammatory infiltration of predominately macrophages with some heterophilic granulocytes. The infection was not considered a serious health problem and was interpreted as an incidental finding. To our knowledge, this is a new host record for H propus.
27753659|In psittacine birds, the antemortem diagnosis of aspergillosis is usually based on the clinical signalment combined with the results of diagnostic tests such as radiography, routine hematologic and biochemical analysis, and biopsy. For several years, plasma protein electrophoresis has been used as an ancillary diagnostic technique in forming a diagnosis and treatment plan in avian species. More recently, a commercially available assay to measure galactomannan, an Aspergillus species antigen, has been described for clinical use in humans, cattle, horses, dogs, and gyr falcons. This report describes several confirmed cases of aspergillosis, with accompanying clinical data, including plasma protein electrophoresis and galactomannan assay results, in addition to results of traditional evaluations by hematology, radiography, and biopsy. In clinical cases in psittacine birds, the galactomannan assay appears useful for detecting circulating Aspergillus antibody.
30135197|The effects of levonorgestrel and medroxyprogesterone acetate on egg production were studied in Japanese quail. Birds were divided into three groups and injected with a depot form of levonorgestrel, a commercially available formulation of medroxyprogesterone acetate, or a saline control. Daily egg production, daily fecal estrogen concentration, and weekly body weights were monitored 7 days before and 70 days after drug or saline administration. The birds were euthanatized 70 days after treatment. A complete necropsy was done on each bird, and selected tissues were examined histologically. All birds treated with levonorgestrel ceased egg laying by the second day after injection, and the average duration of cessation of egg laying was 67.1  4.06 days. In five of seven birds treated with medroxyprogesterone, the average duration of cessation of egg laying was 5.8  2.3 days. In the remaining two birds, egg laying stopped for an extended time (19 and 49 days). The control birds continued to lay throughout the study. Fecal estrone conjugate profiles for quail treated with levonorgestrel and medroxyprogesterone varied compared with the control birds. Concentrations of fecal estrone conjugate decreased between days 1 and 40 in birds treated with levonorgestrel, varied for the duration of the study in birds treated with medroxyprogesterone, and did not fluctuate in the control birds. Necropsy findings in birds treated with levonorgestrel revealed a retained egg within the oviduct of three birds and a calcified egg within the coelomic cavity of one bird. Results of histologic examination were unremarkable in all birds. These results show that a single dose of repository levonorgestrel is effective in preventing egg laying in healthy, young adult Japanese quail.
30134187|A unique case of primary pulmonary leiomyosarcoma was diagnosed postmortem in an adult white Carneau pigeon (Columba livia) that had presented with respiratory distress, lethargy, and anorexia nonresponsive to antibiotic treatment. Histologically, the pulmonary mass was composed of multiple interlacing bands of malignant spindle cells. Prominent eosinophilic staining of these cells with Masson trichrome stain and immunohistochemical staining that was positive for actin and desmin confirms smooth muscle origin. This is the first report of a primary pulmonary leiomyosarcoma in a pigeon.
27670687|The St Vincent Amazon parrot (Amazona guildingii), listed as a CITES appendix I animal, is endemic only to the mainland of St Vincent and the Grenadines (SVG), Lesser Antilles. A health assessment that included physical examination, hematology, blood parasite evaluation, plasma biochemical analysis, plasma protein electrophoresis, level of exposure to selected infectious agents, and fecal parasites was performed in July 2002 on 37 (51%) of the parrots in the captive population in SVG. Clinical abnormalities noted in the 37 parrots included poor feathers, lipomas, abnormal choanal papillae, obesity, leg ulcers, respiratory abnormalities, cardiac abnormalities, seizure activity, old fractures, missing digits, skin disease associated with (Knemidokoptes species), oral granuloma, and a thin, friable beak. Only 7 of the birds were clinically normal on physical examination. Results of hematologic testing, plasma biochemical analysis, and plasma electrophoresis were not statistically different between female and male parrots. No blood parasites were found in any of the 32 samples examined. None of the 36 parrots evaluated had antibodies to the 12 infectious agents tested. Of the 21 fecal samples available, Capillaria species was detected in 1 bird. Findings from this study, in addition to nutritional, genetic, and husbandry evaluations, have been used to make recommendations to the Forestry Department of SVG for improvements in husbandry and veterinary care of this ex situ population.
41826550|A blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva) was presented with a granuloma involving the proximal rhinotheca and extending into the rostral sinuses. Mycobacterium marinum was diagnosed based on results of biopsy and culture. Treatment was initiated with clarithromycin, rifampin, and ethambutol, but the bird died 4 months after the onset of antimicrobial therapy. Additional granulomas were found in the left lung and liver on postmortem examination. Mycobacterial isolation on postmortem samples was unsuccessful. This is the first report of Mycobacterium marinum in a bird.
40236570|A 14-year-old blue-crowned conure (Aratinga acuticaudatd) of unknown sex was brought to the hospital with a 3-week history of straining and vocalizing during defecation. Physical examination revealed blood and urate staining on feathers around the cloaca. A 2.5-cm subcutaneous swelling was palpated along the midline of the caudoventral abdomen. During surgical exploratory, a subcutaneous soft-tissue mass was found, which extended through the body wall musculature and into the coelomic cavity. The abnormal tissue was adhered to the cloacal serosa, causing deviation of the cloaca caudally and ventrally. The mass was excised and submitted for histopathology, and the histopathologic diagnosis was infiltrative lipoma. The surgical incision healed uneventfully, and no evidence of tumor regrowth was apparent 7 months after surgery. This is the first documented case of infiltrative lipoma in a bird.
41318136|Intraocular pressure (IOP) was measured with the Tono Vet rebound tonometer in 10 raptor species, and possible factors affecting IOP were investigated. A complete ophthalmic examination was performed, and IOP was assessed in 2 positions, upright and dorsal recumbency, in 237 birds belonging to the families Accipitridae, Falconidae, Strigidae, and Tytonidae. Mean IOP values of healthy eyes were calculated for each species, and differences between families, species, age, sex, left and right eye, as well as the 2 body positions were evaluated. Physiologic fluctuations of IOP were assessed by measuring IOP serially for 5 days at the same time of day in 15 birds of 3 species. Results showed IOP values varied by family and species, with the following mean IOP values (mm Hg  SD) determined: white-tailed sea eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla), 26.9  5.8; red kite (Milvus milvus), 13.0  5.5; northern goshawk (Accipiter gentilis), 18.3  3.8; Eurasian sparrowhawk (Accipiter nisus), 15.5  2.5; common buzzard (Buteo buteo), 26.9  7.0; common kestrel (Falco tinnunculus), 9.8  2.5; peregrine falcon, (Falco per egrinus), 12.7  5.8; tawny owl (Strix aluco), 9.4  4.1; long-eared owl (Asio otus), 7.8  3.2; and barn owl (Tyto alba), 10.8  3.8. No significant differences were found between sexes or between left and right eyes. In goshawks, common buzzards, and common kestrels, mean IOP was significantly lower in juvenile birds than it was in adult birds. Mean IOP differed significantly by body position in tawny owls (P = .01) and common buzzards (P = .04). By measuring IOP over several days, mean physiologic variations of  2 mm Hg were detected. Differences in IOP between species and age groups should be considered when interpreting tonometric results. Physiologic fluctuations of IOP may occur and should not be misinterpreted. These results show that rebound tonometry is a useful diagnostic tool in measuring IOP in birds of prey because it provides rapid results and is well tolerated by birds.
40236491|The determination of prothrombin time (PT) has been standardized for domestic chickens; however, validated tests of coagulation are lacking for nondomestic avian species, limiting the investigation of acquired hemostatic disorders in these species. The purpose of this study was to validate the PT assay for chickens in our laboratory using both fresh and frozen plasma and to apply the assay to psittacine bird plasma to establish reference intervals for PT of Hispaniolan parrots (Amazona ventralis) and umbrella cockatoos (Cacatua alba). We used avian tissue thromboplastin, prepared from brain tissue of 2-week-old chickens, for determining all PT values. The reference intervals for PT of chickens (n = 6) were 7.5-10.6 and 7.0-11.1 seconds for fresh and frozen plasma, respectively. The reference intervals for PT of Hispaniolan parrots (n = 6) were 7.5-13.4 and 9.0-11.3 seconds for fresh and frozen plasma, respectively. The reference intervals for PT of cockatoos (n = 14) differed significantly (P < .0001) when 2 different aliquots of avian thromboplastin were used for frozen plasma (11.2-15.8 versus 10.0-13.0 seconds). These PT values should be viewed as estimates for these species because of the small sample sizes in our study. PT values for plasma samples were similar under either fresh or frozen conditions. When the same aliquot of thromboplastin was used, interspecies differences in PT were evident. Variation between aliquots of thromboplastin caused the most significant difference in PT values between avian plasma samples; thus, aliquots of avian tissue thromboplastin should be prepared in volume sufficient to insure that multiple PT assays can be performed for a single patient.
27823461|Hornbills are distinguished from most other avian taxa by the presence of a casque on the dorsal maxillary beak, which, in all but 1 of the 54 extant hornbill species, is described as essentially an air-filled cavity enclosed by minimal cancellous bone. The external casque has been described in detail, but little has been described about its internal anatomy and the communications between the casque and the paranasal sinuses. In this study, 10 intact casque and skull specimens of 7 hornbill species were collected opportunistically at necropsy. The anatomy of the casque and the skull for each of the specimens was examined by radiography, contrast radiography, and computed tomography. After imaging, 8 specimens were submitted for osteologic preparation to directly visualize the casque and the skull interior. Through this standardized review, the baseline anatomy of the internal casque was described, including identification of a novel casque sinus within the paranasal sinus system. These observations will assist clinicians in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the casque in hornbill species.
30134218|A 1-year-old male canary (Serinus canaria, Jibber breed), with a protuberance on the left tibia was referred to the clinic. The bird was not able to use the affected foot to stand on its perch. Results of radiographs revealed a radio-opaque hard tissue mass. The canary was euthanatized and submitted for necropsy. On histopathologic examination, the mass was diagnosed as an ossifying fibroma tumor. To our knowledge, ossifying fibroma has not been reported in birds so far, and this is the first known report of this tumor in birds.
30134189|A red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) was presented with a right midshaft compression fracture of the humerus. The fracture was partially healed, but with significant loss in bone length. This report describes a technique for harvesting autogenous callus, which was utilized with tie-in fixation to reconstruct architecture to repair a cortical defect. This procedure restored the functional length of the humerus.
40236578|Mycobacteriosis has long been recognized as a disease of companion psittacine birds. In this review, the signalment, clinical signs of disease, and diagnosis of mycobacteriosis in psittacine birds are presented. Although treatment of birds with mycobacteriosis is controversial, therapeutic protocols for use in psittacine birds have been developed based on protocols used in humans. Results of recent studies indicate that mycobacteriosis in psittacine birds is unlikely to represent a significant health risk for humans. However, the potential for zoonotic disease must be considered, especially if persons who are immunocompromised are in contact with an infected bird.
41682479|A female white-naped crane (Grus vipio) was presented with an open, oblique fracture of the distal right tarsometatarsus and concomitant vascular and nerve damage. Conventional fracture fixation rpairs failed, which led to implantation of a custom titanium limb prosthesis. After subsequent revisions with 2 different prosthetic devices, limb function was ultimately restored but a later yolk embolism caused a circulatory compromise in the opposite leg, which necessitated euthanasia. Histopathologic results revealed limited ingrowth of bone into the porous coated implant, which indicated that a limb prosthesis may provide salvage for long-legged, heavybodied birds with fractures of the tarsometatarsus.
41318137|To evaluate the pathologic effects of carprofen in a pigeon model (Columba livid), 52 young adult pigeons were used in a randomized control study design. Sixteen pigeons were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups and received carprofen by intramuscular injection at dosages of either 2, 5, or 10 mg/kg once daily for 7 days. Four pigeons served as saline-injected controls. Four pigeons from each group and 1 control pigeon were randomly selected on days 2, 4, 6, and 8 to obtain blood samples and then were euthanatized and submitted for necropsy. Histologie lesions in pectoral muscle, liver, kidney, and digestive tract tissue samples were ranked in severity as 0, normal/not present; 1, minimal; 2, mild; 3, mild to moderate; 4, moderate; 5, moderate to marked; and 6, marked pathologic changes. Two-way analysis of variance (day X dose) and pairwise t tests revealed significant (P  .05) mild decreases in total protein and glucose concentrations and marked increases in aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase enzyme activities after carprofen treatments. Gross lesions in carprofen-treated pigeons were pale injection sites (23/48 [47.9%]), mottled yellow livers (9/48 [18.8%]), and congestion of small intestines (7/48 [14.6%]). Liver, kidney, and muscle injection sites had significantly increased (P  .05) severity of histologie lesions. In pigeons, intramuscular administration of carprofen is associated with increased aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase enzyme concentrations, gross lesions in muscle injection sites and liver, and histologie lesions in liver and muscle.
30135624|A 3-year-old female peregrine falcon-gyrfalcon hybrid (Falco peregrinus X Falco rusticolus) was presented for evaluation of a lesion below the right eye. Initial examination revealed an abraded, crusty lesion on the right lower eyelid that was believed to be consistent with trauma and a secondary bacterial infection. Despite initial diagnostic procedures and treatment, the condition progressed to severe blepharitis and dermatitis involving the upper and lower eyelids of both eyes and the head. Septated fungal hyphae were identified by histopathologic analysis in specimens obtained from the lesions and an Aspergillus species was cultured. The blepharitis and dermatitis were treated successfully with oral itraconazole (15 mg/kg q12h) and topical miconazole cream, applied twice daily.
30135163|The most common causes of primary and secondary bacterial infections in birds are gram-negative organisms and chlamydia. Amikacin and ticarcillin are commonly used in avian medicine to treat gram-negative infections in which the bacteria are resistant to ampicillin, tetracyclines, and chloramphenicol. These drugs are also used empirically to treat life-threatening infections that are presumed to be caused by resistant gram-negative organisms and anaerobes. The present study evaluated the pharmacokinetic disposition of the two drugs when given concurrently to blue-fronted Amazon parrots (Amazona aestiva aestiva) by intravenous and intramuscular routes. The elimination half-life of ticarcillin was 30 to 40 minutes after both intravenous and intramuscular administration at 200 mg/kg. Ticarcillin was detectable in the serum of only two of six parrots 4 hours after intravenous administration and in no parrots 4 hours after intramuscular administration. The elimination half-life of amikacin was 30 minutes after intravenous administration and 1.5 hours after intramuscular administration at 15 mg/kg. Peak serum concentrations of ticarcillin were 1,160 and 15 g/ml, and of amikacin were 100 and 38 g/ml after intravenous and intramuscular administration, respectively. The results suggest that ticarcillin in Amazon parrots should be administered at 200 mg/kg every 2 to 4 hours intramuscularly (IM). Amikacin should be administered at 15 mg/kg every 8 hours intravenously (IV) or every 12 hours IM.
27753660|Two nightjars (Caprimulgus europaeus) from a bird park in the Netherlands died suddenly, with no clinical signs, within 1 month of each other. The main pathologic findings at necropsy were splenomegaly and hepatic necrosis. On histologic examination, intranuclear viral inclusion bodies consistent with avian polyomavirus were observed in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Polymerase chain reaction testing of samples from the liver, spleen, and kidneys detected avian polyomaviral DNA, and sequence analysis showed that the virus had a sequence homology of 99% to psittacine avian polyomavirus strains. To our knowledge, this is the first report of avian polyomavirus infection in the order Caprimulgiformes. Lovebirds (Agapornis species), which were housed near the nightjars, were considered as the possible source of infection.
40236581|A mature bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was diagnosed with mycobacterial infection after being presented for an inability to fly, emaciation, and a swelling of the left tibiotarsal-tarso metatarsal joint. Results of a complete blood cell count revealed a persistent, marked leukocytosis, with heterophilia, monocytosis, and anemia. Radiographs revealed lysis of the left distal tibiotarsus and soft-tissue swelling around the left tibiotarsal-tarsometatarsal joint, multiple pulmonary opacities, and an enlarged liver. Endoscopic evaluation and biopsy of caseated material within the left caudal coelom revealed acid-fast organisms. The eagle was euthanatized, and results of necropsy and histologic evaluation revealed caseated granulomas of the intestine, lungs, air sacs, and subcutaneous regions of the hock. Results of culture, a polymerase chain reaction testing, and direct deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequencing for mycobacterial 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid DNA determined this organism most likely to be Mycobacterium avium.
41318122|Birds are routinely presented to veterinarians for dehydration. Success with these cases ultimately depends on providing replacement fluids and re-establishing fluid homeostasis. Few studies have been done to determine reference ranges for plasma osmolality in birds. The goals of this study were to determine reference values for plasma osmolality in 3 species of parrots and to provide recommendations on fluid selection for replacement therapy in these species. Blood samples were collected from 21 adult Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis), 21 Congo African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus erithacus), and 9 red-fronted macaws (Ara rubrogenys), and were placed into lithium heparin containers. Plasma osmolality was measured in duplicate with a freezing point depression osmometer. Summary statistics were computed from the average values. Reference ranges, calculated by using the robust method, were 288-324, 308-345, and 223-369 mOsm/kg in African grey parrots, Hispaniolan Amazon parrots, and red-fronted macaws, respectively. The mean  SD values were 306  7, 327  7, and 304  18 mOsm/kg in African grey parrots, Hispaniolan Amazon parrots, and red-fronted macaws, respectively. Comparisons with osmolality values in mammals and values previously reported for psittacine bird species suggest that plasma osmolality is slightly higher in parrots than in mammals, species-specific differences exist, and differences between reported values occur. Overall, fluids with an osmolarity close to 300-320 mOsm/L, such as Normosol-R, Plasmalyte-R, Plasmalyte-A, and NaCl 0.9%, can be recommended in parrots for fluid replacement therapy when isotonic fluids are required.
30133152|Factors that affect race performance in pigeons include nutrition, husbandry, training, inherent homing ability, physical ability, and general health of the race team. Veterinarians primarily address the health of the flock vs the individual bird and use diagnostic tests to check for diseases that may decrease speed or stamina. Husbandry practices, including housing, population density, perch design, and feeding and watering methods, are important in disease control, and vaccination and parasite control are effective preventative methods. Diagnostic strategies used with live birds as well as postmortem specimens include polymerase chain reaction DNA probes, cytologic examination, serologic testing, fecal examination, bacterial culture, and histopathologic examination. Viruses that cause disease in homing pigeons include adenovirus, poxvirus, circovirus, herpesvirus, and paramyxovirus-1. Veterinarians must be familiar with the history, clinical signs, transmission, necropsy findings, diagnosis, and treatment of these viral dieases to maintain flock health.
40236569|A cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) examined because of weight loss, polydipsia, and polyuria was diagnosed with diabetes mellitus based on the presence of glucosuria and marked hyperglycemia. Medical attempts to manage the diabetes mellitus were unsuccessful, and the bird was euthanatized. Histopathologic examination of the pancreas revealed a chronic active pancreatitis with herpesviral inclusions in many of the pancreatic acinar and duct cells. Psittacid herpesvirus-1 (PsHV-1) DNA was amplified from the lesion by polymerase chain reaction. Sequencing of the amplicon showed it to be the genotype 1 variant, which is most commonly associated with Pacheco's disease, an acute rapidly fatal systemic infection. The findings in this case suggest that the PsHV-1 genotype may also cause a localized disease of the pancreas. Infection with this virus should be considered as a differential diagnosis in birds with pancreatitis with or without diabetes mellitus.
40236502|Understanding the normal anatomy of psittacine birds is basic to the diagnosis and treatment of disease in these species. As a first step toward a systematic investigation of the avian cardiovascular system, we conducted a 2-part study of healthy and diseased parrots. In the first part, the normal heart shape, size, and weight were studied in budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) and Australian king parrots (Alisterus s scapularis) that were euthanatized because of genetic feather abnormalities. To compare results of birds of different sizes, measurements were evaluated in relation to the length of the sternum of the individual bird. Only minor differences were found between the 2 species studied. In the second part of the study, the spectrum and the frequency of pathologic changes of the heart and the major vessels were evaluated in 107 caged psittacine birds that were presented for routine necropsy. Of the birds examined, 36% had visible gross lesions of the heart, the major vessels, or both. On histologic examination, 99% exhibited at least low-grade pathologic changes of the heart or major vessels, which frequently were associated with noninfectious diseases. The results of this study emphasize the importance of cardiovascular disease in captive parrots.
27823429|A juvenile Meyer's parrot (Poicephalus meyeri) was presented for acute depression and crop stasis and died. On histopathologic examination, intranuclear inclusion bodies were seen in the liver, spleen, proventriculus, and intestinal mucosa. DNA in situ hybridization of tissues was positive for adenovirus and negative for herpesvirus, polyomavirus, and circovirus. Degenerate (polymerase chain reaction [PCR]) primers targeting a conserved region of adenovirus DNAdependent DNA polymerase were used to amplify and sequence a product from paraffin-embedded tissue. This is the first sequence information available for a psittacine adenovirus. Phylogenetic and comparative sequence analysis indicated that this virus is a member of the genus Aviadenovirus and is here termed Meyer's parrot adenovirus 1. Consensus nested PCR and sequencing can be used to rapidly identify novel adenoviruses, and DNA in situ hybridization may be used for rapid localization of novel viruses in tissues. Identification of adenoviral types and species will provide useful diagnostic, prognostic, and epidemiologic information for clinicians.
30133189|A black-masked blue lovebird (Agapornis personata) was presented because of lethargy and poor feathering. Examination revealed multiple firm swellings of the wings and sternum. Because of the bird's general condition and the number and size of the bony lesions, successful treatment was unlikely, and the bird was euthanatized. Result of histopathologic examination revealed the masses to be multiple exostoses.
30134520|Infection with avian polyomavirus is common in captive psittacine birds. While polyomavirus is rarely pathogenic in adult birds, infection of susceptible nestlings may result in a fatal disease. In this study, the prevalence of parrots with inapparent infection was investigated in four aviaries by two techniques: a specific polymerase chain reaction assay to detect viral DNA in cloacal swab and fecal samples, and a virus-neutralization assay to detect viral-specific antibodies in serum. The prevalence of infection, as determined by the results of these assays, was species, age, and aviary dependent. A high prevalence of infection was found in cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) (86.5%) and mature parrots (71.5%), while only 10% of budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) had evidence of viral exposure. However, most budgerigars in this study were of the English variety, suggesting that English budgerigars may be naturally resistant to infection with avian polyomavirus. In contrast, a high frequency of shedding was found in cockatiels, which suggests that they may be an important source of virus dissemination. A small subset (17.4%) of adult parrots that were infected with avian polyomavirus also shed virus one or more times. Assays of three cloacal swab samples obtained 6 months apart were necessary to detect all of the virusshedding birds. Viral-neutralizing antibody titers could not be used to predict which birds would shed virus. During the study period, the antibody titers of all of the cockatiels and 25% of the adult parrots declined to undetectable concentrations.
30135180|Tissue samples were examined from 13 parrots of various species and ages that had died with no significant macroscopic lesions. Tissue sections were stained by hematoxylin and eosin and periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stains and examined histologically. A PAS-positive membranous glomerulopathy and related lesions were found in all 13 birds. Death was considered a consequence of a generalized type III hypersensitivity reaction. Testing by polymerase chain reaction proved that all 13 birds were infected with avian polyomavirus. Therefore, in psittacine birds, a glomerulopathy with a positive PAS reaction may indicate possible infection with avian polyomavirus.
24623895|The avian hemogram is usually performed in veterinary diagnostic laboratories by using manual cell counting techniques and differential counts determined by light microscopy. There is no standard automated technique for avian blood cell count and differentiation to date. These shortcomings in birds are primarily because erythrocytes and thrombocytes are nucleated, which precludes the use of automated analyzers programmed to perform mammal complete blood cell counts. In addition, there is no standard avian antibody panel, which would allow cell differentiation by immunophenotyping across all commonly seen bird species. We report an alternative hematologic approach for quantification and differentiation of avian blood cells by using high-throughput image cytometry on blood smears in psittacine bird species. A pilot study was designed with 70 blood smears of different psittacine bird species stained with a Wright-Giemsa stain. The slides were scanned at 0.23 m/pixel. The open-source softwares CellProfiler and CellProfiler Analyst were used for analyzing and sorting each cell by image cytometry. A "pipeline" was constructed in the CellProfiler by using different modules to identify and export hundreds of measures per cell for shape, intensity, and texture. Rules for classifying the different blood cell phenotypes were then determined based on these measurements by iterative feedback and machine learning by using CellProfiler Analyst. Although this approach shows promises, avian Leukopet results could not be duplicated when using this technique as is. Further studies and more standardized prospective investigations may be needed to refine the "pipeline" strategy and the machine learning algorithm.
30134444|An unusual skin disorder characterized by dermolytic blistering, skin peeling, and loss of feathers was observed in young ostriches (Struthio camelus var. domesticus) on an ostrich farm. Results of histopathologic and electron microscopic examination of the skin of affected ostriches revealed a subepidermal bulla secondary to sublamina densa splitting. No other organs but the skin appeared to be affected, no causative infectious agents were found, and the disease was not transmissible to other ostrich chicks within the flock. The epidemiologic, clinical, and pathologic findings suggest a genetically related, dermolytic mechanobullous disease.
30130683|Schistosome ova were detected in histologic sections of six Chilean flamingos (Phoenicopterus chilensis) that died at the Calgary Zoo from 1988 to 1998. Death could be attributed in part to the presence of trematode ova in only one flamingo. Ova were most numerous and most consistently found in the pancreas, spleen, ventricular muscle, and proventricular submucosa. Other sites in which ova were found included the cerebellum, liver, kidneys, lungs, and skeletal muscle. Moderate inflammation was present around ova trapped in the hepatic parenchyma, but was minimal or absent in all other sites. Examination of necropsy records suggested that infection occurred before the birds were caught in Chile in 1988. On the basis of ova found in the aorta and in arterioles, the trematode was tentatively identified as belonging to the genus Dendritobilharzia.
40236556|Eyelid anomalies caused by congenital or acquired etiologies occur in birds. A cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) was presented for evaluation of fused eyelids on the right side and a narrowed palpebral fissure on the left side after a burn accident. The right eyelids were reconstructed, and the left palpebral fissure was lengthened by using microsurgical techniques. The cockatiel regained a normal appearance after surgery, and corneal disease was prevented.
30134870|Confirmed or suspected circoviral infection recently has been reported in several nonpsittacine birds. An overview of clinical signs of disease, gross lesions, and microscopic pathology of circoviral infections reported in nonpsittacine birds is presented. In addition, current methods of disease diagnosis, management, and prevention are discussed.
40236478|The cardiopulmonary and anesthetic effects of isoflurane and propofol were determined in 10 healthy, adult Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis). Anesthesia was induced and maintained with isoflurane in oxygen for 30 minutes. Cardiopulmonary parameters including heart rate, respiratory rate, relative arterial oxygen hemoglobin saturation (SpO), and esophageal temperature were recorded at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 minutes. End-tidal CO (EtCO) concentrations and inspired and expired end-tidal isoflurane concentrations were recorded continuously. Before the study continued, birds were allowed to recover from isoflurane anesthesia for at least 2 hours. In a second trial, anesthesia was induced by intravenous administration of propofol (5 mg/kg) and maintained for 30 minutes by constant rate infusion of propofol (1 mg/kg per min IV). No supplemental oxygen was provided. Cardiopulmonary parameters and EtCO concentrations were recorded as in the isoflurane trial. Induction times with propofol (51  40 sec; mean  SD) and isoflurane (58  15 sec) were rapid and not significantly different. No significant changes in heart rates and SpO values over time were seen with isoflurane anesthesia, but the respiratory rate decreased significantly from 41  17 breaths/min at 1 minute to 25  15 breaths/min at 10 minutes following induction. A significant decrease in respiratory rate was noted only at 2 (26  10 breaths/min) and 3 (29  12 breaths/min) minutes following induction with propofol. A significant increase in EtCO concentrations was recorded at 3 (37%  4%) minutes and thereafter with propofol anesthesia. No significant change in heart rate was observed over time. The SpO values significantly decreased below 90% at 2 minutes after induction with propofol and remained significantly decreased for the remainder of the anesthetic event. No significant differences in partial pressure of oxygen
27823392|An adult free-ranging great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) was presented depressed and in poor body condition. Results of hematologic testing revealed severe leukocytosis and lymphocytosis, and large lymphocytes containing large eccentric nuclei and prominent nucleoli were present on a peripheral blood smear. Hepatomegaly and renomegaly were evident radiographically. The owl was treated supportively but died 9 days after presentation. At necropsy, the liver and kidneys were severely enlarged, focal yellow plaques were present on air sac membranes, and small yellow granulomas were present in the lung parenchyma. On histopathologic examination, the liver, spleen, and kidneys were infiltrated with a homogeneous population of large lymphocytes with mitotic figures, and clusters of septate fungal hyphae resembling Aspergillus species were evident in lung parenchyma. Virus isolation was negative. The diagnosis was a lymphoproliferative disorder of unknown etiology and concurrent pulmonary aspergillosis.
30130717|A 2-year-old sun conure (Aratinga solstitialis) was examined because of acute lethargy and depression. Physical examination revealed severe weakness with ventroflexion of the head and neck and seizure episodes precipitated by handling. Empirical and supportive care was instituted, and serial diagnostic testing revealed no specific diagnosis or etiology. Antemortem test results for West Nile virus were negative. After 2 weeks of a deteriorating clinical condition, euthanasia was elected and necropsy was performed. Gross examination revealed no significant lesions; however, histologic examination of brain tissue revealed perivascular cuffing of mononuclear inflammatory cells in the cerebrum and mild perivascular, lymphocytic, and plasmacytic infiltrates scattered in the grey matter of the cervical spinal cord. Viral isolation of brain tissue was positive for West Nile virus.
30134518|Raptorial birds are often presented to veterinarians working in private practices or at rehabilitation centers. The most common reasons that raptors are presented to these facilities are traumatic injuries, real or mistaken abandoment by parent birds (orphan birds), and emaciation. Other causes for presentation include infectious diseases (bacterial, viral, and parasitic), toxicosis, neoplasia, genetic and developmental disorders, and diseases of unknown causes. We review the reported infectious and noninfectious causes of morbidity in raptors, as well as the causes of morbidity in free-living raptors presented to the California Raptor Center.
30133124|Proventricular dilatation syndrome (PDS) is a fatal disorder of several avian species. The histopathologic lesions of proventricular dilatation syndrome and avian viral serositis, a disease caused by eastern equine encephalomyelitis (EEE) virus, are similar. A study was done of samples from 56 psittacine birds, including 45 birds affected with PDS and 11 birds with no histologic changes associated with PDS, to determine if EEE is the causative agent of PDS. Methods used included DNA in situ hybridization with a 40-base oligomer complementary to a conserved region of the EEE virus genome, reverse-transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with primers complementary to this conserved region, and virus isolation. The presence of EEE virus or EEE-viral RNA was not detected in birds with PDS. Virus-neutralizing titers were measured in the sera of 17 birds to determine if those with PDS had been exposed to EEE virus. Exposure to EEE virus, represented by a positive virus-neutralization titer >8, was observed in the serum of 1 of 13 birds with PDS and in the sera of three of four birds that tested negative for PDS. From the results of this study, we conclude that EEE virus is not the causative agent of PDS.
27670701|Currently used dosages for external-beam megavoltage radiation therapy in birds have been extrapolated from mammalian patients and often appear to provide inadequate doses of radiation for effective tumor control. To determine the tolerance doses of cutaneous and mucosal tissues of normal birds in order to provide more effective radiation treatment for tumors that have been shown to be radiation responsive in other species, ingluvial mucosa and the skin over the ingluvies of 9 ring-necked parakeets (Psittacula krameri) were irradiated in 4-Gy fractions to a total dose of either 48, 60, or 72 Gy using an isocentric cobalt-60 teletherapy unit. Minimal radiation-induced epidermal changes were present in the high-dose group histologically. Neither dose-related acute nor chronic radiation effects could be detected in any group grossly in cutaneous or mucosal tissue over a 9-month period. Radiation doses of 72 Gy in 4-Gy fractions were well tolerated in the small number of ring-necked parakeets in this initial tolerance dose study.
30134170|The purpose of this retrospective study was to identify the types and causes of disorders that primarily or specifically afflict the membrana nictitans of birds. Seventeen wild, domestic, and pet exotic birds examined by the Ophthalmology Services at three institutional referral centers were identified with lesions of the third eyelid. Lesions were unilateral in 16 birds. Traumatic injury, with (three birds) and without (four birds) an associated foreign body, was the predominant cause of lesions. Neoplasia, presumed dystrophic mineralization, and inflammation with or without infection were equally represented (three birds each). One probable congenital malformation was identified. We conclude that although many specific and nonspecific external ocular disorders incidentally involve the membrana nictitans to a minor degree, clinically important primary disorders of the third eyelid seem distinctly uncommon in birds.
40236524|European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were fed an iron loading diet (3235 ppm) for 31 days to induce nonheme liver iron concentrations approaching those in birds that died with iron storage disease. All birds then were fed a low-iron diet (32-48 ppm) and assigned to 4 treatment groups: 1) low-iron diet only, 2) low-iron diet with phytate (inositol) and tannic acid, 3) low-iron diet and deferoxamine (100 mg/kg SC q24h), and 4) low-iron diet and phlebotomy (1% of body weight q7d). Starlings were treated for 16 weeks. In the groups treated with phlebotomy or with deferoxamine and a low-iron diet, nonheme liver iron concentrations decreased to safe levels after 16 weeks of treatment at similar rates (190 ppm/wk and 163 ppm/wk, respectively). The low-iron diet alone reduced stored liver iron levels at a slower rate (45 ppm/wk). The addition of inositol and tannic acid to the low-iron diet had no impact on stored liver iron concentrations. These results suggest that both phlebotomy and treatment with deferoxamine are effective treatment options for birds with iron storage disease.
30130700|Palatine bone luxation was diagnosed in a blue-and-gold macaw (Ara ararauna) on the basis of history, physical examination, and radiographic findings. The bird had a history of recent head trauma and subsequent inability to prehend food. Physical examination findings were normal except for a hyperextended maxillary beak. Simple reduction of the luxation was unsuccessful. Detailed analysis of radiographs, anatomic descriptions, and cadaver dissections revealed that the hyperextended maxillary beak was caused by the dorsal luxation of the palatine bones. The luxation was surgically reduced by introducing an intramedullary pin transversely across the infraorbital sinus dorsal to the palatine bones. The maxillary beak was then hyperextended while the luxated palatine bones were concurrently reduced ventrally to their anatomic position. The luxation was stabilized by passing absorbable suture around the suborbital arch and jugal bones bilaterally. Reduction and stabilization was successful; however, the macaw died of anesthetic complications after surgery.
40793253|To determine pharmacokinetic parameters of orally administered terbinafine hydrochloride for potential treatment of aspergillosis in raptors, 10 adult red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) were used in single dose trials by using 15, 30, and 60 mg/kg doses with a 2-week washout period between trials. After administration of 15 mg/kg terbinafine, mean ( SD) plasma concentration peaked in approximately 5 hours at 0.3  0.24 g/mL, whereas a 30 mg/kg dose resulted in peak mean ( SD) plasma concentration of 1.2  0.40 g/mL in 3 hours and a 60 mg/kg dose resulted in mean ( SD) concentration of 2.0  0.75 g/mL in 5 hours. The volume of distribution decreased with increasing doses, averaging 76.8  38.06 mL/kg for the 15 mg/kg dose and falling to 55.2  17.4 mL/kg for the 30 mg/kg dose. This suggests that terbinafine accumulated in deep tissues, limiting further distribution at higher doses. The harmonic mean ( SD) half-life was biphasic, with initial values of 14.7  6.67 hours, 17.5  8.7 hours, and 13.3  5.03 hours for 15, 30, and 60 mg/kg doses, respectively. A rapid firstelimination phase was followed by a slower second phase, and final elimination was estimated to be 161  78.2 and 147  65.6 hours for 15 and 30 mg/kg doses, respectively. Linearity was demonstrated for the area under the curve but not for peak plasma concentrations for the 3 doses used. Calculations based on pharmacokinetic parameter values indicated that a dosage of 22 mg/kg terbinafine q24h would result in steady-state trough plasma concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration of terbinafine (0.8-1.6 g/mL). This dosage is recommended as a potential treatment option for aspergillosis in raptors. However, additional research is required to determine both treatment efficacy and safety.
30133186|A ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus), a rock dove (Columba livia), and a red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) were each presented with a large soft tissue wound on the head with exposed skull. Each bird was treated with wound debridement, removal of necrotic bone, and grafting of a single pedicle advancement flap from the adjacent dorsal cervical skin. Wounds in the pheasant and hawk healed without complication. In the rock dove, the initial flap necrosed, but a second single pedicle advancement flap, elevated from the dorsal cervical skin, was successful. The final result in all 3 birds was complete coverage of the defect with full-thickness skin. In birds, use of single pedicle advancement flaps mobilized from dorsal cervical skin may expedite healing of large soft tissue wounds of the head, especially when the skull is exposed.
30135210|This article provides an overview of the clinical applications of fluid therapy in avian species. Fluid therapy is basic to avian medicine, and knowledge of avian renal physiology as it pertains to fluid dynamics is necessary to understand therapeutic principles. When formulating a fluid therapy plan, the clinical condition and temperament of the avian patient must be evaluated individually. The type of fluid supplement and the route of administration are then selected according to the needs of the avian patient and the dynamics of the disease process being addressed.
24624833|To evaluate the relationship between osmolality and specific gravity of urine samples from clinically normal adult parrots and to determine a formula to convert urine specific gravity (USG) measured on a reference scale to a more accurate USG value for an avian species, urine samples were collected opportunistically from a colony of Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis). Samples were analyzed by using a veterinary refractometer, and specific gravity was measured on both canine and feline scales. Osmolality was measured by vapor pressure osmometry. Specific gravity and osmolality measurements were highly correlated (r = 0.96). The linear relationship between refractivity measurements on a reference scale and osmolality was determined. An equation was calculated to allow specific gravity results from a medical refractometer to be converted to specific gravity values of Hispaniolan Amazon parrots: USGHAp = 0.201 + 0.798(USGref). Use of the reference-canine scale to approximate the osmolality of parrot urine leads to an overestimation of the true osmolality of the sample. In addition, this error increases as the concentration of urine increases. Compared with the human-canine scale, the feline scale provides a closer approximation to urine osmolality of Hispaniolan Amazon parrots but still results in overestimation of osmolality.
30133222|Medical records and necropsy reports of 410 pigeons and doves from the Zoological Society of San Diego were examined to determine if birds treated with fenbendazole (FBZ) or albendazole (ABZ) had a higher incidence of toxic-related signs than untreated control birds. Birds presented for nonmedical reasons (quarantine, relocation, preshipment examinations, and routine parasite screening) were used exclusively to avoid confounding variables. Birds were observed for 45 days after presentation. Compared with a 4-6% mean weight gain in control birds during the treatment period or hospitalization, birds treated with FBZ had a mean weight loss of 16.1% (P < .001), and birds treated with ABZ had a mean weight loss of 13.3% (P = .004). The percentage of birds with marked leukopenia (white blood cell < 1000/l) was higher in FBZ-treated birds (87.5%, P < .001) and ABZ-treated birds (100%, P = .013) than in control birds (12.5%). Bone marrow hypoplasia was found in FBZ-treated birds (48.6%, P < .001) and ABZ-treated birds (83.3%, P < .001) but not in control birds (0%). Small intestinal crypt epithelial changes were not found in control birds but were identified in 35.1% of FBZ-treated birds (P < .001) and in 58.3% of ABZ-treated birds (P < .001). Percent survival was lower in FBZ-treated birds (55.9%, P < .001) and ABZ-treated birds (66.7%, P < .001) than in control birds (90%). Of the birds that died during observation, those treated with FBZ (mean 13.9 days, P < .001) and ABZ (mean 9.3 days, P < .001) had shorter average survival times after presentation than did control birds (mean 29.8 days). Fenbendazole effects appear to be dose related. Birds treated with 100 mg/kg of FBZ showed significantly greater mean weight loss (18.8%) and lower survival (14.8%) than did birds treated with 50 mg/kg of FBZ, with 8.3% weight loss (P = .005) and 75.4% survival (P < .001). Of the birds that died during observation, those treated with 100 mg/kg of FBZ had shorter mean survival times after treatment (7.9 days) than did birds treated with 50 mg/kg of FBZ (23.9 days, P < .001). These findings are consistent with a toxic etiology and suggest that birds of the order Columbiformes are susceptible to toxicosis after FBZ or ABZ administration.
41318149|The purpose of this study was to establish a technique for collecting semen from blue-fronted Amazon parrots (Amazona aestiva aestiva) and to evaluate the samples that were collected. The massage method is the most common technique used to collect semen in birds and has been proven successful in several psittacine species; however, collection attempts in larger parrots have been unsatisfactory. Six blue-fronted Amazon parrot males, 3 paired with hens and 3 unpaired, were used in this study. The semen collection technique was revised to allow collection from individual birds by a single person. Semen collection was attempted from the 6 parrots on 52-56 occasions, which totaled 330 single attempts. Nineteen ejaculates were collected, and each bird produced at least 1 ejaculate that contained spermatozoa. Large ranges of sample volume (1-15.4 L), sperm quality (motility = 2%-60%; live: dead ratio = 2 : 198 to 185 : 15), sperm concentration (0.79-3.3  10 sperm/mL), and contamination rate (0%-100%) were observed. Measured parameters did not appear to be significantly impacted by birds being paired or kept singly. Because of the relatively short acclimation period, the birds appeared to be sexually inactive for the majority of the study. Further research using sexually active birds will be necessary to determine standard spermatological parameters and verify the success of the methodology used here.
40236599|To evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of voriconazole for the treatment of aspergillosis in falcons, 20 falcons with aspergillosis admitted to the Dubai Falcon Hospital from August 2003 to May 2006 were treated with voriconazole. These falcons included 6 gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus), 10 gyrfalcon hybrids, 1 lanner (Falco biarmicus), 1 saker (Falco cherrug), and 2 peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus). Clinical signs were weight loss, inappetence, dyspnea, inspiratory stridor, tachypnea, and biliverdinuria. Aspergillosis was diagnosed from clinical signs, hematologic results, radiographic abnormalities, endoscopic examination of the lower respiratory tract, cytologic examination of biopsy samples from air sacs, and fungal cultures. Birds treated with voriconazole administered by crop gavage were divided into 2 groups: in group 1, birds were treated with 12.5 mg/kg q12h for 3 days (loading dose), then q24h for an additional 18 to 87 days; in group 2, birds were treated with 12.5 mg/kg q12h for the full period of 44 to 100 days. Treatment with voriconazole resulted in a successful clinical response in most cases, an acceptable survival rate, and few adverse effects. Complete clinical resolution occurred in 14 birds (70%), a partial response in 5 birds (25%), and 1 bird (5%) died during treatment. From these results, voriconazole appeared to be effective and safe for the treatment of aspergillosis in some species of falcons.
24624834|The object of this study was to establish a minimum dose of ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation capable of producing an erythemal reaction in budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus), to determine a threshold dose of UVB for vitamin D photoconversion, and to investigate the use of safer UVB wavelengths. In each of 5 experiments of this study, 20 birds were divided into a control group (n = 10) and a UVB irradiated group (n = 10). Light sources that provide broadband UVB wavelengths (280315 nm) and narrowband UVB (310320 nm) were used. Varied doses of UVB radiation were administered to budgerigars by altering exposure time and irradiance. Safety was determined by observing body weight and incidence of photokeratitis and photodermatitis. Efficacy was evaluated by measuring changes in serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol levels. Serum corticosterone was measured in 1 experiment to monitor stress levels. The results demonstrated that exposure to 180 mJ/cm2 broadband UVB induced vitamin D photoconversion, decreased body weights, and increased serum corticosterone levels. At these wavelengths, UVB-induced lesions were observed. A broadband UVB of 150 to 300 mJ/cm2 was determined as the minimum erythema dose, and the threshold dose for vitamin D photoconversion was calculated to be in the range of 113225 mJ/cm2. No erythemal lesions or vitamin D photoconversion took place after exposure to up to 1730 mJ/cm2 narrowband UVB radiation. A minimum erythema dose and a threshold dose for vitamin D conversion need to be determined for each species if phototherapy is to be considered as a safe and effective therapeutic or husbandry tool.
30135194|The use of heterologous blood transfusions in birds is controversial. The purpose of this study was to determine the survival of fluorescent-labeled red blood cells (RBCs) after single and multiple transfusions in compatible cross-matched groups of birds. Twenty cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) were equally divided into four transfusion groups: an autologous or control group (transfusion to same bird); a homologous group (cockatiel to cockatiel), a heterologous group of two species in the same taxonomic family (blue-fronted Amazon parrot [Amazona aestiva] to cockatiel), and a heterologous group of two species in different orders (pigeon [Columba livia] to cockatiel). Donor blood (1 ml) was centrifuged and the plasma discarded. The washed RBCs were stained with a fluorescent dye and transfused into recipient cockatiels. Three RBC transfusions using the same donor-recipient pairs were administered at 0, 7, and 9 weeks, and then serial blood samples were analyzed by using flow cytometry to measure fluorescent-labeled RBCs remaining in circulation over time. The fluorescent-labeled RBC half-life was significantly longer in the autologous and homologous groups (range, 10.5 to 16.8 days) than in the two heterologous groups (range, 0.1 to 2.6 days) after all three transfusions (P < .001 for all comparisons). No difference was found in half-life of RBCs between the two heterologous groups after any of the transfusions or between the autologous and homologous groups after transfusions 1 and 2. After transfusion 3, the half-life was longer in the autologous group than in the homologous group (P < .001). We conclude that fluorescent-labeled RBC survival is comparable after autologous and homologous avian transfusions; however, heterologous transfusions result in significantly shorter half-life of transfused RBCs, regardless of taxonomic relatedness. Therefore, heterologous transfusions in birds may not be efficacious.
27823446|A 12-year-old male pigeon (Columba livia) demonstrated anorexia, lethargy, emaciation, and loose droppings on clinical examination. The most striking finding was the distention of the abdominal region caused by the presence of a soft tissue mass, which was detected by palpation. Radiographs and surgery thereafter confirmed the presence of the solid tissue mass, which was diagnosed as a Sertoli cell tumor on histopathologic examination. Sertoli cell tumors are rare in birds, and this is the first known report of this tumor in a pigeon.
30130714|An adult female hyacinth macaw (Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus) was presented for sudden onset of severe weakness in the legs. Neurologic examination revealed bilateral paresis of the pelvic limbs and decreased proprioception. Results of radiographs and computed tomography (CT) revealed variably sized soft tissue nodules throughout the lungs and invading into the spine and vertebral canal. Soon after the CT scan, the bird went into cardiorespiratory arrest and died. At necropsy, several yellow, coalescing nodules that were firm with a caseous component were present in the lungs, and a focus of similar tissue was attached to the vertebrae and invaded the spinal canal. On histologic examination, the diagnosis was primary pulmonary bronchial adenocarcinoma with spinal invasion.
30134474|Polyostotic hyperostosis is a radiographic finding that is often seen in companion birds. Hyperestrogenism might be causative. The purpose of this study was to compare endocrinologic and pathologic findings in birds with polyostotic hyperostosis. Thirty-five birds with polyostotic hyperostosis and three control birds were examined. Blood samples were taken for endocrinologic evaluation (estrone, estradiol, testosterone, and estrone sulfate concentrations) and the values compared with pathologic findings. Our findings did not support the hypothesis that polyostotic hyperostosis is caused by hyperestrogenism.
40236479|We compared a radioimmunoassay and an enzymatic method to measure plasma bile acid concentrations of chickens and 5 psittacine genera. The 2 assays compared well with r values ranging from 0.77 to 0.92. The radioimmunoassay was linear to 50 mol/L, and the enzymatic method, to 200 xmol/L. When measured by the enzymatic method, bile acid concentrations were decreased in the presence of hemolysis and falsely increased in the presence of lipemia and high concentrations of lactate dehydrogenase. Results for both assays showed only small changes when samples were stored at -20C and -70C; however, storage at 4C resulted in decreases in bile acid concentrations that were greater than 50% after 4 days. An advantage of the enzymatic method is that it can be performed more quickly than the radioimmunoassay and without the special procedures and guidelines applying to use of radioisotopes. However, the radioimmunoassay requires lower sample volumes (50 l of plasma) than the enzymatic method (up to 400 l unless the assay has been specifically adapted) and is not affected by hemolysis, lipemia, or elevated LDH concentrations. Others have found both assays to have adequate precision and accuracy. Therefore, the advantages and disadvantages of each should be weighed when selecting assay method. Clinicians should use assay-specific reference ranges as well as the same laboratory for paired determinations from the same patient.
30130667|Plasma and tissue concentrations of itraconazole were established by high-performance liquid chromatography in racing pigeons (Columba livia domestica) after oral administration of 10.3 mg/kg itraconazole. Peak plasma concentrations were observed 4 h after administration and were 1.13  0.44 g/ml (
27823337|The normal flora of free-living red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and Cooper's hawks (Accipiter cooperii) has not been well described. We trapped and banded 10 free-living red-tailed hawks and 10 free-living Cooper's hawks during the 1992 fall migration in Marin County, CA, USA. Three choanal and 3 cloacal swabs were collected from each bird to characterize the aerobic bacterial flora. Cloacal swabs were obtained from an additional 24 free-living birds, 13 red-tailed hawks and 11 Cooper's hawks, specifically for isolation of Salmonella species. Moreover, 3 choanal and 3 cloacal swabs were collected for comparison from 7 captive red-tailed hawks and 3 captive Cooper's hawks. Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus/Micrococcus species and Corynebacterium species were the most frequent choanal isolates from both free-living and captive red-tailed hawks as well as from free-living Cooper's hawks, while Corynebacterium and Pasteurella species were the most frequent choanal isolates from captive Cooper's hawks. The most frequent cloacal isolates of both free-living and captive red-tailed hawks were coagulase-negative Staphylococcus/Micrococcus species and Streptococcus species; those from free-living Cooper's hawks were coagulase-negative Staphylococcus/Micrococcus species and Escherichia species; and those from captive Cooper's hawks were Escherichia species, coagulase-positive Staphylococcus species, and Streptococcus species. Escherichia species were not isolated from the choana of free-living birds, while Pasteurella species were not isolated from the cloaca of any birds. Corynebacterium species and Bacillus species were isolated from the cloaca of free-living red-tailed hawks and Cooper's hawks but not from captive birds. Salmonella species were isolated from the cloaca of free-living birds of both species but not from captive birds. Although primary bacterial infections are not a common cause of disease in raptors, an understanding of normal microbial flora may help in interpreting the significance of bacterial isolates in ill birds.
41496982|A 1-year old, male canary (Serinus canaria) with a history of an enlarged abdomen of several days duration died acutely and was submitted for necropsy. Results revealed a yellow to tan hard mass, 2 cm in diameter, adherent to the cloacal wall. Histologically, the mass was composed of interlacing bundles of pleomorphic spindle cells with numerous and bizarre mitotic figures. Neoplastic cells were positive for vimentin and negative for desmin and actin and showed ultrastructural features (dilated stacks of rough endoplasmic reticulum, intermediate filaments, rare collagen secretion granules, lack of external lamina) typical of fibroblasts. Based on these results, the diagnosis was cloacal fibrosarcoma, previously not reported in canaries.
27753655|Information on perching-joint angles in birds is limited. Joint immobilization in a physiologic perching angle has the potential to result more often in complete restoration of limb function. We evaluated perching-joint angles in 10 healthy cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus), 10 Hispaniolan Amazons (Amazona ventralis), and 9 barred owls (Strix varia) and determined intra- and interobserver variability for goniometric measurements in 2 different radiographic projections. Intra- and interobserver variation was less than 7% for all stifle and intertarsal joint measurements but frequently exceeded 10% for the hip-joint measurements. Hip, stifle, and intertarsal perching angles differed significantly among cockatiels, Hispaniolan Amazon parrots, and barred owls. The accuracy of measurements performed on straight lateral radiographic projections with superimposed limbs was not consistently superior to measurements on oblique projections with a slightly rotated pelvis. Stifle and intertarsal joint angles can be measured on radiographs by different observers with acceptable variability, but intra- and interobserver variability for hip-jointangle measurements is higher.
30130711|Voriconazole, a highly potent triazole antifungal agent with high in vitro activity against a wide variety of fungal pathogens, appears to be an option for the treatment of aspergillosis in birds. To gain initial information on pharmacokinetics, bioavailability, and tissue distribution of voriconazole in birds, we evaluated voriconazole in chickens in a 4-part study that analyzed dose linearity, bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, and tissue distribution. Chickens received voriconazole orally and/or intravenously. Blood samples were drawn and analyzed by validated high-pressure liquid chromatography and high-pressure liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry methods. Voriconazole was detectable at low concentrations in plasma up to 6 hours after oral administration, which resulted in a low absolute bioavailability. Concentrations in tissues 12 hours after administration could be quantified up to 7.37 g/g (liver). No accumulation in tissues could be detected after 30 days of oral treatment with 10 mg/kg voriconazole. Clinical application of voriconazole for the treatment of aspergillosis in birds appears to be promising, because this drug has a high effectiveness and wide tissue distribution, and long-term treatment did not cause clinical signs of adverse effects or organ damage in chickens.
30134888|This investigation assessed the cardiopulmonary performance, core body temperatures, and arterial blood gases of Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) during 60 minutes of isoflurane anesthesia, using the Hallowell EMC Anesthesia WorkStation (AWS) in combination with controlled intermittent positive pressure ventilation (C-IPPV) or a nonrebreathing system (Bain circuit) with spontaneous ventilation (SV) (n = 6 birds/group). Direct arterial blood pressures, arterial blood gases, end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETco), end-tidal isoflurane concentration, heart rates, respiratory rates, and esophageal temperatures were monitored during a 60-minute period of isoflurane anesthesia. Compared with baseline measurements and SV, C-IPPV significantly decreased Paco and increased pHa but did not significantly reduce mean arterial blood pressure. No significant difference in esophageal temperature was observed between the birds receiving C-IPPV and those breathing spontaneously on the Bain circuit. The PaCO-ETco gradient was significantly greater in birds receiving SV compared with birds receiving C-IPPV. According to the measured parameters, there were neither deleterious effects nor any apparent advantages associated with positive pressure ventilation. The Hallowell EMC AWS appears to be safe and effective when anesthetizing small birds and will be particularly useful during anesthetic periods when positive pressure ventilation is indicated.
30135184|A juvenile umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba) was examined because of an 8-month history of mild weight loss and recurrent bouts of abdominal tenesmus and enteritis. Key findings on physical examination included a palpable ventriculus that was caudoventrally displaced. Contrast radiographs confirmed partial proventricular obstruction, with the presence of linear foreign objects in the proventriculus. The cockatoo was treated by proventriculostomy, and 15 pieces of chewed and splintered wooden perch material were successfully removed. Rigid endoscopy, used intraoperatively, helped substantially in ensuring all foreign material was removed from this bird.
30134491|A 20-month-old female emu (Dromaius novehollandiae) was examined for nonweight-bearing lameness of the right leg after a traumatic episode of being caught in a fence. Results of the physical examination, radiography, and plasma biochemical analysis indicated severe muscle damage had occurred to the right leg. No skeletal abnormalities were evident radiographically, but lacerations and abrasions of the right leg and medial toe were treated and bandaged. Based on clinical impression and lack of osseous damage radiographically, exertional myopathy was suspected. Supportive care and antiinflammatory therapy failed to improve the clinical condition of the emu, and it was euthanatized. Histopathology of the skeletal muscle confirmed the antemortem diagnosis of capture myopathy. The generally excitable disposition of ratites (ie, emus, ostriches, rheas) predispose these animals to exertional myopathy, especially in poorly managed facilities.
24623518|Over a 2-month period, individual birds belonging to species in multiple avian families, including Bucerotidae, Sturnidae, Columbidae, Corvidae, and Anatidae, were presented to the Animal Care Center at the Phoenix Zoo for emergency medical care. Common clinical findings were subdued behavior, weight loss, and an inability to fly. Biochemical abnormalities commonly included high calcium and uric acid concentrations and high to high-normal phosphorus concentrations. In cases in which necropsies were done, mineralization of organs often was present, frequently of the kidneys and cardiovascular system. Because of the high calcium and phosphorus concentrations, mineralization of tissues, cases representing multiple avian species, and the recent addition of rodent bait boxes containing cholecalciferol to the zoo's pest control program, a presumptive diagnosis of cholecalciferol toxicosis was made. Treatment most commonly consisted of daily fluid diuresis. These cases demonstrate that, although cholecalciferol is considered unlikely to cause relay toxicosis, primary toxicosis still should be considered in cases with sudden onset of nonspecific signs when exposure to cholecalciferol was possible.
30134445|An adult red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus) was examined because of a right comminuted, compound fracture of the femoral neck. Results of hematologic testing showed a high heterophil count with a normal PCV and total protein. Radiographs confirmed the diagnosis. Because of the comminuted nature of the fracture, a femoral head ostectomy by a lateral approach was elected as the treatment of choice. An Ehmer sling was applied for 10 days after surgery and a gradual increase in exercise was encouraged until the bird was again using its leg completely.
30130710|The Spix's macaw, or little blue macaw (Cyanopsitta spixii), is one of the most critically endangered bird species in the world. In 1990, the Brazilian Nature Conservation Authority established a permanent committee to oversee the captive breeding of about 20 individual Spix's macaws held in various locations throughout the world. Al Wabra Wildlife Preservation (AWWP) successfully bred 10 Spix's macaws in the 2005 and 2006 breeding seasons but intermittent episodes of postfeeding regurgitation in hand-raised chicks prompted the need to better understand and monitor the nutritional and physiologic requirements of growing nestlings. To ascertain and rank the possible causes of regurgitation in chicks, we undertook a critical analysis of the feeding, growth, and health data recorded for each individual hand-raised chick. Factors such as the total daily food intake (TDFI), growth curves, nursery room climate (temperature and humidity), and nutritional requirements were investigated as well as any health issues. Chicks attained a maximum body weight of 375  25 g at 45 days and then gradually lost weight until they reached a weaning weight of 300  30 g. The maximum daily volume of food that each chick received was 101  29 g at 42 days of age, which was also the age at which a peak in postfeeding regurgitation episodes occurred. The TDFI as a percentage of body weight peaked (83.1  12.3%) at day 3 of age and dropped to 30.1  2.3% by day 45 and then to 19.6  1.1% at day 92. Detailed analyses of the 2005 and 2006 records indicate that the regurgitation episodes may be primarily the result of overfeeding during the second trimester of hand-rearing. Our results indicate that smaller meals during the period when chicks are attaining their maximum body weights may contribute to a decrease in the occurrence of regurgitation episodes in hand-reared Spix's macaws.
40793207|A 1-year-old female yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) was diagnosed with chronic discospondylitis on the basis of clinical signs and results of hmatologie tests, radiography, and computed tomography. Despite significant destruction of the affected vertebral bodies and gross malformation of the spine, neurologic function was unaffected. Treatment with antibiotics, antifungals, and swimming physiotherapy was attempted, but the bird died after 40 days of hospitalization. Histopathologic lesions observed at necropsy were severe chronic discospondylitis, chronic granulomatous tracheitis, proventricular ulcration, and adrenal hemorrhage. The suspected inciting cause of the discospondylitis was a reported population-wide oral stomatitis that affects yellow-eyed penguin chicks.
41318153|A 15-year-old female red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) was evaluated because of dyspnea, anorexia, and coelomic distension. Diagnostic imaging results confirmed severe coelomic effusion and revealed a markedly dilated right ventricle. The diagnosis was right-sided congestive heart failure. Results of measurements of vitamin E, selenium, lead, zinc, and cardiac troponin levels were normal or nondiagnostic. The hawk was treated with furosemide, antifungal and antimicrobial agents, and supplemental fluids and oxygen, but euthanasia was elected because of the poor prognosis and the practical difficulties associated with intensive case management. To our knowledge, this is the first described case of cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure in a captive red-tailed hawk.
30135264|Oil spills affect aquatic birds on individual, population, and ecosystem levels. Communities have responded to environmental accidents and have cared for oiled birds for as long as the damaging effects of oil exposure have been realized. Not until the Exxon Valdez disaster occurred, however, was there the political climate necessary to facilitate and fund organized oiled wildlife responses in the United States. Federal and California law now supports the infrastructure necessary to respond rapidly and efficiently to oil spills affecting wildlife. This improved infrastructure has resulted in access to appropriately designed and equipped facilities, trained staff and volunteers, and research improving medical management and bird survival.
41318129|In the Middle East there are great pressures on the environment and wildlife. Indeed, many species are teetering on the edge of extinction. Wildlife health, management, and welfare are poorly understood concepts and are not important priorities for regional governments. What can be done to raise the level of awareness to wildlife health, management, and welfare in a region where most people live in large modern cities detached from nature? In this article, I relate the story of how a small group of colleagues and I harnessed our frustration at the pervasive indifference to conservation to positive effect. We took action to establish Wildlife Middle East News, an information resource to raise awareness of conservation issues and to enable better management and welfare of wildlife. This case study demonstrates how individuals, such as biologists, veterinarians, and environmental educators working with wildlife in narrow professional arenas can play a role in the solution of wider environmental problems.
27823374|Bacterial diseases are common in captive cranes. Administration of antimicrobial drugs in the drinking water could provide a nonstressful means of treatment in these birds. This preliminary study was conducted to determine if therapeutic plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin, its primary active metabolite ciprofloxacin, or both, could be achieved and maintained in sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) after administration in drinking water at a concentration of 50 ppm. Drinking water medicated with enrofloxacin was provided ad libitum to 8 healthy sandhill cranes (4 housed individually and 4 housed in pairs) for 14 days. Mean enrofloxacin plasma concentrations (SD) were 0.03 (0.02), 0.03 (0.02), 0.02 (0.01), and 0.01 (0.00) g/ml on days 2, 6, 10, and 14, respectively. Mean ciprofloxacin plasma concentrations paralleled those of enrofloxacin but were slightly lower, ranging from 0.01 to 0.02 g/ml. Enrofloxacin and ciprofloxacin concentrations both were below accepted therapeutic plasma concentrations for birds. Based on the plasma concentrations achieved in this preliminary study and the minimum inhibitory concentration values for bacteria commonly isolated from poultry species, enrofloxacin-medicated water would only be effective for treating infections of highly susceptible bacteria in sandhill cranes.
27823388|Buprenorphine is a synthetic mixed agonist-antagonist opiate analgesic that is used in a variety of species. To determine if a dose of buprenorphine at 0.1 mg/kg achieves plasma concentrations in parrots that would be analgesic in humans (0.51.0 ng/ml), we administered a single dose of buprenorphine (at 0.1 mg/kg) either intramuscularly (5 birds) or intravenously (1 bird) to African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus erithacus). Serial plasma samples were taken before and at 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2, 6, and 8 hours after administration. For a single intramuscular dose, buprenorphine was rapidly absorbed, and plasma concentrations had a mean residence time of 1.0 hour, elimination half-life of 1.0 hour, and maximum concentration of 68.7 ng/ml, determined by using noncompartmental analysis. This dose of buprenorphine can achieve plasma levels for at least 2 hours in the African grey parrot for comparable analgesic levels in humans, however buprenorphine is not recommended as an analgesic treatment for parrots until pharmacokinetic and analgesia studies are done at higher doses.
40984807|A 1.5-year-old, male blue and gold macaw (Ara ar ar auna) was anesthetized for a health examination and blood collection. The following day it was returned for episodes of coughing. The bird was presented again 13 days after the initial presentation with severe dyspnea. A tracheal stenosis was diagnosed by endoscopy and treated by surgical resection of 5 tracheal rings and tracheal anastomosis. The bird was discharged but returned 2 days later with a recurrent stenosis. Bougienage and balloon dilation of the stenotic area were performed separately; each resulted in less than 48 hours' improvement in clinical signs after treatment. A second tracheal resection and anastomosis was performed, during which an additional 10 tracheal rings were removed. This second anastomosis was significantly more difficult to complete given the marked variation in diameter of the proximal and distal tracheal segments. The macaw recovered without complication and has had no recurrence of respiratory abnormalities 2 years after the second surgery. This report describes the longest total tracheal segment to be resected, followed by tracheal anastomosis, in a psittacine bird. The positive outcome in this case suggests that, when surgical therapy is elected, an aggressive approach is necessary to prevent recurrence of tracheal stenosis. In addition, macaws can recover well even after significant lengths of the trachea are resected.
27823458|Clinical signs of renal disorders in animals, including raptors, are not specific. Furthermore, serum or plasma biochemical parameters change only when 70% of kidney function is lost. In this study, reference values of urine variables were established in clinically healthy falcons. Urine samples were collected from 78 mature (>1 year) and immature (612 months) male and female falcons belonging to 5 species. Droppings were assessed visually for urate color and consistency and color of the liquid urine. The liquid urine was collected by aspiration into a syringe and centrifuged, and the supernatant analyzed by commercial dipstick and by a wet chemistry analysis for alkaline phosphatase, gamma glutamyl transferase, glucose, chloride, and total protein concentrations. Sex, age, and species did not affect results of biochemical urine values (P > .05). Urine biochemical values did not differ significantly between fasted and fed birds. Total protein levels in urine samples decreased after 24-hour storage at 4C. Reference ranges for clinically normal birds are reported.
30134461|Zinc toxicity was diagnosed and treated in a hyacinth macaw. On examination, the bird was recumbent, depressed, dehydrated, anorexic, thin, enophthalmic with sluggish nictitans, and had stringy, white oral mucus and malodorous, voluminous, brilliant lime-green feces. Radiographs revealed a ventricular, metallic foreign body and small intestinal dilatation. Blood and biochemical testing revealed leukocytosis with heterophilia, low calcium, and high creatinine kinase, uric acid, and bile acids. Plasma zinc was 24 ppm. Treatment included supportive care, chelation, and administration of laxatives. Edetate calcium disodium injections were given daily for 5 days, followed by daily oral administration of 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid for 10 days. Zinc concentrations and clinical signs resolved. The foreign body was successfully passed. Potential side effects of edetate calcium disodium include polydipsia; the lesser-known dimercaptosuccinic acid appeared to be a safe and effective chelator. Padlocks and chrome-plated cage bars were the most likely source of the zinc.
30134873|Preprandial and postprandial plasma uric acid concentrations were evaluated in 12 healthy blackfooted penguins (Spheniscus demersus). Five male and 7 female penguins were fasted overnight, and blood was collected the next morning. Four days later, the same group of birds was given a morning feeding of fish ad libitum. Each bird's food consumption was recorded over a 2-hour feeding period. A blood sample was collected from each bird after removal of the fish (0- to 2-hour postprandial sample) and again 4 hours later (4- to 6-hour postprandial sample). Plasma samples were analyzed for uric acid and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentrations. In the 8 birds that consumed food during the 2-hour feeding period, plasma uric acid concentrations were significantly higher in both the 0- to 2-hour and 4- to 6-hour postprandial samples than in the preprandial samples. Uric acid concentrations were significantly lower in the 4- to 6-hour postprandial samples than in the 0- to 2-hour postprandial samples. Preprandial uric acid concentrations were <10 mg/dl, and 0- to 2-hour postprandial concentrations were >13.4 mg/dl (mean concentration = 21.2 mg/dl). No significant differences were found between preprandial and postprandial BUN concentrations. In penguins, uric acid concentrations must be measured after a fast to avoid a possible misdiagnosis of renal disease or gout.
30133140|Indocyanine green was used to determine the blood volume of galahs (Eolophus roseicapillus). Plasma clearance and retention of a single intravenous bolus dose of indocyanine green was measured in duplicate in 10 galahs of mixed age and gender. Indocyanine green was administered intravenously at 0.5 mg/kg, and blood samples were collected at 3, 6, and 9 minutes after injection. The light absorbance of the plasma at 805 nm was measured by spectrophotometer. Blood volume and clearance values were determined from the initial linear portion of the clearance curves. Percentage blood volume (mean  SD) was 10.61  2.92% of body weight. The half-life of indocyanine green was 5.42  0.76 minutes; the fractional excretion, 13.0  1.56% per minute; the plasma clearance, 5.92  1.87 ml/min/kg; and the 9-minute percentage retention, 12.2  9%.
40984728|To establish reference values for the cardiac size during radiographic examination in 4 species of Falconiformes used for falconry, lateral and ventrodorsal radiographs were examined from healthy birds of 4 species: Harris' hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus) (n = 48), peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) (n = 35), saker falcons (Falco cherrug) (n = 19), and lanner falcons (Falco biarmicus) (n = 13). On the lateral view, ratios between the length of the heart from base to apex and total length of the carina were calculated. On the ventrodorsal view, ratios between the width of the heart at its widest point and the distance between the ribs at the same level and between the width of the coracoid immediately caudal to the humeral articular surface in the shoulder joint and width of the heart and the distance between the ribs were calculated. No differences were found between species in the ratio of length of the heart/length of the carina. The ratios of width of the heart/distance between ribs and width of the heart/coracoid width differed between hawks and falcons but did not differ between the 3 falcon species.
27753674|An adult male prairie falcon (Falco mexicanus) was presented for evaluation and treatment of self-inflicted wounds along the right proximal patagium. The bird had started self-traumatizing approximately 1 month after fracturing the right metacarpus, although the fracture had stabilized, surface wounds had healed completely, and treatment with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug had been administered. The bird was treated with gabapentin (11 mg/kg PO q12h), ketamine (0.5 mg/kg IM q24h), and low level laser therapy (LLLT) (&lt;5 mW, 630680 nm, 5-second application per site) for 3 weeks, but, despite initial improvement, new self-inflicted wounds appeared at the same site. Approximately 1.5 months later, a radial and medianoulnar nerve block was performed by using bupivacaine (2 mg/kg) and medetomidine (0.5 g/kg). In addition, the dosing interval of ketamine was increased to q12h, and the dose of gabapentin was increased 7.5-fold. A higher energy and wavelength of LLLT (1040 mW, 830 nm, 2 J/cm2) was applied once to the injured region and fracture site, then the original LLLT protocol was applied once daily. After 2.5 months, the wounds healed completely and no further mutilation took place. Once deemed ready for release, the falcon was returned to the wild after 181 days in captivity. This is the first reported application of successful multimodal analgesia in a raptor with uncontrolled neuropathic pain.
30133199|The purpose of this study was to obtain preliminary information on intraindividual variations of biochemical parameters in racing pigeons (Columba livia). Blood was sampled from the basilic vein at 3- to 4-day intervals on 15 occasions in 8 male and 8 female 1- to 3-year-old, healthy racing pigeons. Six clinical chemistry parameters were investigated, including aspartate aminotransferase (AST), creatine kinase (CK), glucose (GLU), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), total protein (TP), and uric acid. For each parameter, mean, median, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and coefficient of variation were evaluated for the whole group, as well as for each individual separately. A high degree of individuality, measured by the index of individuality (IoI), for certain clinical chemistry analytes was demonstrated even within a small, well-defined group. Only TP (IoI = 0.5) met the criteria for a very high degree of individuality, which is defined as IoI  0.6. All other analytes had an IoI between 0.7 (AST and CK) and 0.9 (GLU and LDH), indicating a high to medium degree of individuality. Reference values based on the individual patient may help to improve diagnostic interpretation of clinical chemistry values through a better understanding of biological variation in the healthy individual. These data may help overcome the lack of established reference values in rarer species.
27753685|The luteinizing hormonereleasing hormone agonist leuprolide acetate is used commonly to manage reproductive problems in pet birds. To determine the effect of leuprolide acetate on plasma and fecal hormone levels in a psittacine species, a single 800 g/kg dose of the 30-day depot form of leuprolide acetate was administered IM in 11 healthy, nonbreeding adult Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis), and plasma and fecal hormone levels were measured before and after leuprolide administration. At pooled baseline to 21 days postleuprolide acetate administration, sample collection day was significantly associated with plasma 17-estradiol and androstenedione levels and fecal 17-estradiol levels (evaluated in females only). Both plasma androstenedione and plasma 17-estradiol levels decreased significantly from baseline to a nadir at 7 days postleuprolide acetate administration but did not differ significantly 14 days later from that nadir or from pooled baseline samples, suggesting that the effect of leuprolide on hormoe levels remained about 2 weeks. Fecal 17-estradiol levels increased significantly from the nadir at 7 days postleuprolide to 21 days postleuprolide administration, with trends of the levels at 21 days postleuprolide being higher than the pooled baseline level and of decreasing levels from pooled baseline to 7 days postleuprolide administration. Plasma luteinizing hormone and fecal testosterone levels did not change significant from baseline levels after leuprolide administration over the 2-day period. No significant correlations were found between plasma hormone and fecal hormone levels. These results suggest that measurement of plasma androstenedione, plasma 17-estradiol, and fecal 17-estradiol levels might be useful in assessing the effects of 30-day depot leuprolide acetate in Hispaniolan Amazon parrots.
41682466|A Mississippi kite (Ictinia mississippiensis) was presented to the Wildlife Hospital of Louisiana, School of Veterinary Medicine, Louisiana State University, for an inability to fly and was subsequently diagnosed with a minimally displaced, closed, simple, short oblique, diaphyseal fracture of the distal third of the right ulna. A figure-8 bandage was initially applied to the wing to stabilize the fracture. Over a 5-week period, the kite developed progressive reduction in wing extension, and serial radiographs revealed a bridging callus at the ulnar fracture site, as well as development of a radioulnar synostosis. To restore wing function and extension, surgical excision of the bony union between the radius and the ulna was performed, after which a polypropylene mesh implant was interposed between the 2 bones. Within 2 weeks after the surgical procedure, the kite had recovered normal wing extension and was able to fly without noticeable impairment. The bird was released 2 weeks after surgery. This case illustrates a common complication of external coaptation used as sole means of managing fractures of the avian ulna, radius, or both, which results from lack of interosseous soft tissue in the antebrachial area. On the basis of the successful outcome in this case, surgical excision of the interdiaphyseal callus and interposition of a polypropylene mesh could be a viable option for management of posttraumatic radioulnar synostosis in birds of prey.
27670708|Feather destructive behavior is an ever-increasing problem in captive birds of prey and any associated self-mutilation can be challenging to manage. This clinical report describes a noninvasive, nonpainful, temporary beak modification technique used to prevent self-mutilation in 3 Harris' hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus), when other methods and husbandry modifications had failed. The technique was successful in all 3 birds, and no adverse effects were observed. Further investigations are required to further evaluate if this beak modification technique causes any psychologic or physical stress to the avian patient.
30135623|Pulmonary carcinoma was diagnosed in a 14-year-old male Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) presented for sudden onset of ataxia of the pelvic limbs lasting several hours. On physical examination, the cockatoo had paraparesis of both legs and a reduction in pectoral muscle mass. The bird responded to initial supportive therapy; however, its clinical condition deteriorated over a 3-week period. Histopathologic examination revealed pulmonary carcinoma with intrapulmonary metastases as well as metastases to the vertebral column and right humerus.
41826561|Black cockatoos in southwest Western Australia face population declines as a result of habitat loss and fragmentation, poaching, competition with other species, vehicle strikes, and shootings. In this study, hematologic and plasma biochemical reference values were determined for 3 endemic Western Australian black cockatoo species: Carnaby's cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus latirostris) (n = 34), Baudin's cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus baudinii) (n = 22), and forest red-tailed black cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus banksii naso) (n = 22). Significant sex-related differences were detected in Carnaby's cockatoos, and differences were also found among the 3 species. The forest red-tailed black cockatoos showed a markedly greater eosinophil count than did the 2 white-tailed species. Blood values from samples obtained by different collection methods differed significantly for Carnaby's cockatoos, which indicates that anesthesia may affect analyte values and that collection methods should remain consistent. The results of this study will be useful for clinically evaluating wild black cockatoos that are undergoing rehabilitation for release and will provide baseline data for future investigations of free-living black cockatoo health.
30136902|The clinical and pathologic findings of 3 houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii) with tarsometatarsal deformities are presented. These birds were hatched and reared at the National Avian Research Center in the United Arab Emirates as part of its captive breeding program. All 3 birds had short tarsometatarsal bones as a result of chondrodystrophy. Two of these birds developed varus deformities and fused tarsometatarsal trochleae that resulted in swollen intertarsal joints, luxated gastrocnemius tendons, and dislocated phalanges. One bird was euthanized, and the other 2 were excluded from the captive breeding program.
41318123|Because of the size, speed, and powerful kicking ability of adult ostriches (Struthio camelus), chemical immobilization and general anesthesia are commonly used in these animals to provide veterinary care. To determine the serum biochemical values in ostriches anesthetized with xylazine and ketamine and isoflurane, 7 healthy adult ostriches (weighing 100 to 130 kg) were fasted for 12 hours. Each bird received an intramuscular injection of xylazine (4 mg/kg), followed 20 minutes later by an intravenous injection of ketamine (8 mg/kg), and were then intubated and maintained under anesthesia with isoflurane gas. Jugular blood samples were collected from each bird immediately before, and 20 minutes after, administration of xylazine; 10 and 20 minutes after the administration of ketamine; 10, 30, and 50 minutes after the delivery of isoflurane; and 20 and 50 minutes after discontinuing isoflurane. Concentrations of potassium and glucose increased significantly after the administration of ketamine, and that increase was maintained until the end of the study period. During recovery, levels of creatinine and amylase increased significantly. We conclude that administration of xylazine and ketamine and isoflurane anesthesia may affect the concentration of some serum biochemical values. These results should be taken into account when blood samples are evaluated in chemically immobilized or anesthetized ostriches.
27670688|In this study, we evaluated the effects of a transcutaneously administered gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog (lecirelin) on the reproductive activity of the canary (Serinus canaria). Two groups of 20 pairs of canaries were treated with increasing concentrations of lecirelin delivered in a cream vehicle; one group was exposed to a natural photoperiod, and the other group received additional photostimulation. Two groups of 10 pairs of canaries served as controls; one group was exposed to an artificially lengthened photoperiod, and the other group was maintained under a natural photoperiod and treated with a nonmedicated cream vehicle. In all canaries treated with lecirelin, the onset of reproductive activity occurred significantly earlier than in either control group.
40236596|A juvenile ostrich (Struthio camelus) was castrated in 2 procedures (right and left hemicastrations) at 3 and 4 months of age. The bird had 3 episodes of depression, inappetence, and head-shaking with apparent dysphagia of 1-3 days duration during the 4 months after the first surgical procedure. It was found dead at 7.5 months of age with no clinical signs in the days immediately preceding the death. At necropsy, the intestine was found entrapped in the right pulmonary ostium. Death likely resulted from compression of the air sacs and heart by the dilated bowel. Care should be taken to avoid disrupting the air sac wall integrity between the thoracic and abdominal regions of the coelom during the castration of juvenile ostriches.
27823457|"Young bird sickness" is a term used by racing pigeon fanciers to describe a condition that has occurred regularly in recent years and affects pigeons (Columba livia domestica) in their first year of life. It is characterized by slow crop emptying, regurgitation, diarrhea, weight loss, poor performance, and occasionally death. Little scientific information is known about this syndrome to differentiate it from other diseases that occur in young pigeons. In this study, 1 bird from each of 9 lofts where "young bird sickness" was reported was euthanatized for cytologic and postmortem examination. Lesions of the lymphoreticular system, alimentary tract, and respiratory system were the most common findings. Lesions of the lymphoreticular system were present in all birds examined, and 3 birds had histopathologic findings consistent with circovirus infection. Combinations of protozoal, fungal, and mixed bacterial infections were associated with ingluvitis in 7 birds and enteritis in 6 birds. Pneumonitis was found in 5 birds that tested positive for Chlamydophila by polymerase chain reaction. Although "young bird sickness" appears to be a multifactorial condition, a pattern of lesions that involved the lymphoreticular, gastrointestinal, and respiratory systems was evident, whereas diseases of other organ systems were uncommon. These findings suggest that "young bird sickness" may have a common etiology, and circovirus infection is proposed as a possible initiating cause of this syndrome in young racing pigeons in Northern Ireland.
41682467|Multicentric T-cell lymphomas were diagnosed in two birds from separate zoological collections: one in a 27-year-old female Humboldt penguin (Spheniscus humboldti) and the second in an adult pink-backed pelican (Pelecanus rufescens). The main clinical sign in the penguin was dysphagia caused by lymphoma formation in the esophagus. Besides the esophageal lymphoma, neoplastic lymphoid cells were observed in the adrenal glands, liver, kidneys, lung, proventriculus, and gizzard. The pelican was found dead without a clinical history. Neoplastic lymphoid cells were observed in the kidneys, liver, pancreas, spleen, ventriculus, and small intestine. Neoplastic cells of the penguin as well as of the pelican were immunoreactive to CD3 antigen, suggesting the lymphomas were of T-cell origin. In both cases, test results were negative for Marek's disease virus, avian leukosis virus, and reticuloendotheliosis virus. In the pelican, a skin melanoma was diagnosed on the left throat pouch in addition to the multicentric T-cell lymphoma.
40236481|An umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba) of unknown age was examined because of a 6-month history of gradually worsening ataxia and intention tremors. Results of diagnostic tests were unremarkable, and the bird was euthanized after no improvement with empirical therapy. At necropsy, a large, poorly-defined mass was found in the cerebellum. The mass was identified as medulloblastoma, a type of primitive neuroectodermal tumor.
30134185|"Megabacteriosis" is a condition affecting many psittacine and nonpsittacine birds for which an effective, reliable therapy and means of prevention have not been developed. Megabacteriosis has been associated with a chronic wasting condition in the budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) termed "going light," but the organism also has been detected in clinically healthy, thriving birds. In this study, removing eggs from the nests of megabacteria-positive adult budgerigars and hand-raising hatchlings under isolation conditions prevented transmission of megabacteria in all offspring. Staining fecal smears and histologic tissues with Calcofluor White-M2R also was shown to be a reliable means of demonstrating megabacteria. Hand-raising budgerigar hatchlings, and those of other avian species in which megabacteriosis is considered to be of concern, is a potentially valuable method of producing offspring that are free of this organism.
41497488|An adult channel-billed toucan (Ramphastos vitellinus), imported from Surinam, South America, 18 months earlier, was found dead in its cage. At necropsy, the hock joints were swollen bilaterally and had a reduced range of motion. Small curled worms were present in subcutaneous tissue around the joints, with edema and fibrin formation. These worms were classified as the filarioid nematode, Pelecitus species. Blood-borne microfilariae were seen in cytologie impression smears of the lung and the leg lesions.
27823448|An immature female peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus) was presented with a history of reduced appetite, gradual weight loss, and passing metallic-green urates. Survey radiographs revealed a slightly enlarged liver. Plasma biochemical analysis showed moderate to severe increases in concentrations of creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase, and hematologic analysis showed mild leukocytosis with severe lymphocytosis and mild monocytosis. The erythrocytes showed moderate hypochromasia with mild to moderate poikilocytosis and anisocytosis. Intracytoplasmic parasitic forms were observed in the erythrocytes, which were subsequently identified as Babesia shortii. It was estimated that the parasite was present in approximately 5.1% of the erythrocytes examined. The primary treatment consisted of the administration of imidocarb dipropionate administered at 5 mg/kq IM given once and repeated 1 week later. Supportive therapy was also provided. The falcon was discharged at the request of the owner 10 days after admission. One month after discharge, the falcon was presented for a general examination. At this stage, results of hematologic and plasma biochemical analysis values were all within reference ranges and no trace of parasitic forms could be found in the blood films examined.
30134446|Iron storage disease was diagnosed by liver biopsy in a chronically sick, channel-billed toucan (Ramphastos vitellinus). Treatment with deferoxamine (100 mg/kg q24h, SC), a chelating agent, continued daily for 4 months (100 mg/kg, SC) until the iron content of the liver normalized. During the treatment period, the bird became more active and gained weight. Liver specimens were taken monthly for quantitative measurement of the iron content by chemical and morphometric methods (quantitative image analysis) and results were compared. Analyses revealed that the iron concentration diminished over the 4-month period to a concentration considered normal in poultry. Administration of deferoxamine may be effective in the treatment of iron storage disease in toucans. Image analysis may be a more sensitive technique than chemical analysis for measurement of iron liver content.
30134475|The purpose of this study was to examine the pharmacokinetic disposition of itraconazole in Columba livia after administration of two formulations for 1 or 14 days. In two treatment groups we used the protocol most often used in clinical practice: 5 mg/kg itraconazole given as granules from commercially obtained capsules gavaged with orange juice (groups 1 and 3). The other treatment groups received the drug dissolved in 0.1 N HCl, diluted with orange juice, and gavaged with food (groups 2 and 4). Group 4 had higher tissue concentrations than all other groups of the biologically active metabolite, hydroxyitraconazole, but not the parent drug. Concentrations of hydroxyitraconazole were higher than concentrations of the parent drug in all tissues examined. Concentrations of the parent drug and its active metabolite in tissues, but not plasma, were equal to or exceeded minimum inhibiting concentrations for Aspergillus spp. isolated from humans and, presumably, for birds. This suggests that therapeutic concentrations of itraconazole may be achieved in tissues, including the central nervous system, when administered with food at the dosage given group 4 (5 mg/kg q24h, dissolved in 0.1 N HCl). These factors may help determine the clinical efficacy of itraconazole in the treatment of aspergillosis.
30135256|After blood is removed from an animal, the biochemical parameters begin to change immediately. To ensure that results of laboratory tests accurately reflect the true physiologic or pathologic state of an individual, care must be taken to minimize such artifactual changes. It is commonly thought that delayed centrifugation of avian blood may affect analyte values; however, there have been few studies documenting changes. Likewise, the occurrence of changes in blood analyte values during preparation of a standard serum sample has not been investigated formally. This study was conducted to document the differences between analyte values in plasma and serum processed using common standardized protocols. Paired plasma and serum samples were collected from chickens. Plasma samples were kept on ice and centrifuged immediately, and serum samples were allowed to clot at room temperature for 90 minutes and then were centrifuged. The paired plasma and serum samples were simultaneously analyzed for standard biochemical analytes. Significant differences between plasma and serum values were noted for 10 out of the 17 analytes determined. Briefly, serum values for albumin, albumin-globulin ratio, and potassium were much lower than corresponding values for plasma, and the serum chloride concentration was slightly lower than the plasma chloride value. The serum globulin mean concentration was almost 3 times the value for plasma, and serum values for creatine phosphokinase, calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus were higher than their plasma counterparts.
30134503|Evaluation of the nervous system of birds parallels that of mammals with modifications specific to avian anatomy, behavior, and physiology. An understanding of basic avian neuroanatomy is necessary to evaluate abnormal function of the nervous system. A complete neurologic examination helps to localize the anatomic distribution and severity of the disease process. Observation of mentation, posture, and gait localizes the disease process to a specific region of the body. Cranial nerve examination helps to determine if specific regions of the brain are damaged. Eliciting postural reactions aids in detecting deficits in sensory pathways, motor pathways, and brain integration centers. Testing spinal reflexes helps to evaluate the integrity of reflex arcs and any influence from the upper motor neurons on the reflex arcs. Clinical pathology, histopathology, diagnostic imaging, and electrophysiologic techniques are tools to confirm and clarify nervous system disease. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis may confirm pathologic processes, determine the general nature of the pathologic process, or reveal a specific cause of disease. Myelography is used to identify, characterize, and localize spinal cord lesions. Nuclear imaging or scintigraphy is a noninvasive method used to evaluate the effects of lesions in osseous structures associated with the central nervous system. Computed tomography creates cross-sectional images that highlight soft tissue and bone, whereas magnetic resonance imaging generates an image that details fluid and soft tissue structures. Electrophysiologic techniques, such as electromyography and nerve conduction studies, accompanied by muscle biopsy, evaluate the peripheral motor unit, consisting of muscle, nerve, and the neuromuscular junction.
40236583|A 35-year-old yellow-naped Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala auropalliata) was presented for gradually increasing inappetence, ataxia, weakness, and lethargy. Radiographic and ultrasonographic findings were strongly suggestive of atherosclerosis. Isoxsuprine, a peripheral vasodilator demonstrated to be of benefit in humans with intermittent limb pain, weakness, and lameness secondary to occlusive vascular disease, was selected for treatment. The bird's clinical signs resolved during treatment but recurred after varying periods of time when the medication was stopped intermittently. Nearly 3 years after the initial examination, the parrot was doing well on isoxsuprine therapy, with normal prehension of food with its feet and no recurrence of clinical signs.
30134443|The efficacy of a drug regimen depends on the concentration of a drug at the site of needed activity and the duration of time a given concentration is maintained. The pharmacokinetic disposition of a drug depends on the anatomy and physiology of the patient as well as specific properties of the drug itself. Many drugs or drug metabolites are excreted by the kidneys of mammals. Although these compounds are presumed to be excreted by the kidneys of birds as well, few investigations have attempted to confirm this. In addition to understanding the morphology and physiology of avian and mammalian kidneys, the clinician must understand the physicochemical properties of renally excreted drugs to determine the validity of extrapolating drug dosages between the two classes of animals. The purpose of this report is to review plasma and tissue pharmacokinetic studies of drugs currently used in birds. These studies indicate that laboratory and clinical investigations are needed to define the mechanisms and rates of drug elimination in the many avian species veterinarians may treat. Consistent with the diverse anatomic and physiologic characteristics, plasma and tissue concentrations and elimination rates differ between different species of birds. We speculate that drug pharmacokinetics are closely correlated to physiologic differences between species of birds. These differences may represent adaptations to environmental niches. Further studies are needed to confirm this.
30135211|A scarlet macaw (Ara macao) was presented with clinical signs of polyuria, polydipsia, weight loss, and decreased appetite. Diagnosis of a possible adrenal tumor was made based on radiographic findings, clinical signs, and results of blood tests. The macaw was euthanatized, and at necropsy a 3-cm mass was found cranial to the right kidney. Histologic examination of the mass revealed cells with pleiomorphic nuclei and eosinophilic cytoplasm arranged in clusters and tubule-like structures, consistent with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma derived from cortical cells. Small nodules filled with a mucoid material were found in the right lung, and a yellow-green nodule was present in the left kidney. Fungal cultures of samples from these nodules were positive for Aspergillis fumigatus. The plasma corticosterone concentration in this bird, measured from a saved plasma sample, was high compared with that of five scarlet macaws that were clinically healthy.
41496983|A 7-month-old, male eclectus parrot (Eclectus roratus roratus) was presented with a slow-growing mass over the chest and localized self-trauma to the area. Repeated sternal trauma secondary to an improper wing trim was observed in this case before development of the lesion. Surgical excision of the mass was performed for diagnostic and treatment purposes. On histopathologic examination, the mass was characterized by well-differentiated trabecular bone surrounded by a thin layer of periosteum. These findings were consistent with, but not exclusive to, a diagnosis of osteoma. This benign bone lesion is rare in human and veterinary medicine, with even fewer reports of this condition in avian patients. Trauma to the sternum from falling because of wing clipping was the most likely inciting cause in this parrot.
30135262|A 5-year-old intact male silky bantam chicken was presented for chronic epidermal cysts within the comb. Results of diagnostic tests and histopathologic examination of biopsy specimens demonstrated epidermal cysts associated with Aspergillus fumigatus and Alternaria species. Physical removal of the cysts and treatment with systemic itraconazole and topical miconazole resolved the lesions.
40793252|To determine whether a proportional relationship exists between hemoglobin (Hgb) concentration and pack cell volume (PCV) in avian blood samples, Hgb concentration measured by a point-of-care portable hemoglobinometer and corresponding PCV were determined in blood samples collected from 128 birds comprising 13 avian orders. For all birds evaluated and pooled across orders, a significant and consistent relationship was found between Hgb concentration and PCV, expressed as Hgb = 0.304  PCV + 0.461. To determine whether the relationship of PCV and Hgb differs, 9 avian orders with n > 8 samples per order were analyzed by linear regression. Individual slopes for the 9 orders did not differ significantly (P = .44), indicating that a single slope can be used to model the avian Hgb to PCV relationship for these taxonomie orders. A single intercept can also be used, with the exception of order Phoenicopteriformes, which was the only intercept that was significantly different from 0 (P = .01). These results indicate that a simplified relationship of Hgb (g/dL) = 0.30  PCV provides a reasonable estimate of Hgb concentration from the PCV of birds from the orders Anseriformes, Columbiformes, Falconiformes, Galliformes, Passeriformes, Psittaciformes, Sphenisciformes, and Strigiformes, but a separate relationship of Hgb = 0.217  PCV + 6.69 might be warranted for the order Phoenicopteriformes.
40236517|Myelography was evaluated in 12 domestic pigeons (Columba livia) by injecting an iodinated contrast medium (iohexol) at the atlanto-occipital space into the cerebellomedullary cistern. Each pigeon was monitored after the myelography procedure for seizures, hyperthermia, and prolonged recovery from anesthesia; postmyelographic complications were not observed. Myelograms obtained are briefly described. The quality of the myelograms is considered acceptable in this species, and myelography was found to be cost effective with potential application to avian practice.
40236605|Monitoring the life status of a developing embryo is very useful, especially during last days of incubation when hatching could potentially be assisted if deemed necessary. A commercially available digital egg monitor (Buddy, Vetronic Services, Devon, UK) uses noninvasive methodology to monitor the heart rate of an embryo by measuring the amount of infrared light absorbed by embryonic blood. Thirty specific pathogen-free (SPF) chicken eggs (29 fertile) were incubated at 37.8  0.1C and the heart rate of each embryo was measured. Heart rates were first detectable in 13 eggs at day 6 of incubation. At day 7, an average heart rate of 170  20 beats/min was detected in all 29 fertile eggs, which is comparable to reported values. Ten additional SPF chicken eggs were evaluated at day 13 of incubation to test the effects of ambient temperature changes on embryonic heart rate. Embryonic heart rates dropped from 262 to 106 beats/min in eggs kept at room temperature (25C) for 90 minutes and to <60 beats/min after 70 minutes at 5C. Heart rates increased to 215 beats/min after 75 minutes at the original incubator temperature. Thirty (26 fertile) incubated turkey eggs were also evaluated with the digital egg monitor. Heart rates in 10 embryos were first detected at day 9 of incubation. At day 12, embryos had an average heart rate of 234  10 beats/min. The digital egg monitor was also used to measure the heart rate of peregrine falcon ( Falco peregrinus) and Northern goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) embryos.
41318140|An isolate of genotype 2 avian bornavirus (ABV) was recovered from a cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) that was euthanatized for an unrelated lesion and showing no clinical evidence of proventricular dilatation disease (PDD). On histopathologic examination, mild inflammatory lesions were present in the heart and brain, but gastrointestinal lesions characteristic of classic PDD were not observed. To investigate if this ABV2 isolate had reduced virulence, the virus was propagated in duck embryo fibroblasts and inoculated into 2 adult cockatiels by the oral and intramuscular routes. One bird developed clinical signs on day 33 and was euthanatized on day 36. The second challenged bird developed clinical signs on day 41 and was euthanatized on day 45. At necropsy, the proventriculus of both birds was slightly enlarged. Histopathologic examination showed lesions typical of PDD in the brain, spinal cord, heart, adrenal gland, and intestine. A control, uninoculated cockatiel was apparently healthy when euthanatized on day 50. These results show that ABV2 is now the second ABV genotype to be formally shown to cause PDD.
27670703|Thirty-eight captive psittacine birds housed in a bird park in Foz do Iguau, Parana, Brazil, died within a 15-month period as a result of infection with Sarcocystis falcatula. Although fatalities affected 16 species of psittacine birds, mortality was highest in Old World species, which were most susceptible to the pulmonary form of sarcocystosis. Along with the pathologic findings of this disease outbreak, a review of the pathophysiology of sarcosporidiosis is presented.
27823416|During the winters of 200001 and 200102, 400 trumpeter (Cygnus buccinator; n = 365) and tundra (Cygnus columbianus columbianus; n = 35) swans died in northwest Washington State. The carcasses were collected and frozen for necropsy, completed in May 2001 (n = 172) and May 2002 (n = 228). Although most swans died of lead poisoning, 64 (16%) swans had gross pathologic lesions consistent with aspergillosis (trumpeter swan, n = 62; tundra swan, n = 2). Mild fungal infections consisted of small, nonobstructive lesions in the air sacs, trachea, or lungs, with lesions isolated to 1 area. Severe fungal infections consisted of large, extensive infiltrating lesions in the respiratory tract, with 68% of lesions in more than 1 area (lungs, air sacs, or trachea) and many with complete fibrinous casts within air sacs or trachea. Male swans were twice as likely as females to have fungal lesions, although there was no difference in the ratio of males and females with mild or severe infections. Juvenile swans (<1 year of age) were twice as likely as adults and subadults to have fungal lesions and were also more likely to develop severe versus mild aspergillosis infections (n = 19, n = 1, respectively). Although the number of swans with concurrent lead poisoning and aspergillosis was nearly 30% higher than that of swans with aspergillosis only, when compared with the total number of swans submitted for necropsy, swans with lead poisoning were 75% less likely to have fungal lesions than non-leadpoisoned swans, possibly because of rapid death from lead poisoning.
40793205|To determine the efficacy of 21-day therapy with azithromycin and doxycycline in the treatment of experimental infection with Chlamydophila C psittaci in cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus), 30 birds randomly assigned to 3 treatment groups and 1 control group were inoculated with psittaci by combined intranasal and ocular routes. Morbidity, mortality, and results of polymerase chain reaction testing confirmed that infection was successful. Birds in group 1 (n = 8) received azithromycin at 40 mg/kg PO q48h for 21 days; in group 2 (n = 8), doxycycline at 35 mg/kg PO q24h for 21 days; in group 3 (n = 8), doxycycline at 35 mg/kg PO q24h for 45 days; and, in group 4 (controls; n = 6), no treatment. Six birds died either before or within 2 days of initiating treatment: 4 in the 3 treatment groups and 2 in the control group. Clinical signs resolved and mortality ceased 2-6 days after treatment was initiated in all treatment groups, whereas birds in the control group exhibited clinical signs for the duration of the study. Plasma doxycycline concentrations were measured during the treatment period and exceeded 1 g/mL at all time points. The absence of clinical signs and mortality in the treatment groups, even after inducing an immunocompromised state with dexamethasone (3 mg/kg IM q24h for 5 days), starting on day 70 postinoculation, suggested that treatment resulted in elimination of the pathogen. After euthanasia of the remaining 24 birds, 23 of the carcasses were submitted for necropsy. Spleen and liver samples from the birds in all treatment and control groups were polymerase chain reaction negative for C psittaci nucleic acid, and organisms were not detected by Gimnez stain. No gross or histologie differences were observed in the livers and spleens of treated and untreated infected birds. Lesions consistent with avian chlamydiosis (hystiocytosis) were seen in all birds and were considered residual. In this study, a 21-day course of either doxycycline or azithromycin was effective in eliminating C psittaci infection in experimentally inoculated cockatiels. Additional studies are necessary to evaluate the efficacy of these treatments in naturally infected cockatiels as well as other species of birds.
30130685|The third eyelid, or membrana nictitans, is well developed in all avian species, and normal function of the third eyelid is necessary for maintaining a healthy ocular surface. Two cranes and a lovebird were presented for evaluation of unilateral third eyelid lacerations that compromised movement of the third eyelid. The lacerations were repaired using microsurgical techniques, with emphasis placed on identifying the pyramidalis tendon and marginal plait, determining their integrity, and ensuring proper mobility of the third eyelid. One bird had a full-thickness laceration of the pyramidalis tendon that required reattachment. All three birds regained normal function of the third eyelid, and the development of secondary corneal disease was prevented. Surgical reconstruction of third eyelid lacerations is strongly recommended because of the integral role played by the third eyelid in maintaining a normal ocular surface.
30134875|Mycotic keratitis is most commonly reported in horses and humans and is rarely reported in birds. We diagnosed mycotic keratitis, localized to the left eye, in an adult blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva). The ophthalmic examination revealed a diffuse yellow-green haze encompassing the entire surface of the left cornea. Diffuse fluorescein uptake occurred in the entire cornea. The right eye appeared normal. Aspergillus fumigatus was isolated on conjunctival culture. The affected eye was enucleated because of the bird's discomfort and the poor prognosis for successful treatment. Histopathologic examination revealed a severe granulomatous keratitis with intracorneal fungal hyphae and corneal perforation. Multinucleated giant cells and fungal hyphae were present within the anterior chamber. Aspergillus fumigatus is an uncommon cause of keratitis in birds but should be considered as a potential cause of refractory ulcers.
27753673|An outbreak of avian paramyxovirus serotype 3 (APMV-3) infection occurred in a private bird collection consisting mainly of Neophema species. Two Bourke's parrots (Neopsephotus bourkii) and one red-crowned parakeet (Cyanoramphus novaezelandiae) were examined after developing torticollis and circling. The 3 birds were euthanatized and submitted for necropsy. Brain and liver samples from the 3 birds were homogenized and inoculated into the allantoic cavity of 10-day-old embryonated specific-pathogen-free chicken eggs. An APMV-3 isolate replicated but did not induce embryonic mortality after up to 5 consecutive passages. Allantoic fluid from the second passage was used in hemagglutination testing performed on chicken erythrocytes, which resulted in a titer of 64 hemagglutinating units. Avian paramyxovirus serotype 3 was identified in the allantoic fluid, and a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction verified the isolate as APMV-3/parakeet. An eventual mortality rate of 70% occurred in the Neophema species, but a group of budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) and parrotlets (Forpus species) kept in the same facility showed no clinical signs during the outbreak.
30133200|A total of 3251 falcons were examined at the Falcon Medical Research Hospital of the Fahad bin Sultan Falcon Center, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, between September 1999 and March 2001. Of this total, 96 falcons (2.9%), including 78 saker (Falco cherrug), 12 peregrine (Falco peregrinus), and 6 lanner (Falco biarmicus) falcons, were admitted for treatment of lead toxicosis. Lead toxicosis was diagnosed by evaluating the anamnesis, clinical signs, radiographic findings, and blood lead concentrations as measured by an electrochemical analysis system that reported blood lead concentrations within several minutes. Thirty-four (35.4%) of the falcons treated had radiographic evidence of lead pellets or fragments in the gastrointestinal tract. In all cases with lead pellets present in the ventriculus, the blood lead concentration was >65 g/dl (0.65 ppm). However, in 62 (64.5%) of the treated falcons, no radiographic evidence was found of lead pellets or fragments in the ventriculus. The blood lead concentrations in these cases ranged from 25.5 to >65 g/dl (0.2550.65 ppm). Calcium disodium ethylenediaminetetracetate (Ca EDTA) was administered (50 mg/kg, undiluted, IM ql2h) for 2-23 consecutive days, depending on the bird's blood lead concentration. The mean reduction in blood lead concentration after treatment was 83.9% (range = 72.6-94.2%, n = 22). Birds treated with Ca EDTA for as many as 23 consecutive days did not demonstrate any deleterious effects.
24623896|Osteoma is an uncommon bone formation documented in avian species and other animals. A blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva) with clinical respiratory symptoms was examined because of a hard mass present on the left nostril. Radiographs suggested a bone tumor, and the mass was surgically excised. Histopathologic examination revealed features of an osteoma. To our knowledge, this is the first description of an osteoma in a blue-fronted Amazon parrot. Osteoma should be considered as a differential diagnosis in birds with respiratory distress and swelling of the nostril.
27823430|Peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT), a noninvasive method for measuring bone characteristics, was used to evaluate bone healing in 3 white leghorn chickens (Gallus domesticus) after radial osteotomy at 22 days of age. The time sequence for callus formation and mineralization over a 45-day period was examined by performing serial cross-sectional scans of the osteotomized radius of each bird daily from day 2 to day 29 and on days 42 and 45 after surgery. Complete data were available for 2 birds. Formation of a new marrow cavity was apparent by 4 weeks after surgery, and union of the bone ends appeared complete by day 42. Bone mineral content (BMC), bone mineral density (BMD), and cross-sectional area (CSA) were measured at the radial osteotomy site, at 3 mm proximal to it, and at the corresponding areas on the ulna. The radial osteotomy site began to mineralize by day 4, and BMC and CSA increased approximately 100% in both birds between days 5 and 10. In bird 2, BMC and CSA continued to increase (55% and 74%, respectively). Peak radial levels of both BMC and CSA were followed by plateaus lasting approximately 7 days, then both levels decreased during callus resorption. The radial BMD increased during these plateaus, then decreased as the callus was remodeled. Between days 29 and 42, the BMD of the radial osteotomy site increased and approached that of the corresponding ulna. The sequences of changes in BMC, CSA, and BMD after day 10 were similar in each bird. These results indicate that pQCT is a useful tool to monitor postosteomy bone healing in chicks.
30134203|Anticoagulant rodenticides inhibit the activation of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, resulting in fatal hemorrhage. Nontarget species are exposed to these rodenticides primarily by direct consumption of baits or secondarily by consumption of poisoned prey. The diagnosis of anticoagulant rodenticide toxicosis is more challenging in birds than in mammals because of the limited availability of laboratory tests to evaluate avian coagulation. In addition, the presenting signs in birds may differ from those commonly seen in mammals. Treatment for acute blood loss and therapy with vitamin K can result in a favorable outcome in birds. This report describes the presenting signs, diagnosis, and successful treatment of a red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) with secondary anticoagulant rodenticide toxicosis.
30133110|A course in avian medicine was developed and taught for 2 years at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Sokoine University of Agriculture, Tanzania. The course consisted of lectures and practical classes covering wild birds (captive and free-living) as well as domestic poultry. The impact and value of the course are assessed in the context of the need to promote avian medicine internationally.
24623515|The objective of this study was to compare the effects of 3 different fluid types for resuscitation after experimentally induced hemorrhagic shock in anesthetized chickens and to evaluate partial pressures of carbon dioxide measured in arterial blood (Paco2), with a transcutaneous monitor (TcPco2), with a gastric intraluminal monitor (GiPco2), and by end tidal measurements (Etco2) under stable conditions and after induced hemorrhagic shock. Hemorrhagic shock was induced in 40 white leghorn chickens by removing 50% of blood volume by phlebotomy under general anesthesia. Birds were divided into 4 groups: untreated (control group) and treated with intravenous hetastarch (haes group), with a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier (hemospan group), or by autotransfusion (blood group). Respiratory rates, heart rates, and systolic arterial blood pressure (SAP) were compared at 8 time points (baseline [T0]; at the loss of 10% [T10%], 20% [T20%], 30% [T30%], 40% [T40%], and 50% [T50%] of blood volume; at the end of resuscitation [RES]; and at the end of anesthesia [END]). Packed cell volume (PCV) and blood hemoglobin content were compared at 6 time points (T0, T50%, RES, and 1, 3, and 7 days after induced hemorrhagic shock). Measurements of Paco2, TcPco2, GiPco2, and Etco2 were evaluated at 2 time points (T0 and T50%), and venous lactic acid concentrations were evaluated at 3 time points (T0, T50%, and END). No significant differences were found in mortality, respiratory rate, heart rate, PCV, or hemoglobin values among the 4 groups. Birds given fluid resuscitation had significantly higher SAPs after fluid administration than did birds in the control group. In all groups, PCV and hemoglobin concentrations began to rise by day 3 after phlebotomy, and baseline values were reached 7 days after blood removal. At T0, TcPco2 did not differ significantly from Paco2, but GiPco2 and Etco2 differed significantly from Paco2. After hemorrhagic shock, GiPco2 and TcPco2 differed significantly from Paco2. The TcPco2 or GiPco2 values did not differ significantly at any time point in birds that survived or died in any of the groups and across all groups. These results showed no difference in mortality in leghorn chickens treated with fluid resuscitation after hemorrhagic shock and that the PCV and hemoglobin concentrations increased by 3 days after acute hemorrhage with or without treatment. The different CO2 measurements document changes in CO2-values consistent with poor perfusion and may prove useful for serial evaluation of responses to shock and shock treatment.
27753686|Use of external skeletal fixatorintramedullary pin tie-in (ESF-IM pin tie-in) fixators is an adjustable and effective method of fracture fixation in birds. The objective of this study was to evaluate the elements of the ESF-IM tie-in configuration used in birds. Ten variations of constructs were applied to a plastic bone model with a standard gap. Variants included non-tied and tie-in configurations, use of a 6- or 10-mm acrylic bar or a thermoplastic connecting bar, variation in the placement of the proximal fixation pin, use of 1.1-mm (0.045-in) or 1.6-mm (0.062-in) fixation pins, and configurations of 2, 3, or 4 fixation pins. The various constructs were loaded in bending, torque, and compression, and response variables were determined from resulting load-displacement curves (stiffness, load at 1-mm displacement). Results showed that, by using the tie-in configuration, increasing the diameter of the acrylic connecting bar, and increasing the diameter or number of fixation pins, each significantly increased the stiffness in all assessments. Placing the fixation pin distally in the proximal bone model segment increased the stiffness in bending, and adding a fixation pin to the distal bone model segment increased the stiffness in torque and bending. These results quantified the relative importance of specific parameters that effect stiffness and safe load of the ESF-IM tie-in construct as applied to a plastic bone fracture model.
40236513|Anesthetic and cardiopulmonary effects of butorphanol administered pre-versus postoperatively were determined and compared in 11 adult Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) anesthetized with sevoflurane and subjected to coelomic endoscopy for gonadal evaluation. Birds were randomly assigned to receive butorphanol tartrate (2 mg/kg IM) either 20 minutes before induction of anesthesia with sevoflurane (B-S group) or immediately after sevoflurane anesthesia (S group). No differences in induction or recovery times were seen between groups. Heart rates of birds in the B-S group were significantly higher at 30 minutes compared with baseline and with heart rates of birds in the S group. Birds in the S group had significantly lower heart rates at both 15 and 25 minutes compared with baseline values. Respiratory rates throughout the study were significantly lower in both groups compared with baseline values. Birds in the B-S group had significantly lower respiratory rates at baseline and after 1 minute compared with birds in the S Group. The SpO and EtCO values did not change significantly over time within either group, and no significant changes were present between groups. Administration of preoperative butorphanol (2 mg/kg IM) as part of a preemptive analgesic regimen appears safe and effective and will not cause clinically significant changes in anesthetic and cardiopulmonary parameters in Hispaniolan Amazon parrots anesthetized with sevoflurane.
24624832|Histologic examination of a testicular biopsy sample may be required to evaluate the reproductive status of male psittacine birds. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the viability of testicular sampling from live birds by assessing the impact on the birds' health, testicular integrity, and sperm quality. Testicular biopsy samples were obtained by endoscopy 4 times during 12 months from 9 cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) and 7 rose-ringed parakeets (Psittacula krameri). Only 2 of 16 birds showed testicular cicatrization or divided testicular tissue after a single endoscopy. Further complications, such as damage to the air sacs or bleeding, predominantly occurred in subsequent endoscopies. In both species, endoscopy and testicular biopsy caused only minor or transient effects on sperm production and sperm quality. These results support that a single testicular biopsy is a viable method for evaluating the reproductive status of male psittacine birds.
30133185|Chlamydiosis is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus); however, little published information is available regarding effective treatment options for this species. This preliminary study was conducted to determine if adequate plasma concentrations of doxycycline, the antibiotic of choice for treating chlamydiosis in pet birds, could be achieved in cockatiels by using different methods of administration. Doxycycline hyclate was administered to 5 groups comprising 3 to 6 birds each by intramuscular injection (100 mg/kg IM every 10 days for 5 injections) or by mixing with drinking water (0.28 or 0.83 mg/ml), seeds (500 mg/kg wet weight), or mash (1000 mg/kg). Three additional groups of birds received unmedicated food and water and served as controls. Plasma doxycycline concentrations were measured periodically during the 45-day trial. Birds given doxycycline by intramuscular injection had variable, localized tissue reactions and a mean trial plasma concentration <1 g/ml, the value considered therapeutic for treating chlamydiosis. Birds that received doxycycline in drinking water and in seeds maintained group mean doxycycline concentrations >1 g/ml. Birds that received doxycycline in mash had high plasma doxycycline concentrations and showed severe clinical illness, suggesting doxycycline toxicosis; drug administration was discontinued on day 3. Therefore, in this study, drinking water and seeds were effective vehicles for doxycycline administration to clinically healthy cockatiels under controlled conditions. However, mash combined with doxycycline resulted in severe toxicosis, whereas doxycycline hyclate by intramuscular injection did not achieve desired therapeutic plasma concentrations. Further studies are needed to examine efficacy and safety of food- and water-based doxycycline regimens in clinically ill birds and those housed under different environmental conditions.
27823414|Chlamydophila psittaci was identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing of choanocloacal combination swabs collected from 9 of 15 fruit doves of different species. These birds were housed in close proximity to other individuals, and all birds were considered exposed to C psittaci infection. Group treatment was initiated by offering doxycycline hyclate in drinking water at 0.5 g/L for 45 days. During the treatment period, 18 fruit doves representing 4 species (including 5 birds that tested positive for C psittaci) were observed daily and weighed and examined weekly. Plasma doxycycline concentrations in these birds were measured at treatment days 3, 8, 14, 21, 35, and 42. Lacrimochoanalcloacal combination swabs were collected for C psittaci PCR testing at 5, 10, and 15 days after treatment ended. No adverse effects of treatment were observed. Mean plasma doxycycline concentration for all samples was 1.56  1.3 g/ml. After treatment, all 18 selected birds tested negative for C psittaci. Also, C psittaci was not detected in 49 additional lacrimochoanalcloacal combination swabs collected from the larger group of exposed birds during a 6-month period after treatment. The results of this study suggest that doxycycline-medicated drinking water may offer a safe, inexpensive, and practical method to treat fruit doves infected with C psittaci.
30136897|Birds of prey are found increasingly in captive situations. When sick, these animals show only very subtle signs of disease, making the detection of disease difficult. For this reason, the analysis of hematologic parameters is a very useful technique for the avian veterinarian. However, birds are most frequently transported to the veterinary clinic for a health check-up. This study investigates the effects of transport-related stress on heterophil and lymphocyte morphology and hematologic parameters of peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) and Harris's hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus). Twelve birds of each species, all adults, mixed males and females, were analyzed. Each group of 12 was comprised of 6 trained (accustomed to being transported) and 6 untrained birds. Samples of blood were taken from all birds in their place of origin and again 1 week later after 1 hour (35 km) of transport. Both samples were taken in similar conditions (eg, time of day, duration after feeding, environmental temperature, sample handling) so that any variation would be caused only by transport-related factors. Both untrained groups showed a significant (P < .05) increase in the heterophil/lymphocyte ratio (H/L). Whereas untrained peregrines showed no other significant change, untrained Harris's hawks had a significant leukopenia, lymphopenia, and eosinopenia. Trained Harris's hawks showed a significant monocytosis, whereas trained peregrines showed no significant change. Transport had no apparent influence on heterophil or lymphocyte morphology. Although the difference between pre- and posttransport was significant in some parameters, all values in the 4 groups remained within the reference ranges for the species. Therefore, we can conclude that 1-hour transport for trained or untrained members of these 2 species to a clinic need not be factor that requires the clinician's consideration when interpreting a hematologic sample. However, the 2 species reacted differently to transport. Further studies on other species are suggested. The H/L ratio is proposed as the most sensitive measure of stress response in the blood picture of raptors, and possible uses are suggested.
30133143|Paralleling the advancement of laboratory diagnostics in avian medicine is the increasing use of in-house diagnostic methods. To the betterment of the practice, today's testing systems have become so user-friendly as to permit the performance of assays by nearly anybody within the veterinary facility. Unfortunately, "easy-to-run" does not equate to "goof-proof." That being the case, a properly formulated laboratory quality control (QC) program will ensure that the test results received by the clinician are both accurate and precise. Among the most common causes of erroneous laboratory results are operator/protocol error, unobserved specimen abnormalities, reagent problems, and instrument failure. Established QC methods exist for all areas of the laboratory, including hematology, serum chemistry, microbiology, and immunodiagnostics. Techniques for the development of such a program within the veterinary clinic are described for each of these areas.
30136900|Active warming of birds under general anesthesia is required to prevent hypothermia and its life-threatening consequences. The ability of a forced-air warming system to provide thermal homeostasis during isoflurane anesthesia of 10 Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) was compared to a circulating-water blanket and an infrared heat emitter. Each bird was anesthetized once weekly for a 60-minute trial of each of 5 methods: no thermal support (control), surgical drape only, towel-covered circulating-water blanket and drape, infrared heat emitter and drape, and forced-air warmer and drape. An esophageal thermometer was used to measure the bird's core body temperature during each trial, and the temperature of the surgical area immediately adjacent to the bird as well as the ambient room temperature were also recorded. Time zero was 5 minutes after intubation. None of the warming methods prevented a significant decrease in core body temperature measured during the 60-minute trial period. A significant decrease in core body temperature was observed within 15 minutes with all warming methods except the forced-air warmer, which prevented a significant decrease in temperature before 30 minutes. Even though the forced-air warmer did not prevent a drop in core body temperature during the last 30 minutes of the trial, the temperature remained within the clinically acceptable range of 38.3-40.6C. A significant increase occurred in the temperature of the surgical area immediately adjacent to each bird from 15 to 60 minutes for all warming methods, but the magnitude of the increase was not different among modalities. The forced-air warming system proved superior to traditional heating methods in restricting heat loss and is an effective modality for the prevention of hypothermia during isoflurane anesthesia of Hispaniolan Amazon parrots in clinical practice or a research setting.
24623893|As with other animal species, comprehensive reference intervals (RI) for psittaciform species are rare and plagued by common issues, including sparse information regarding methods used to analyze specimens, low sample sizes, and improper statistical analyses. The purpose of this study was to examine the use of an indirect sampling method of RI generation from several years of data collected from specimens of multiple psittaciform species submitted to a veterinary diagnostic laboratory. These data were unselected for health status. A previously published method for indirect RI generation was applied to data collected for routine hematologic and biochemical analyses. Seven species groups were examined, and sample size ranged from 346 to 2358. Results showed that RI varied by species and appeared to represent a broader range than expected compared with other RI and traditional clinical expectations for core health assessments, such as total white blood cell count and white blood cell differential results. Some biochemical results reflected more narrow ranges, and a few were consistent with other published ranges. The intervals were likely influenced by changes related to stress and underlying disease. The results of the current study reflect the imprecision of this method related to data obtained from the population served by this laboratory. Overall, this method is not suitable for the production of comprehensive RI, although it may provide rough estimates for some limited analyses until traditional RI can be generated.
41496978|Autologous bone marrow, alone or as a composite marrow graft, has received much attention in various species. To assess the potential osteogenicity of autologous, extramedullary bone marrow implants in an avian model, 24 adult pigeons (Columba livia) were given intramuscular implantations of autologous marrow aspirated from the medial tibiotarsus. Birds were euthanatized at 1, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks after surgery to evaluate whether ectopic bone had formed at the implant sites. Primary evaluations by in situ radiography and postmortem histologie examinations showed no evidence of bone formation. Further evaluation with histologic scores and histomorphometry revealed a significantly increased rate of angiogenesis at the implant sites by the sixth and tenth week postimplantation (P < .05). No significant differences between the treatment and control sites were present at any other endpoints. Results of this study show that, although autologous bone marrow lacks heterotopic osteogenic potentials in this avian model, it could still function as a useful adjunct to routine bone grafting techniques because of its unique capabilities to promote early angiogenesis.
30135198|Severe ascaridosis was diagnosed in an adult green-winged macaw (Ara chloroptera), in a blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva), and in two juvenile white (umbrella) cockatoos (Cacatua alba) from one aviary. Three of these psittacine birds were submitted for necropsy. Lesions in individual birds variably included intestinal obstruction with ascarids, hepatic nematodiasis, and adult nematodes in the pancreatic and bile ducts. In two birds, ascarid eggs were detected antemortem by direct flotation of fecal samples with sodium nitrate solution. However, in one bird, repeated evaluation of fecal samples by direct smears and flotation failed to reveal a heavy ascarid infection. In comparison with nine species of Ascaridia, the specimens in these cases matched no currently described species.
30135626|A 13-year-old male golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pictus) was examined for a hemorrhagic mass on the leading edge of the right propatagial area of 1 day's duration. Physical examination revealed a scabbed mass that bled easily when manipulated. Hemorrhage and cellulitis were observed from 2 incisional biopsies. The mass was removed under general anesthesia, and histopathology demonstrated a hemangiosarcoma. Assays on white blood cells for avian leukosis/sarcoma viruses, Marek disease viral serotypes 1, 2, and 3, and reticuloendotheliosis virus were negative. The bird recovered uneventfully, but the tumor recurred within 10 days after removal. Upon clinical deterioration 3 months later, the bird was euthanized.
30135231|A fledgling great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) that had impaired flight was captured for examination. Firm swellings were palpated along the long bones of both legs and wings. Radiographs demonstrated severe proliferation of periosseous tissues of both tibiotarsi, accompanied by similar but more moderate lesions involving the diaphyses of the femur, humerus, radius, and ulna bilaterally. Histologic examination of grossly abnormal tissue surrounding cortical bone revealed a granulomatous reaction to cholesterol crystal deposits. The diagnosis was xanthogranulomatosis. Although xanthomatous lesions involving the skin have been frequently described in avian species, this case represents an example of periosseous xanthomatosis previously unreported in birds.
40236557|Two cases of unilateral micromelia are described in wild juvenile little penguins (Eudyptula minor). The first bird was found at San Remo, Phillip Island, Victoria, Australia. The bird's left flipper was reduced in length, and radiography demonstrated severe shortening and dysplasia of the humerus. The second bird was found having difficulty swimming off the coast near Fremantle, Western Australia. Clinical examination revealed that the bird was underweight (0.55 kg) but otherwise in good condition with subadult plumage and had probably only recently fledged from nearby Garden or Penguin Islands. The left wing was markedly reduced in size and had limited range of elbow and carpal joint movement but sensation and motor control were normal. Radiography demonstrated a severe reduction in size and distortion of the humerus and shortening and fusion of the ulna, radius, metacarpals, and phalanges. The furcula was asymmetrical because the left clavicle was slightly thinner and more radiolucent than the right and was also slightly deviated to the right side. Necropsy results of histopathologic examination revealed no other significant external abnormalities other than a mild focal heterophilic ulcerative proventriculitis from a mild burden of Contracaecum eudyptulae. Concentrations of heavy metals in kidney, liver, and brain were: cadmium, <6 mg/kg; mercury, <0.05 mg/kg; lead, <2 mg/kg; and selenium, 1.30 mg/kg. Possible causes of unilateral micromelia in these penguins are discussed.
40984801|Blood filters that prevent clots, microaggregates, and other debris from being passed from the donor blood into the recipient are an essential component of blood transfusions in mammalian species but have not been consistently recommended in avian transfusions. To evaluate the hemolytic effect of an 18-m filter in chickens, 9 mL of blood was collected from each of 30 chickens (Gallus gallus) into a syringe containing 1 mL of citrate phosphate dextrose adenine (CPDA-1) to obtain a 1: 9 dilution of CPDA-1 to blood. One half of each sample was then run through a pediatrie blood filter before separating the plasma. The level of hemolysis in both filtered and unfiltered portions was determined by measuring the concentration of free hemoglobin in the plasma. All samples had low hemoglobin concentrations (less than 30 mg/dL) with no significant difference between the unfiltered and filtered portions. Based on these results, an 18-m blood filter can be used safely for blood transfusions in domestic chickens as it does not cause significant hemolysis.
30134488|Results obtained by elementary body agglutination (EBA), latex agglutination (LA), and direct complement fixation (DCF) for chlamydiosis on serial serum or plasma samples from birds were analyzed retrospectively. The relationship between significant (fourfold) antibody activity titer changes (increase or decrease) by one or more of the methods used or stable (twofold change) titers and clinical illness or normal health status of birds were determined by a 2 x 2 contingency table. Only 61.4% of birds that were apparently infected, as evidenced by significant titer changes, were clinically ill; but 94.4% of birds that had no significant titer change were clinically normal. Clinically normal birds had significant titer changes at the rate of 36.6%; only 5.3% of the clinically ill birds did not have significant titer changes. The agreement between clinical health status and significant titer changes or lack thereof was 66.4%. Twenty-six of 37 (70.3%) Amazon parrots (Amazona spp.) with significant titer changes were clinically ill, whereas other species of birds were divided among various relationship categories. Significance of EBA results on first serum or plasma samples was based on the relationship described above. A 2 x 2 contingency table was constructed to show relationships between a positive (10) or negative (<10) EBA titer and, as a "standard," whether or not a chlamydial infection occurred as indicated by a significant titer change or lack thereof. In this evaluation, the sensitivity of EBA (titer 10 in the first sample) was 94.1% for identifying birds that had a significant titer change by one or more of the three serologic methods used. However, the specificity of EBA (titer <10) was only 61.1% for identifying birds that did not have significant titer changes. The accuracy of EBA in indicating titer change or lack thereof and EBA titer was 89.1%. Interpretations of EBA, LA, and DCF titers are given along with suggestions for confirming the chlamydial infection status of birds with various titers. Additional confirmatory testing methods for confirming or ruling out a chlamydial infection are suggested.
27753689|A 7-day-old gentoo penguin (Pygoscelis papua) was found dead and postmortem examination revealed impaction of the ventriculus with feathers. A review of mortality in gentoo penguin chicks from 1997 to 2007 at that institution revealed another case of feather impaction of the ventriculus in a 4-week-old chick, a sibling of the previous chick. A third case of gastrointestinal impaction occurred in a 24-day-old king penguin (Aptenodytes patagonicus) with omphallitis and enteritis. In this chick, a fibrin mat produced a complete obstruction of the intestine at the level of Meckel's diverticulum.
30134184|Infection by Chlamydophila psittaci (formerly Chlamydia psittaci) is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in companion psittacine birds and is transmissible to humans. Replication of Chlamydophila is inhibited by plasma doxycycline concentrations greater than 1 g/ml, but prolonged treatment periods of 30-45 days are needed to eliminate infection. Medication of birds for this prolonged period is difficult with current treatment methods. In this study, drinking water medicated with doxycycline hyclate at 800 mg/L was provided ad libitum to healthy African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus timneh) and Goffin's cockatoos (Cacatua goffini) for 42 days. Blood samples for doxycycline analysis were collected on treatment days 4, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, and 42. Mean doxycycline concentrations exceeded 1 /ml throughout the 42-day treatment period. In the African grey parrots, the mean doxycycline concentration ( SD) for all plasma samples collected during the study was 1.51  0.68 g/ml and doxycycline concentrations were greater than 1 g/ ml in 73% of the samples. In the Goffin's cockatoos, the overall mean was 2.78  1.00 g/ml and doxycycline concentrations exceeded 1 g/ml in all samples. No adverse effects were noted in the African grey parrots. All of the 8 treated Goffin's cockatoos were physically healthy, but changes in plasma biochemical analyses suggested mild hepatic damage in 3 birds. Results of plasma biochemical analyses in these cockatoos were within reference ranges when retested 7 days after doxycycline treatment ended. The results of this study suggest that doxycycline-medicated water can safely maintain plasma concentrations adequate for treating avian Chlamydophila infections in African grey parrots and Goffin's cockatoos housed under standardized conditions.
27670691|Eclectus parrots (Eclectus roratus) exhibit a form of reversed sexual dichromatism (plumage coloration) not found in other birds. The females are a striking vermilion and blue, whereas the males are shiny green. Here, I summarize the major findings of a 10-year research program conducted on a wild population of eclectus parrots on Cape York Peninsula, Australia, aimed primarily at understanding the ecologic and evolutionary forces behind their unique coloration. Unlike most other parrots, eclectus parrots breed polyandrously (where multiple males mate with 1 female) and polygynandrously (where both sexes have multiple sexual partners). Their mating system appears to be driven by a shortage of nest hollows. Females with good nest sites are rare, and this forces males to share females. The red plumage of females acts as a signal of nest hollow ownership, whereas the green of males allows them to be camouflaged while foraging to feed the females and chicks. Eclectus parrots can also control the sex of their offspring, although the reasons for this are not yet clear.
30134220|Spinal injuries and congenital or developmental spinal deformities have rarely been reported in pet birds, and treatment for these conditions is even less often described. In poultry, spinal and leg deformities have been well documented, but treatment of the individual is not considered, because affected individuals are typically culled. A 10-week-old male African black-footed penguin (Spheniscus demersus) from the penguin exhibit at the Maryland Zoo in Baltimore was evaluated for ataxia, weakness, and motor deficits and was diagnosed with a spinal deformity. Further investigation by using magnetic resonance imaging was conducted, and the penguin subsequently underwent an attempted surgical repair of the malformation. The penguin never regained normal motor control and was found dead 4 weeks after the surgery. Necropsy results revealed hemivertebrae and compression of the spinal cord with associated myositis. Although attempted treatment was unsuccessful in this case, this report illustrates the diagnostic and treatment challenges of avian spinal disease.
30135259|Exotic-animal pet owners are a growing demographic group among individuals seeking veterinary care, yet very little information is known about their specific demographics, personal characteristics, and expenditure tendencies. A voluntary, in-clinic survey was performed to gather preliminary data in these areas on owners at an exclusively exotic-animal hospital in Utah. Of the 115 owners completing the survey, 39.8% brought in psittacine birds, 22.1% ferrets, and 38.1% other exotics. The demographic profile for the survey population was 33.6 years old, predominately female, well educated, and financially middle class. Most exotic pets were brought to veterinary hospitals because of a perceived illness by the owner. Most owners were interested in receiving future services, with bird owners most interested in diagnostic tests; small-mammal owners in receiving physical examinations, dental procedures, and vaccinations; and reptile owners in having pets sexed and receiving husbandry/diet information. In general, the owners were low self-monitors, indicating greater likelihood of attitude-behavior consistency. Although interpersonal orientation values were more variable, the higher the interpersonal orientation score, the closer the owner felt to the pet, especially among small-mammal owners. Owners with a greater perceived bond with their pet were interested in receiving a greater number of services in the future than those not as close. Owner perception of what they would spend and what they did spend were very similar, about $81 US per visit.
30136859|Most of the methods used to deflight birds have one or more disadvantages, including impermanence, poor cosmetic appearance, or impairment of breeding function. We hypothesized that transection of the tendon of the supracoracoideus muscle at its insertion on the proximal humerus would impair a bird's ability to raise the affected wing and thus result in flightlessness. The purpose of this project was to evaluate the effectiveness of unilateral or bilateral surgical tenectomy of the supracoracoideus muscle in deflighting cockatiels and pigeons. Six pigeons (Columba livia) and 9 cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) were included in the study. Three cockatiels were included in a sham group, and 3 birds of each species were included in a unilateral or bilateral tenectomy group. The birds in the sham group did not have flight difficulties at any time after surgery. Three cockatiels and 1 pigeon in the unilateral tenectomy group were flying within 3-6 weeks, respectively, after surgery. A ligament instead of a tendon was inadvertently transected in 2 of the pigeons in the unilateral group. These pigeons were able to fly the day after surgery. We did not euthanize these birds to confirm this suspicion. In the bilateral tenectomy groups, 1 of 2 cockatiels and 2 of 3 pigeons were eventually able to fly short distances within 4 to 6 months after surgery. In the same groups, 1 cockatiel died several hours after surgery and 1 pigeon was euthanized 6 weeks after surgery. The pigeon never regained its ability to right itself when placed on its back. Gross necropsies in both birds confirmed that the tendons of the supracoracoideous muscles had been transected. None of the birds undergoing unilateral or bilateral tenectomy had normal dorsal extension of the affected wing, but each was able to fly well enough to escape if taken outdoors. We concluded that neither unilateral nor bilateral supracoracoideus tenectomy is an effective technique for deflighting cockatiels or pigeons.
27753670|To compare the efficacy of treatment protocols recommended to aid passage of metallic foreign objects from the ventriculus of birds, a 1-mm metal sphere, made from solder wire, was placed into the crop of each of 44 budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus). After survey radiographs confirmed the spheres were lodged in the ventriculus, birds were divided into 6 groups. Each group received 1 of 6 different treatment protocols: psyllium with grit, acidic drinking water, fine grit, coarse grit, cathartic emollients (peanut butter and mineral oil), and a control group. All birds were treated simultaneously with a chelating agent, dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA), to prevent heavy-metal toxicosis. Successive survey radiographs were used to monitor elimination of the spheres from the digestive tract. Of all protocols tested, birds treated with either fine or large grit had the shortest mean elimination time of the metal spheres. These results indicate that administration of grit particles, either fine or coarse, appears to be effective in hastening the passage of metallic foreign objects from the ventriculus of budgerigars.
41318150|The goal of this study was to describe normal electrocardiographic (ECG) patterns and values in conscious helmeted guinea fowl (Numida meleagris). Using 8 clinically healthy birds, 4 males and 4 females, standard bipolar and augmented unipolar limb lead ECGs were recorded. Wave forms were analyzed in all leads at 50 mm/s and at 10 mm = 1 mV to determine PR, QRS, ST, QT durations; the net QRS complex; and P and T amplitudes. The polarity of each wave form was tabulated in all leads. The mean electrical axis (MEA) for the frontal plane was calculated by using leads II and III. The mean (SD) heart rate calculated from the lead II was 338.4  19.0 beats/min. The P wave was predominantly positive in all leads. The dominant pattern of wave forms of the QRS complexes was RS in leads II, III, and aVF; R in lead I; QR in lead aVR; and qR in lead aVL. The T wave was predominantly positive in leads I, II, III, and aVF. The mean (SD) of the heart MEA was -60.2  24.0. The ECG values and patterns tabulated in these clinically normal helmeted guinea fowl should provide a means of comparison to aid in the diagnosis of pathologic abnormalities in this species.
27823405|The Macqueen's bustard (Chlamydotis macqueenii), previously known as the Houbara bustard, is an increasingly threatened species. A potentially significant cause of its decline is illegal trade. When illegal shipments of these birds are confiscated by authorities in the United Arab Emirates, they are placed with the National Avian Research Center's (NARC) Macqueen's bustard rehabilitation program. In this report, we describe the threats to the Macqueen's bustard in the wild and provide a detailed description of the quarantine program at NARC and of how this program is designed to minimize the effects of diseases that are commonly seen in these illegally traded birds. Issues surrounding decisions for euthanasia, for incorporating birds into a breeding program, and for releasing birds back into the wild are also discussed.
41496979|Radiology is an important diagnostic instrument in avian medicine, but standard measurement ranges for the objective evaluation of radiographs of birds are rare. To establish radiographic reference ranges for the critically endangered Spix's macaw (Cyanopsitta spixii), we measured radiographic silhouettes of the heart, liver, kidneys, spleen, proventriculus, and keel of the sternum on 29 radiographs taken under standardized conditions in adult and juvenile, clinically healthy birds. Ratios were determined for the proventricular diameter-to-keel height, the width of the heart to the width of the thorax, and for the "hourglass shape" (ratio of the width of the heart to the width of the liver). No significant differences were found between the sexes among the adult birds. Compared with adult birds, juvenile females had a significantly larger heart width (19.8  1.4 mm versus 21.2  0.7 mm), ratio of the heart width to the thorax width (0.86  0.08 versus 0.94  0.09), and horizontal width of the spleen (7.7  0.6 mm versus 8.5  0.4 mm). Results of radiographic measurements in the Spix's macaws were comparable to those published from other psittacine species. These reference ranges will facilitate a more objective radiographic evaluation of captive Spix's macaws.
40236515|This study examined the effect of 2 fitness programs on the postrelease survival and ability to maintain weight of 15 peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) and 12 brown goshawks (Accipiter fasciatus) held captive for treatment or because they had been orphaned. Each bird was treated or allowed to mature, then was either exercised by traditional falconry methods or by stimulating flight within its cage. Prior to release, resting blood lactate concentrations were measured before a short period of exercise and at 2 and 10 minutes after a standardized exercise test. Preexercise blood lactate concentrations were higher in cage-exercised peregrine falcons compared with those exercised by traditional methods, but there was no difference in pre-exercise lactate concentrations between the 2 treatment groups of goshawks. At 2 and 10 minutes following exercise, blood lactate concentrations were significantly higher for the cage-exercised group of both species. All birds were fitted with radiotransmitters, released, and monitored, then were trapped at varying times after release and weighed. Of the falconry-trained birds, 3 of 6 peregrine falcons and all 4 brown goshawks gained weight. In contrast, all 9 peregrine falcons and 6 of the 8 brown goshawks subjected to cage exercise lost weight postrelease. The results suggest that peregrine falcons and brown goshawks exercised with traditional falconry techniques were more fit than the same species of birds exercised in their cages and that the improved fitness achieved with the former method increases the probability that captive peregrine falcons and brown goshawks will survive after being released to the wild. The study also indicates that postexercise blood lactate concentrations are important predictors of fitness in raptors.
30134507|Four cases of egg-binding in psittacine birds caused by torsion and entrapment of the oviduct by the suspensory apparatus of the oviduct are described. Passage of the egg through the oviduct was prevented by the torsion in all birds. The described cases occurred in birds that had laid many clutches of eggs. Three birds were fed diets with vitamin and mineral supplements; the diet of the fourth bird was unknown. One bird was diagnosed on postmortem examination, two were diagnosed and treated by hysterectomy, and one bird was successfully treated with removal of the egg and correction of the torsion, allowing further clutches of eggs to be laid normally. The topographic anatomy of the oviduct of a psittacine bird, a salmon-crested cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis), is described and compared with that of chickens (Gallus gallus).
30134889|Screening methods are needed for immediate field assessment of affected seabirds during oil spills. We compared the accuracies of 4 handheld blood glucose monitors-Accu-Chek Advantage, Glucometer Elite, Precision QID, and Sure Step-with that of Chemstrip bG for blood glucose determination in seabirds. Study subjects were 44 healthy, adult rhinoceros auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) housed at a wildlife health center. Handheld monitors were at least as accurate as the commonly used Chemstrip bG method in estimating plasma blood glucose concentrations, although the glucose measurements were significantly lower (P < .05), averaging 33% lower, than those determined by the chemistry reference laboratory. Costs of monitors and test strips were similar, but the Accu-Chek Advantage and Precision QID monitors were the easiest to use and gave reliable glucose measurements (coefficients of variation, <7%). These 2 monitors were used in subsequent evaluations of the effect of anticoagulants and the effect of time interval between sample collection and blood glucose determination. Storage of blood in heparin was preferable to ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid because it did not significantly (P > .05) alter blood glucose values. Storage of blood for up to 4 hours in a heparinized Microtainer tube at room temperature also produced minimal changes in glucose concentration. We found that electronic, handheld blood glucose monitors underestimate blood glucose concentrations of rhinoceros auklets by 33% in comparison with reference values. However, these monitors are reliable, give results comparable with the Chemstrip bG, and are potentially useful tools for screening purposes in the field during an oil spill.
30134891|This paper reports on the anesthesia and liver biopsy techniques used in adult and nestling pigeon guillemots (Cepphus columba) to test for continued exposure to residual crude oil in the marine environment. Populations of pigeon guillemots have declined significantly in Prince William Sound, Alaska, USA, possibly because of residual effects of crude oil in the environment after the Exxon Valdez oil spill in March 1989. Measurement of hepatic cytochrome P450 1A (CYP1A) is currently the best way to assess crude oil exposure from food sources; however, lethal sampling to obtain adequate liver tissue was not desirable in this declining population of birds. As part of a larger study to identify factors limiting the recovery of pigeon guillemots and other seabird populations, we surgically collected liver samples from adult and nestling guillemots to provide samples for measurement of hepatic CYP1A concentrations. Results from the larger study were reported elsewhere. Liver samples were taken from 26 nestling (1998) and 24 adult (1999) guillemots from a previously oiled site (Naked Island; 12 chicks, 13 adults) and from a nonoiled site (Jackpot Island/Icy Bay; 14 chicks, 11 adults). The birds were anesthetized with isoflurane. No surgical complications occurred with any of the birds and all adult and nestling birds survived after surgery to the point of release or return to the nest. Thirteen out of 14 chicks from the Jackpot Island/Icy Bay and 8 out of 12 chicks from Naked Island fledged. Four chicks at Naked Island were depredated before fledging. All adults abandoned their nests after surgery, so the study sites were revisited the following summer (2000) in an attempt to assess overwinter survival of the adults. All but 1 adult biopsied bird at the nonoiled site (Icy Bay) was found renesting, whereas only 2 birds at the previously oiled site (Naked Island) were similarly observed. The percent of 1999 breeders at Naked Island that returned to their nest sites to breed again in 2000 was low at nests of biopsied birds and nonbiopsied birds alike, suggesting that factors other than the surgical procedure were responsible for the low return rate among this group. These survival results provide strong support for using experienced veterinarians for nonlethal invasive sample collection from birds to document exposure to crude oil in the marine environment.
41318152|Candidiasis frequently affects the oropharynx, esophagus, and crop of juvenile birds with immature immune systems and adult birds that have received long-term antibiotic treatment. Fluconazole is used extensively in human medicine to treat mucosal and invasive candidiasis and has been used in birds; however, there have been few pharmacokinetic studies in avian species to guide safe and effective treatment. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the disposition of fluconazole in cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) after single oral dose administration and to determine if therapeutic plasma concentrations could be safely achieved by providing medicated water. Twenty-eight cockatiels were placed into 7 groups and were orally administered a 10 mg/kg fluconazole suspension. Blood samples were collected from each group for plasma fluconazole assay at serial time points. Fluconazole-medicated drinking water was prepared daily and offered to 15 cockatiels at a concentration of 100 mg/L for 8 days. Blood was collected for plasma fluconazole assay at 2 time points on days 3 and 7. When using nave averaged data in the single-dose study, pharmacokinetic parameters were similar for both compartmental and noncompartmental analyses. The elimination half-life of fluconazole was 19.01 hours, maximum plasma concentration was 4.94 g/mL, time until maximal concentration was 3.42 hours, and the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) was 149.28 h  g/mL. Computer-simulated trough and peak plasma concentrations at steady-state after multiple doses of fluconazole at 10 mg/kg every 24 hours, 10 mg/kg every 48 hours, and 5 mg/kg every 24 hours were approximately 4.1-8.5 g/mL, 1.2-6.0 g/mL, and 2.0-4.3 g/mL, respectively. Mean  SD plasma fluconazole concentrations for the 100 mg/L medicated water study at 0800 and 1600 hours on day 3 were 3.69  1.22 g/mL (range, 1.73-5.26 g/mL) and 4.17  1.96 g/mL (range, 3.58-7.49 g/mL), respectively, and at 0800 and 1600 hours on day 7 were 4.78  0.91 g/mL (range, 2.62-6.11 g/mL) and 6.61  1.67 g/mL (range, 3.76-8.78 g/mL), respectively. Treatment with fluconazole administered orally at a dosage of 5 mg/kg once daily or 10 mg/kg every 48 hours or fluconazole administered in the drinking water at a concentration of 100 mg/L is predicted to maintain plasma concentrations in most cockatiels that exceed the minimum inhibitory concentration of 90% or therapeutic AUC : MIC of most strains of Candida albicans (by using susceptibility data from humans). The compounded oral suspension was stable for 14 days when stored at 5C (41F) and protected from light.
30136865|A 33-year-old male great hornbill (Buceros bicornis) presented with a roughened fissured rostral casque. Physical examination revealed a softened rostral casque and diagnostic tests indicated a squamous cell carcinoma. A course of photodynamic therapy was begun in which cytotoxic oxygen radicals were generated to destroy tumor cells. Two courses of photodynamic therapy reduced the size and spread of the tumor initially but failed to eliminate the cancer. Upon physical deterioration and progression of the neoplasia, the bird was euthanized.
27823420|Seven blue-fronted Amazon parrots (Amazona aestiva aestiva), housed in 1 aviary, were presented within 8 hours of exposure to fire and smoke. The parrots exhibited variable degrees of dyspnea that developed between 1 and 4 hours after the exposure. Clinical signs of dyspnea resolved within hours after treatment with corticosteroids and furosemide. Because of a misunderstanding by the owner, oral prednisolone therapy was continued daily for 20 days. Within 1420 days, 5 birds developed signs of severe dyspnea and 3 birds died or were euthanatized. Results of necropsy revealed severe mycotic airsacculitis and pneumonia due to Aspergillus fumigatus. Prolonged corticosteroid treatment in these birds may have caused immunosuppression, predisposing them to development of aspergillosis.
30133153|A 12-year (1983-1994) retrospective study was conducted to determine the causes of morbidity and mortality in free-living raptorial birds of northern California. Of the 409 birds included in this study, 58% died of traumatic injuries and 30% died of infectious disease. The most frequent presenting signs were fractures, recumbency, shock, suboptimal weight, and dehydration. Although 30% of these raptors were in good nutritional condition, nearly 50% either were in fair condition or were emaciated. Pathologic lesions found in a few raptors (0.8%) indicated an underlying disease (eg, tuberculosis) was present before the birds succumbed to an acute, lethal, traumatic incident.
30135216|Bumblefoot in penguins is a serious disease that, if left untreated, can lead to death. Although unproven in penguins, the cause may be analogous to that in raptors where environmental conditions and husbandry practices are central to the cause and prevention of the problem. We developed a treatment protocol for bumblefoot in penguins that involves surgical debridement, flushing, complete closure, topical wound dressings, and bandage changes every 2 to 3 days. At 10 to 14 days after surgery, the penguin is fitted with a neoprene bootie, or "iceflo," which can be worn for 2 to 3 months to protect the surgical site and improve healing. The procedure is palliative and unfortunately not curative in all patients. The key to resolving this condition rests in prevention, including improved substrate, colder ambient temperature, increased feeding in the water, and forced swimming of individual birds that tend to stand on land for long periods of time.
30133137|Protein electrophoresis is a diagnostic technique that evolved from early basic studies of immunoglobulins. Although protein electrophoresis is readily applied to human diagnostic testing, the veterinary venue has only recently begun to realize the full potential of this simple technique. In the past decade, this tool has been successfully applied to avian diagnostics, where it allows for precise quantitation of albumin and globulin fractions. Changes in these protein components have value in detecting nephritis, hepatitis, mycotic diseases, chronic inflammatory diseases, and chlamydiosis. Additionally, with correct interpretation, electrophoretic results are an excellent prognostic indicator.
30135227|Conditions affecting the ocular tissues of birds include developmental abnormalities, infectious diseases, degenerative and neoplastic processes, and traumatic injuries. Ocular manifestations are common in birds with respiratory and systemic disease. The purpose of this article is to review avian ophthalmic diseases with a focus on companion and aviary species.
30134442|This review provides an overview of anatomic and physiologic features of the avian kidney that should be considered in designing regimens for renally excreted drugs in birds. Veterinarians frequently use drugs in birds that are formulated for use in mammals. Attempts have been made to extrapolate drug dosages for birds from those prescribed for mammals using allometric equations based on metabolic rates. Differences in anatomy and physiology of the two classes of animals make it difficult to achieve equivalent drug concentrations and durations of drug exposure, that is, pharmacokinetic equivalency, in birds and mammals using dosage normalization schemes such as the allometric equations currently in use. Furthermore, current schemes of allometric scaling separate birds into two large groups: passerines and nonpasserines. Because of the many structural and functional differences in the kidneys of birds within each of these two groups, it seems necessary to develop regimens for smaller, more uniform, groups of birds. Further studies may yield information that will allow birds to be grouped according to physiologic differences that represent adaptations to their environment.
30134183|Over 350 species of birds make up the order Psittaciformes; many of these are maintained in captive environments. Malnutrition is commonly diagnosed in captive psittacine birds; therefore, providing nutritionally adequate diets must be a primary concern. This review integrates quantitative information on the dietary habits and nutritional requirements of psittacine birds to facilitate the formulation and evaluation of diets for birds in captivity. Initially, characterization of the diet and feeding strategy of a particular species in the wild can provide insight into appropriate diet choices in captivity. Knowledge of the gastrointestinal anatomy and physiology can be used to elucidate the capacity of that species to utilize various feedstuffs. For example, the presence of a highly muscularized gizzard may allow a bird to utilize a seed-based diet, whereas a species possessing a small gizzard may be unable to process such a diet. Finally, nutrient requirements determined in a particular species or a related species (eg, similar digestive physiology and feeding strategy) may be applied to create a nutritionally adequate diet. Understanding the factors involved in selecting appropriate diets enables aviculturists, veterinarians, and nutritionists to maintain and propagate these birds with increased success.
27823376|A dusky-headed conure (Aratinga weddelli) with a history of being force fed a large amount of garlic (Allium sativum) was presented because of anorexia and lethargy. The conure died 1 hour after supportive care was administered. At necropsy, a half clove of garlic and several large pieces of chicken meat were present in the crop. Histopathologic findings of hemoglobinuric nephrosis and hepatosplenic erythrophagocytosis strongly suggested an acute hemolytic event. Frozen kidney and liver samples were negative for polyomavirus DNA, and tissue lead and zinc levels were normal. The clinical presentation and postmortem findings in this conure are similar to those in mammals with onion and garlic (Allium species) toxicosis.
30134519|The cardiopulmonary effects of propofol as a total intravenous (IV) anesthetic agent was evaluated in 14 adult male, white leghorn, SPF chickens (Gallus gallus domesticus). The birds were anesthetized with isoflurane to allow placement of indwelling catheters and monitoring instrumentation; isoflurane was then discontinued, and the chickens were allowed to recover for 30 to 60 minutes. One minute before induction with propofol, a baseline electrocardiogram (EKG) was done, and values of pulse, respiratory rate, direct arterial blood pressure, arterial blood gas, and temperature were recorded. The chickens were then given a bolus of propofol (4.5-9.7 mg/kg) injected intravenously. Anesthesia was maintained by a constant infusion of propofol (0.5-1.2 mg/kg/minute) for 20 minutes, and physiologic values were recorded at 1, 3, 5, 10, 20, and 25 minutes (5 minutes after infusion was stopped). Arrhythmias were common during propofol anesthesia and occurred in 13 of the 14 birds. Induction and maintenance with propofol caused significant respiratory and cardiovascular depression. In one bird, mean arterial blood pressure decreased to 52 mm Hg during the constant infusion. Hypoxemia was also common, and PaO decreased to 49 mm Hg in one bird during the infusion. When used at three times the induction dose, propofol was fatal to all of the chickens in this study, suggesting that it has a narrow margin of safety in birds.
41826560|Removal of foreign bodies from the ventriculus in birds may necessitate ventriculotomy. Complications with this intervention include leakage and adhesion formation. To investigate if the use of a coelomic fat patch and a tension-relieving suture in addition to a simple interrupted pattern would improve the healing process after ventriculotomy, 2 groups of 9 Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) underwent ventriculotomy. In group 1, only simpleinterrupted and tension-relieving sutures were used for closure of the ventriculotomy. In group 2, a coelomic fat patch from the surrounding adipose tissue was applied to the incision site in addition to the sutures. All quail recovered normally and were considered clinically healthy after surgery. Three birds from each group were euthanatized at days 7, 14, and 21 after surgery. On histologic examination, the suture techniques used for closure of the ventriculotomy led to minimal inflammation of the surrounding tissues in both groups. Serosal inflammation was significantly greater in group 2 birds that had the adipose patch at closure compared with group 1 birds. Therefore, the use of a coelomic fat patch to cover the site of ventriculotomy did not result in an improved healing process and its use is not recommended in quail.
41497486|A 3-year-old male, hybrid mallard duck (Anas platyrhynchos) was presented with a 2-year history of progressive, ascending paresis and paralysis. On presentation, the bird was in sternal recumbency and displayed intermittent focal seizures and intention tremors. Proprioceptive deficits and absent withdrawal reflexes were observed in both pelvic limbs, wing extension was limited, and reflexes were diminished bilaterally. Other findings included emaciation and dehydration. Results of a complete blood count and plasma biochemical analysis revealed anemia, hypoproteinemia, hypoglycemia, and hyperuricemia. Radiographs were unremarkable and results of an Aspergillus antibody were weakly positive. The duck went into cardiopulmonary arrest and died approximately 1 hour after initiating treatment with intravenous crystalloid fluids. A postmortem diagnosis of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) was made based on the presence of neuronal granular cytoplasmic material that was autofluorescent and stained with periodic acid-Schiff and Luxol fast blue. To our knowledge, this is only the second case report of NCL in an avian species and the first in waterfowl.
27823365|The purpose of this study was to determine whether a reduction in dietary iron concentration can result in significant decreases in hepatocellular hemosiderin content in toucans with iron-storage disease. We studied 2 adult toco toucans (Ramphastos toco) previously diagnosed with iron-storage disease. Liver biopsy specimens were taken before lowering dietary iron levels to <100 mg/kg on a dry-matter basis and taken again 8 months later. One bird died from airsacculitis at 12 months, and a postmortem specimen was also analyzed. Computerized image analysis of the specimens showed significant reductions (P < .001) in hepatocellular hemosiderin content over this period. Computerized image analysis is a valid means of quantifying relative iron content in serial liver biopsy specimens and can be used to monitor response to dietary iron reductions in birds with iron-storage disease. The significant relative reduction in hepatocellular iron content in these 2 toucans with iron-storage disease, in response to dietary modification alone, is encouraging. More work is required to determine whether dietary iron levels can be safely reduced still further, as well as whether a greater effect can be obtained by instituting such modifications for other toucans before clinically significant liver damage has occurred.
30135182|Most breeders of budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) limit clutches to two to three per year, usually during the spring and summer. The female may become exhausted and stressed while caring for the growing chicks, particularly if she has had more than three clutches in a year. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of dividing parental duty between the two budgerigar parents, using the male to raise the offspring for part of the time while letting the female rest. Twenty pairs of budgerigars were divided into two groups. In one group, both parents remained in the cage during the entire study; in the other group, the female was removed from the cage when the youngest chick was 10 days old and was returned to the cage 20 days later to start a new clutch. This procedure was carried out for five clutches over a period of 11 months. All birds were kept under constant conditions of light (16 hours per day) and temperature (25C). Chicks in the first clutch were weighed from 1 to 30 days of age. No difference was found between the two study groups in the number or rate of growth of offspring. The order of hatching did not influence the growth rate of chicks in either group. Moreover, the growth rate was not influenced by the age of the chicks when the female was taken out of the cage (10 to 18 days of age). Each pair of budgerigars produced five sequential clutches with an average of 17.6 and a maximum of 24 offspring per pair per year. Resting the budgerigar female did not prevent a 65% decrease in production from the first to the fifth clutch. In conclusion, dividing parental duty between two budgerigar parents, using the male to raise the offspring from the time the youngest offspring is 10 days old until the next desired clutch, is a means to let the female rest without damage to its performance (number of chicks per clutch, health of chicks, or weight gain of chicks). Under constant conditions of light and temperature, budgerigar eggs and offspring can be produced during all seasons.
30130679|In part 1 of this report, an overview of basic avian ocular anatomy is provided, and the steps involved in performing a complete ophthalmic examination of a bird are reviewed. Additionally, a general review of ophthalmic diagnostic techniques is discussed.
30136905|A 6-year-old female red lory (Eos bornea) was presented with abdominal swelling and nesting behavior, which could be suggestive of hyperestrogenism. On physical examination, the bird was obese and had a firm palpable mass extending from the keel to the pubic bones. Elevated biochemical analytes included alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, creatine kinase, and cholesterol. A ventral midline abdominal hernia, severe hepatomegaly, and polyostotic hyperostosis were diagnosed on the basis of whole body radiographs and abdominal ultrasound. The abdominal hernia was reduced successfully through a ventral midline celiotomy. Severe and diffuse hepatic lipidosis with mild biliary hyperplasia was observed histologically from a liver biopsy. Postoperative management consisting of diet modification and increased exercise resulted in a significant decrease in liver size radiographically 6 months after surgery.
27670706|A free-ranging adult female great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) was presented to the Wildlife Medical Clinic at the University of Illinois after being observed with anorexia and decreased activity. A severe leukocytosis (212 400 cells/l), primarily comprised of mature heterophils, was found at presentation. Results of various diagnostic tests including radiographs, Chlamydophila serologic testing, measurement of Aspergillus antibody and antigen titers, plasma protein electrophoresis, fecal culture and acid-fast staining, coelioscopy, endoscopy, tracheoscopy, exploratory coelomotomy, nuclear scintigraphy, tissue cultures, bone marrow biopsy, and histopathology revealed no underlying cause for the persistent leukocytosis. No response to treatment with antibiotics or antifugal agents was observed, although a transient, significant decrease in the leukocyte count (6200 cells/l) was observed after treatment with fenbendazole. A presumptive diagnosis of chronic myelogenous leukemia was made based on 3 factors: disease duration of greater than 3 months, a lack of identifiable foci of inflammation, and a lack of response to conventional therapy. The diagnosis was confirmed based on postmortem examination and testing 177 days after initial presentation.
30133125|A 2.5-year-old female ostrich (Struthio camelus) was examined because of stunted growth, dyspnea, tachypnea, and a systolic and diastolic heart murmur. Results of laboratory testing revealed high concentrations of aspartate aminotransferase, gamma glutamyltransferase, creatine kinase, and a low serum vitamin E concentration. Radiographs revealed cardiomegaly with prominent pulmonary veins. Echocardiography was difficult, and imaging was possible only from the left side of the thorax because of cardiomegaly. Results revealed that the right ventricle, left atrium, and left ventricle were enlarged, and high blood flow velocities were detected by pulse and continuous-wave Doppler in the right and left ventricles. The values for fractional shortening of the right and left ventricle were within reference ranges. The ostrich died 6 months after it was examined, and results of necropsy revealed a large arteriovenous shunt between an aortic aneurysm and the right ventricle, a fibrotic liver, and a large ovarian cyst. The pathophysiologic changes associated with the shunt explained many of the clinical and pathologic findings in the ratite. The concentrations of copper in the liver and kidneys were low, suggesting that copper deficiency may have been the predisposing cause of the aneurysm in this ostrich.
40236582|A disease condition with clinical and pathologic findings compatible with psittacine proventricular dilatation disease was diagnosed in a canary (Serinus canaria), a greenfinch (Carduelis chloris), a long-wattled umbrellabird (Cephalopterns penduliger), and a bearded barbet (Lybius dubius). The canary and the greenfinch were kept as pets by different owners, whereas the bearded barbet and the long-wattled umbrellabird were kept in separate mixed species enclosures at the Barcelona Zoo. Clinical signs were variable in all 4 birds and included polyphagia, weight loss, weakness, and ataxia. Postmortem examination findings were also variable and included emaciation, hepatic and renal atrophy or enlargement, gallbladder dilatation, and intestinal and ventricular dilatation. Histopathologic lesions in all birds consisted of multifocal lymphoplasmacytic infiltration of myenteric and cardiac nerves and ganglia. These lesions are characteristic of proventricular dilatation disease of psittacine birds.
24624837|Pododermatitis is a pathologic condition commonly reported in captive raptors and characterized by swelling, excoriation, ulceration, cellulitis, or abscessation of the plantar aspect of the foot. Its cause can be multifactorial, often involving abnormal weight bearing or poor sanitation, and medical and surgical techniques, in addition to environmental alterations, are hallmarks of treatment. In this case, a single pedicle advancement flap was used to treat chronic, nonresponsive grade V/VII pododermatitis of the right metatarsal pad in a red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis). The advancement flap was formed by using the interdigital skin between digits 3 and 4. The double layer of skin was incised and separated, and the leading edge of the flap was then advanced over the defect and secured with simple interrupted subcutaneous and skin sutures. The foot was bandaged after surgery to take pressure off the surgical site. At 58 days after the surgery, the hawk was deemed medically sound with no signs of pododermatitis and was released to a wildlife rehabilitator. The use of a single pedicle advancement flap has not previously been reported for the treatment of pododermatitis.
27823350|The effects of medetomidine-ketamine and diazepam-ketamine as injectable anesthetic combinations were compared in racing pigeons (Columba livia). Two groups of 6 pigeons of undetermined gender were used. Pigeons in group 1 were anesthetized with medetomidine (125 g/kg) and ketamine (30 mg/kg) administered intramuscularly. At the first sign of recovery, the medetomidine antagonist atipamezole (65 g/kg IM) was administered. Pigeons in group 2 were anesthetized with diazepam (2 mg/kg IM) and ketamine (60 mg/kg IM). Response to painful stimuli was recorded for each pigeon in both groups, and changes from baseline in heart and respiratory rates and body temperature were determined. The medetomidine-ketamine combination provided a deeper plane of anesthesia with better analgesia than did diazepam-ketamine, based on significant differences in reflex scores and heart-rate changes after painful stimuli. Recovery was rapid and smooth in pigeons given medetomidine-ketamine, whereas recovery was prolonged in pigeons given diazepam-ketamine. In the clinical study, the level of anesthesia achieved with medetomidine-ketamine was unreliable, with birds exhibiting violent wing flapping. We conclude that further controlled studies must be done in a clinical setting before practical recommendations can be made for using the combination of medetomidine-ketamine for anesthesia of pigeons.
30134522|A diagnosis of coccidiosis was made in 16 juvenile merlins (Falco columbarius) and one juvenile snowy owl (Nyctea scandiacea) from breeding facilities in the United Kingdom. The owl and fourteen of the falcons were from individual breeding facilities in which outbreaks of coccidiosis occurred in clutches of birds. The coccidia in all birds were identified as Caryospora neofalconis. Affected birds exhibited clinical signs of regurgitation, depression, reduced appetite, hemorrhagic feces, diarrhea, weight loss, or acute death. Surviving birds were treated with one to three courses of sulfadimidine (sulfamethazine) (50 mg/kg PO ql2h). Additionally, amprolium was administered to one merlin (22 mg/kg PO q24h for 6 days, then 7.5 mg/kg PO q24h for 4 days) and the owl (15 mg/kg PO q24h for 4 days). After treatment with amprolium, the merlin exhibited seizures that were responsive to thiamine administration. Coccidiosis due to Caryosproa neofalconis was confirmed at necropsy in five other merlins. Results of histologic examination in these birds revealed hemorrhagic foci in the small intestines caused by the coccidia. We conclude that Caryospora neofalconis is a pathogen of captive-bred raptors in the UK and that management procedures in captive propagation programs should include examination and treatment of susceptible birds before release into the wild.
30133203|A zoological aviary housing multiple species had a history of Syngamus trachea infections in golden-breasted starlings (Cosmopsarus regius) during successive spring seasons. Subsequently, 2 red-and-yellow barbets (Trachyphonus erythrocephalus) housed in the aviary died at separate times after presenting with respiratory distress. Syngamus trachea worms were found in the trachea of each bird at necropsy. This is the first report of death related to S trachea infection in a species of the order Piciformes.
30133172|This article examines the traditional relationship between the houbara bustard (Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii) and desert falconry in the Middle East and reviews the factors causing the decline of houbara populations. Hunting with falcons, industrial development, changes to traditional agriculture, political instability, subsistence hunting, and wars are important factors combining to threaten this species throughout its range. Many initiatives to conserve the houbara bustard in the Middle East are supported by Arab falconers. The role of national wildlife conservation agencies in the Middle East in establishing captive breeding and restoration programs, habitat protection, ecological studies, biomedical research, local hunting organizations, falcon research groups, sustainable use in range countries, public awareness programs, rehabilitation projects, and international agreements to conserve the houbara bustard are described.
40236606|As part of a larger ecologic research project and to collect disease prevalence information on backyard chicken flocks in northwestern Ecuador, 100 randomly selected birds from 10 flocks were examined, and blood, fecal, and ectoparasite samples were collected. The owners of the flocks were surveyed regarding flock management and disease history. Mean flock size was 20 birds (range, 1-75), and birds were kept for eggs and meat for either domestic consumption or local sale. Vaccination rates were low, with most owners (8 of 10) not vaccinating at all and some (2 of 10) vaccinating with one product either sporadically (1 of 10) or annually (1 of 10). None of the owners treated their chickens for parasites. Mortality rates of offspring were reported as high as 50% (range, 35%-50%) per flock. Deaths were associated with diseases described by owners as causing neurologic signs, sudden death, or respiratory problems. In addition, owners described epizootics of wartlike seasonal skin lesions, presumably but not confirmed as avian pox. Results of commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays on serum samples showed that birds had antibodies against infectious bursal disease virus (100%), Newcastle disease virus (97%), avian encephalomyelitis virus (92%), chicken anemia virus (90%), infectious bronchitis virus (85%), Mycoplasma gallisepticum (73%), and Mycoplasma synoviae (68%). Although 11% of birds showed the presence of antibodies for avian influenza, antibody levels were low in all but 4 birds. Most birds (90%) had feather mite infestations. Results of necropsy and fecal examinations found low levels of internal parasitism, with cestodes and ascarids identified as the most prevalent endoparasites. Ectoparasites identified were Dermanyssus gallinae and Ornithonyssus bursa. The poultry diseases to which sampled chickens had been exposed are likely the cause of the high mortality rate reported by flock owners. In these backyard poultry flocks in Ecuador, preventive medicine protocols that provide realistic cost-benefit advantages should be implemented. Because wild birds are susceptible to some poultry diseases, free-roaming chickens might be potential vectors of pathogens that could affect wild birds.
30135247|A 13-year-old female barred owl (Strix varia) presented for anorexia and lethargy. Physical examination revealed obesity, and radiographs demonstrated hepatomegaly. Plasma biochemistry values suggested liver disease, and hepatic lipidosis was confirmed by liver biopsy. Treatment included antibiotic and antifungal therapy, fluid administration, vitamin supplementation, and enteral alimentation with a balanced diet delivered through an esophagostomy tube. The owl completely recovered within 78 days after initial presentation.
40793208|A juvenile golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) was presented with proliferati ve epithelial lesions, consistent with avian poxvirus infection, around the eyes, on commissures of the beak, and on both feet. Despite treatment, the eagle declined clinically, and, 15 days after presentation, the eagle began seizuring and was euthanatized because of a poor prognosis. On postmortem examination, avian poxvirus infection was confirmed in the nodular skin lesions, and Candida albicans was cultured from the skin, lungs, and brain. Breaks in the skin barrier from poxvirus infection likely led to secondary infection with albicans. Systemic vascular dissemination of C albicans to the brain resulted in thrombosis, hemorrhage, local hypoxia, and the clinically observed seizures. The combination of the breach in the primary immune system, immunosuppression, and a prolonged course of antibiotics were contributory factors to the opportunistic fungal infection in this eagle. Candida albicans should be considered as a differential diagnosis for encephalitis in an immunocompromised avian patient.
40236571|A male mallard duck (Anas platyrhynchos) presented for examination for acute respiratory distress and lethargy. The duck had experienced recurrent episodes of respiratory distress since being attacked by a raccoon the previous year, resulting in neck lacerations. Diagnostic tests, including a complete blood count, plasma biochemical analysis, radiography, and tracheoscopy, revealed a collapsed trachea. Surgical correction of the collapsed tracheal segment resulted in resection of 9% of the total tracheal length and subsequent anastomosis. Tracheoscopy performed 2 and 3 months after surgery revealed a healthy mucosa, minimal reduction of the tracheal lumen in the area of anastomosis, and minimal suture granuloma formation.
41318141|Candida albicans is among the major agents of mucous membrane mycosis in humans and animals, with systemic and deep infections observed in immunocompromised hosts. We describe a case of fatal granulomatous myocarditis caused by C albicans in a 20-day-old canary (Serinus canaria). The etiologic diagnosis was confirmed by identifying characteristic morphologic features of the organism, combined with histochemical staining, and followed by the use of ad hoc biomolecular analysis.
27823351|Several reports implicate Encephalitozoon hellem, a microsporidian parasite first described in humans and later in birds, as the causative agent of severe disease in immunocompromised patients. This study was conducted to assess the prevalence of microsporidian spores shed in the droppings of lovebirds. During a 7-month period, a total of 198 apparently healthy lovebirds from 8 flocks in Texas were sampled, including 113 peach-faced lovebirds (Agapornis roseicollis), 32 masked lovebirds (Agapornis personata), and 53 Fischer's lovebirds (Agapornis fischeri). Smears made from cloacal swab samples of individual birds were stained with calcofluor white M2R stain and examined for the presence of spores. Microsporidian spores were identified in the droppings of 25% of the lovebirds sampled. Peach-faced and masked lovebirds were more likely to shed spores than were Fischer's lovebirds (2 = 15.905, P < .001). No difference in spore shedding was found between juvenile and adult birds (2 = 0.157, P = .692; odds ratio = 1.659; 95% CI, 0.7363.736). Lovebirds (n = 111) were also assayed for psittacine beak and feather disease virus by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing of individual blood samples. Lovebirds that were PCR positive for psittacine beak and feather disease virus (n = 23) were approximately 3 times more likely to shed microsporidian spores than were lovebirds that were PCR negative (2 = 3.981, P = .046; odds ratio = 2.6; 95% CI, 1.0136.754). These results suggest that companion birds without obvious clinical illness commonly shed microsporidian spores. These birds may be a source of spore contamination for opportunistic infections in humans.
30135195|The survival of transfused red blood cells (RBCs) may be short in donor birds receiving heterologous transfusions, and increased risk of mortality may occur after multiple heterologous transfusions. The purpose of this study was to determine the survival of RBCs labeled with fluorescent stain after a single heterologous transfusion between conures of the genus Aratinga. Fifteen sun conures (Aratinga solstitialis) were equally divided into three transfusion groups: an autologous or control group (transfusion to same bird), a homologous group (sun conure to sun conure), and a heterologous group (white-eyed conure [Aratinga leucophthalmus] to sun conure). Donor blood (1 ml) was centrifuged to remove the plasma. The washed RBCs were labeled with a fluorescent stain and transfused into recipient sun conures. Serial blood samples were analyzed using flow cytometry to measure fluorescent-labeled RBCs remaining in circulation over time. The half-life of labeled RBCs was shorter in the heterologous group (4.5 days) than in the autologous and homologous groups (9.9 and 8.5 days, respectively); however, these differences were not statistically significant. We conclude that the half-life of RBCs after a single heterologous transfusion between conures in the genus Aratinga is comparable to that after a single autologous or homologous transfusion in conures. Whenever possible, homologous blood donors should be used for anemic birds requiring transfusions. However, when a homologous donor is not available and a healthy donor bird from the same genus is available, a single heterologous transfusion may be efficacious.
30135246|An adult osprey (Pandion haliaetus) was evaluated because it was unable to fly and was experiencing severe respiratory distress. Despite supportive care, the bird died. Significant histopathologic findings included widespread, multifocal hemorrhage in parabronchi and air capillaries and emboli consisting of adipose connective tissue containing hematopoietic islands demonstrated in medium-sized pulmonary arteries. This is the first reported case of pulmonary fat embolism in a bird.
27753691|A 24-year-old female umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba) was examined because of a subcutaneous swelling of the left shoulder. Radiographs of the left wing revealed boney proliferation of the left proximal humerus. At surgery, an unencapsulated infiltrative nonpigmented mass within the subcutaneous tissue and skeletal muscle was identified overlying the left humerus. The mass was surgically excised and submitted for histologic examination; however, the cockatoo died after excision. Histologically, the mass was composed of nests and sheets of pleomorphic neoplastic cells with a high mitotic index and extensive necrosis. Rare neoplastic cells contained fine brown cytoplasmic granules that stained black with Fontana-Masson, confirming the presence of melanin pigment. The histomorphologic diagnosis was consistent with an anaplastic malignant melanoma of subcutaneous tissues.
27823363|Electroretinography is a noninvasive method of evaluating retinal function, which is especially useful when evaluating patients with cataracts. This study was undertaken to characterize the normal latencies, amplitudes, and presence of oscillatory potentials in the electroretinogram of Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis). Six healthy 3-year-old parrots with clinically normal eyes were anesthetized with isoflurane. Electroretinograms were recorded in the light- and dark-adapted states with white light and in the dark-adapted state with white, red, and blue light. Oscillatory potentials were also recorded. The mean latency for the light-adapted a-wave was 11.35 (1.54) milliseconds and for the light-adapted b-wave was 24.4 (6.17) milliseconds. The mean amplitude of the light-adapted a-wave was 20.4 (5.45) V and of the light-adapted b-wave was 57.34 (27.82) V. The mean latency for the dark-adapted a-wave was 12.15 (1.55) milliseconds and for the dark-adapted b-wave was 29.65 (3.98) milliseconds. The mean amplitudes of the dark-adapted a-wave and dark-adapted b-wave were 38.61 (13.44) V and 129.47 (26.12) V, respectively. The oscillatory potentials were composed of 3 or 4 peaks. Variability in latency increased from O1 to O4, and 3 eyes did not have recordable O4. The data showed that the latencies of the a- and b-waves and the amplitudes of the dark-adapted b-waves of Amazon parrots were similar to those of dogs with normal retinas. The light-adapted a- and b-waves of the parrots had greater amplitudes than did the light-adapted a- and b-waves of dogs.
27823355|Trauma and skin defects are common presentations in companion and wild birds. Two barn owls (Tyto alba), an umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba), and an American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) were presented for varied skin wounds. Porcine small intestinal submucosa was used as a xenogeneic graft to repair wound defects in each bird. The wounds healed within 6 weeks in all 4 birds, with less intensive wound management than that required for healing by second intention. All birds returned to normal function.
30134447|A 6-week-old rhea (Rhea americana) chick experienced weakness and ataxia of a few hours' duration followed by death. Histopathology of the intestines revealed villous atrophy and fusion, hyperplastic crypts, and inflammatory cell infiltrate in the lamina propria. Intestinal epithelial cells contained eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusions. Coronavirus-like particles were identified by electron microscopy from the intestinal contents. This is the first report of coronavirus-like agents associated with enteritis in a rhea.
30134448|Adrenal carcinoma was diagnosed in a 4-year-old budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) with anorexia, weight loss, dyspnea, abdominal distention, and ataxia. Diagnosis was made on the basis of light and electron microscopic features of the neoplastic cells. Although neoplastic cells infiltrated the testicular capsule, anterior kidney, and air sac, distant metastases were not observed.
27823462|A natural outbreak of avipoxvirus occurred in recently purchased stone curlews (Burhinus oedicnemus) at a breeding farm and subsequently spread to other stone curlews residing at the farm. The initial outbreak was characterized by mild vesicular skin lesions on the legs, which then developed crusts and bled. The overall morbidity rate was 100%, but none of the birds died, and all recovered without complication. Four gallinaceous species, also kept on the farm, did not develop lesions. Avipoxvirus was identified from the skin lesions by virus isolation, electron microscopy, and monoclonal antibody testing, as well as by polymerase chain reaction testing. Eight months after this outbreak, 7 male stone curlews developed large, round, crusty lesions on their legs. Although poxvirus virions were identified in the lesions, results of virus isolation were negative. These lesions possibly were the result of a recrudescence of the original infection in male birds that were stressed because they were housed together during the breeding season. This is the first clinical description of an avipoxvirus infection in stone curlews.
30135183|A deformed egg laid by a domestic chicken was presented for examination. In this egg, the outer shell membrane had ruptured and herniated, resulting in a hole in the eggshell. No other abnormalities of the egg were observed. The exact cause of the deformity was unknown, but it probably resulted from an abnormality as the shell membranes were deposited. Although eggshell abnormalities are sometimes seen in poultry, a deformity caused by an outer shell membrane anomaly has not been reported.
41497483|Marbofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone developed specifically for veterinary use, has demonstrated considerable pharmokinetic variation among avian species. The goal of this study was to determine the disposition kinetics of marbofloxacin in mallard ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) after a single intravenous injection. Six wild mallard ducks were used in the study. Marbofloxacin was injected at a dose of 2 mg/kg into the basilic vein, and blood was subsequently collected at regular intervals from each bird. Plasma marbofloxacin concentrations were determined by using high-performance liquid chromatography. The volume of distribution at steady state was 1.78  0.37 L/kg, and the total plasma clearance was 0.59  0.08 L/kg per hour. Marbofloxacin had a relatively short permanence, with a elimination half-life of 2.81  1.20 hours, a terminal half-life of 2.43  0.61 hours, and a mean residence time of 2.99  0.52 hour. The maximum observed concentration (C max ) and area under the curve (AUC) were 1.34  0.27 g/mL and 3.75  0.56 g  h/mL, respectively. Values of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC), C max , and AUC have been used to predict the clinical efficacy of a drug in treating bacterial infections, with a C max : MIC value of 10 and an AUC : MIC ratio of 125-250 associated with optimal bactericidal effects. By using the study data and MIC breakpoints of 0.125 g/mL or 0.2 g/mL, values derived for C max : MIC were 9.37  0.99 and 5.85  0.62, respectively, and for AUC : MIC were 29.99  4.51 and 18.74  2.82, respectively. By using MIC values of 0.125 and 0.2 g/mL and a target AUC : MIC = 125, the calculated optimal daily marbofloxacin dosages for mallard ducks were 9.24 and 14.78 mg/kg, respectively. These results suggest that, primarily because of the high total plasma clearance observed, the marbofloxacin dose for treatment of bacterial diseases in mallard ducks should be increased after intravenous administration. Intravenous doses of 10- 15 mg/kg should be assessed by studying their potential toxicity and efficacy in sick birds.
24624835|To describe normal electrocardiographic parameters in conscious Muscovy ducks (Cairina moschata), standard bipolar (I, II, and III) and augmented unipolar limb (aVR, aVL, and aVF) lead electrocardiograms were recorded in 10 clinically healthy birds. Wave forms were analyzed in all leads at 50 mm/s and at 10 mm = 1 mV to determine PR, QRS, ST, QT durations; the net QRS complex; and P and T amplitudes. The polarity of each waveform was tabulated in all leads. The mean electrical axis (MEA) for the frontal plane was calculated by using leads II and III. The mean (SEM) heart rate calculated from lead II was 146.6  6.8 beats/min. The P wave was predominantly positive in all leads. The dominant pattern of waveforms of the QRS complexes was rS in leads II, III, and aVF, whereas, in leads aVR, and aVL, the pattern was R. The T wave was positive in leads II, III, and aVF and was negative in leads aVR and aVL. The mean (SEM) of the heart MEA was 91.2  1.8. The electrocardiographic values and patterns tabulated in these clinically normal Muscovy ducks should provide a means of comparison to aid in the diagnosis of pathologic abnormalities in this species.
30134222|An 11-year-old male peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus), known to have been a successful breeder in the wild with 31 offspring in 9 breeding seasons, was presented for evaluation of wing and leg injuries and for the purpose of rehabilitation. Four 13-day-old young were present in the nest at the time of injury. Aside from superficial trauma to the left leg and wing, a dorso-cranially luxated left coxofemoral joint and a severely fragmented (7-8 fragments) left ulna were seen radiographically. The coxofemoral luxation was manually reduced and held in position by slinging the left leg, bandaged in flexion, to the body for 14 days. After removal of the sling and leg bandage, the falcon regained full use of the moderately contracted left leg within 2 days. The left wing was immobilized with a figure-of-8 bandage. The ulnar fragments were held in alignment by the intact left radius, which served as an internal biologic splint. To promote rapid healing with reestablishment of full biomechanical strength and normal function, the wing fracture was treated according to the concepts of biological fracture healing without surgical intervention. Complete healing of the ulna was achieved within 25 days. For strengthening of the wing and to assure prey capture capability, the falcon was reconditioned in a large flight chamber under the supervision of a licensed falconer. He was released into his home territory 4 months after his accident and continued his productive life for another 2 breeding seasons, in which 5 additional young were produced.
27823450|An adult female bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was presented with a history of being unable to fly. Physical examination revealed crepitus in the left shoulder, and radiographs revealed a middiaphyseal coracoid fracture with overriding fragments. The fracture was surgically stabilized with 2 bone plates. The eagle was rehabilitated and successfully released 5 months after presentation. This case demonstrates the use of bone plating of the coracoid bone in a raptor, resulting in early return to full function and release.
30134521|An African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus timneh) was examined because of a recurrent deep granuloma in the body of its tongue. Repeated diagnostic tests were performed during an 18-month clinical period, including hematologic testing and plasma biochemical analyses, histologic examination of multiple biopsy samples, and fungal and bacterial culture and sensitivity testing of biopsy samples. Radiographs, including a fistulogram, were nondiagnostic. Torulopsis candida and Enterococcus species were cultured from exudate obtained from the granuloma. Histopathologic examination of one biopsy sample revealed circumscribed calcinosis of the tongue. Surgical debridement of the lingual mass and exploratory surgery of the cervical area were performed, and the parrot was treated with several different antibiotics and antifungal drugs for prolonged periods. Nineteen months after the parrot was first examined, a seed hull was found in exudate removed from the granuloma.
30133108|Seven houbara bustard (Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii) and 10 rufous-crested bustard (Eupodotis ruficrista) chicks were radiographed serially to determine the pattern of long bone development and to establish radiographic standards for assessing skeletal maturity. The ossification pattern, appearance of secondary ossification centers, and epiphyseal fusion of the long bones in the houbara and rufous-crested bustards were similar to those in domestic fowl (Gallus gallus domesticus), house wrens (Troglodytes aedon aedon), racing pigeons (Columba livia), and barn owls (Tyto alba). Secondary ossification centers were present at the proximal and distal tibiotarsus, proximal tarsometatarsus, and proximal metacarpal III. The ossification of all long bones occurred earlier in houbara bustards compared with rufous-crested bustards.
24623894|Pharmacokinetic data were determined after a single dose of meloxicam in red-tailed hawks (RTH; Buteo jamaicensis) and great horned owls (GHO; Bubo virginianus). In a nonrandomized crossover design, individual birds of each species received 1 dose of intravenous meloxicam (0.5 mg/kg IV; n = 7 for each species) followed by a 2-week washout period, and then each received 1 dose of oral meloxicam (0.5 mg/kg PO; n = 5 for each species). Blood samples were collected intermittently after administration, and meloxicam was detected in plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography. Time versus plasma concentration data were subjected to noncompartmental analysis. Red-tailed hawks were determined to have the shortest elimination half-life for meloxicam (0.49  0.5 hours) of any species documented. Great horned owls also eliminated meloxicam very rapidly (0.78  0.52 hours). Great horned owls achieved higher plasma concentrations (368  87 ng/mL) of meloxicam than RTH (182  167 ng/mL) after oral administration, although RTH had a markedly higher volume of distribution (832  711 mL/kg) than GHO (137.6  62.7 mL/kg). The differences in meloxicam pharmacokinetics between these 2 raptor species supports the need for species-dependent studies and underlines the challenges of extrapolating drug dosages between species. Results of this study suggest that the current recommended once-daily dosing interval of oral meloxicam is unlikely to maintain plasma concentrations anticipated to be therapeutic in either RTH or GHO, and practical dosing options are questionable for this nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory drug in these raptor species.
30136863|An adult finch was presented with a 1-cm mass near the thoracic inlet. Histologically, the mass was diagnosed as a thymoma of lymphocytic type. The clinical signs and histologic findings related to the thymoma are presented. The similarities and differences between thymomas in birds and mammals are discussed briefly.
30133225|Immune-mediated hemolytic anemia occurs infrequently in poultry and is undocumented in parrots. In this study, we describe a blue-crowned conure (Aratinga acuticaudata) with a strongly regenerative anemia, a predominance of round, small erythrocytes (presumed spherocytes), leukopenia followed by leukocytosis, elevated plasma protein, biliverdinuria, and polyuria. Radiography and ultrasonography demonstrated a markedly enlarged spleen. After immunosup-pressive treatment with prednisolone, the anemia, abnormal erythrocyte morphology, and biliverdinuria resolved but returned promptly after discontinuation of the therapy. We propose that this conure suffered from an immune-mediated hemolytic anemia.
27823432|The disposition and effects of 2 formulations of injectable doxycycline administered at 100 mg/kg were investigated to determine if plasma concentrations considered adequate for treating avian chlamydiosis (1 g/ml) could be safely maintained in 3 species of psittacine birds. Five orange-winged Amazon parrots (Amazona amazonica) that received a commercial doxycycline hyclate formulation (20 mg/ml) intramuscularly achieved maximum plasma doxycycline concentrations of 9.33  0.82 g/ml and maintained concentrations >1 g/ml for 5 days. In a second trial, 8 orange-winged Amazon parrots and 8 Goffin's cockatoos (Cacatua goffini) received micronized pharmacist-compounded doxycycline (75 mg/ml IM). In orange-winged Amazon parrots, maximum plasma doxycycline concentration was 2.54  0.38 g/ml, and concentrations of approximately 0.5 g/ml were sustained from 24168 hours. In Goffin's cockatoos, maximum plasma doxycycline concentration was 3.49  0.18 g/ml, and concentrations >1 g/ml were maintained for at least 168 hours. In a third trial, groups (n = 4) of orange-winged Amazon parrots, Goffin's cockatoos, and timneh African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus timneh) received micronized pharmacist-compounded doxycycline (100 mg/ml IM); a separate group of timneh African grey parrots (n = 4) received the same dose subcutaneously. Plasma doxycycline concentrations were lower than in the second trial, and no group achieved 1 g/ml. After 24 hours, concentrations were sustained at approximately 0.40.8 g/ml in Goffin's cockatoos and at 0.30.4 g/ml in orange-winged Amazon parrots and timneh African grey parrots for at least 20 days. No significant difference was found in doxycycline plasma concentrations in timneh African grey parrots injected subcutaneously as compared with those in parrots injected intramuscularly. Reaction at the injection site was observed in all birds receiving pharmacist-compounded doxycycline, including marked, persistent swelling at the intramuscular injection site and sloughing of skin and scab formation at subcutaneous injection sites. The results of this study show that both the efficacy and the severity of injection-site reactions seen with use of this particular formulation of pharmacist-compounded doxycycline may vary depending on the species treated and particular drug batch.
27753688|Two birds from a zoological collection suffered fatal intestinal obstruction after each ingested single particles of polyacrylamide gel. Polyacrylamide gel, used in soils for gardening and agriculture, exists as small granules in the dehydrated state but expands markedly upon exposure to water. Polyacrylamide gel might, therefore, be an unrecognized hazard for captive and wild birds and other small animals if consumed.
40236507|A 2-year-old female Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) was presented with a 20-month history of chronic malodorous diarrhea. Megacloaca with cloacitis, suspected clostridial enteritis, and suspected chronic synsacral and caudal vertebral osteomyelitis were diagnosed on the basis of radiograph results, laboratory testing, radiographic and fluoroscopic gastrointestinal contrast studies, and histopathologic examination of cloacal tissue biopsy samples. The bird was treated surgically by reducing the coprodeum. In addition, aggressive medical care, including fluids, nutritional support, and antibiotics, was instituted. Although results of clostridial toxin enzyme immunoassays and fecal clostridial cultures were negative, we suspected clostridial overgrowth because of the bacterial morphology on a Gram's stain of fecal samples. At the time of this report (4 years after surgery), the cockatoo remains relatively asymptomatic. Attempts to discontinue metronidazole therapy or lactobacillus supplementation result in recurrence of malodorous feces and retention of feces within the coprodeum. The cause of the megacloaca was never definitively established; however, surgical reduction of the coprodeum appears to have improved the bird's quality of life and possibly reduced the potential for future health complications.
40793204|Surgical procedures of the wing are commonly performed in companion, captive, and wild avian species. To develop a clinically applicable brachial plexus nerve block technique for perioperative analgesia in birds, 8 adult female mallard ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) were anesthetized and used in several local anesthetic trials with bupivacaine (2 or 8 mg/kg) or a combination of lidocaine (15 mg/kg) and epinephrine (3.8 g/kg) perineurally; equal volumes of saline were administered as control treatments. Both axillary and dorsal approaches to the brachial plexus were evaluated. With the axillary approach, radial and ulnar compound nerve action potentials (CNAP), sensory nerve conduction velocities (SNCVs), and cord dorsum potentials (CDPs) were recorded after distal sensory nerve stimulation. Values were recorded before and at 5, 30, and 60 minutes after injection of local anesthetic or saline. Birds were monitored for the presence of a wing droop and a change in motor function on recovery from anesthesia. Results were highly variable for all techniques. No technique significantly decreased CDPs or resulted in consistent wing droop. Radial and ulnar CNAPs, SNCVs, and CDPs were consistently recorded in all birds. Variable results might indicate that the treatment, concentration, or volume of local anesthetic used was ineffective in producing local anesthesia. Electrodiagnostic methods used in these ducks to assess loss of sensory nerve conduction might not be sensitive enough to assess the effects of local anesthesia. Further research is needed to identify methods for assessing the efficacy of brachial plexus nerve blockade in birds.
40236527|Cutaneous, tumor-like nodules were observed on the digits and distal wings in 6 of 52 laughing doves (Streptopelia senegalensis) kept in an aviary. The nodules were surgically removed, and the birds were treated postoperatively with tetracycline. Histopathologic examination of the resected tissue revealed eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies associated with a heavy infiltration of heterophils, lymphocytes, and fewer plasma cells. Electron microscopy revealed pox virions. No additional cases were reported after the birds were surgically treated and quarantined from the remainder of the aviary. The location of lesions on the digits and distal wing tips is unusual for poxvirus. To our knowledge, infection with poxvirus has not previously been diagnosed or reported in wild birds in the Sultanate of Oman.
30133219|Birds of prey encounter many injuries that make treatment a challenging process. These include electrocution, trauma-associated cuts and abrasions, gunshot wounds, barbed wire and leg-hold trap ensnarement, puncture wounds, and damage from inappropriate housing and husbandry. The mechanism of wound healing is similar to that seen in mammals, with a continuous progression through the phases of inflammation, proliferation, and remodeling. Healing by primary closure (suturing) is generally preferable to healing by secondary intention, though the latter is more common in raptors because of the delayed presentation of most wounds. Debridement and lavage, with chlorhexidine at a 0.05% solution being considered to provide optimal results, are required for all wounds. Many topical medications are used to manage open wounds in raptors, including recently developed wound-healing stimulants. Bandage materials used are the same as those used for other species, though the type of bandage varies according to the uniqueness of avian anatomy. Specific injuries such as bumblefoot, degloving, frostbite, digital amputation, and crop laceration may require special consideration.
41826546|Serum protein electrophoresis has gained importance in avian medicine during the past decade. Interpretation of electrophoretic patterns should be based on species-specific reference intervals and the electrophoresis gel system. In this study, serum protein electrophoresis by using high-resolution agarose gels was performed on blood samples collected from 105 falcons, including peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus), gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus), saker falcons (Falco cherrug), red-naped shaheens (Falco pelegrinoides babylonicus), and hybrid falcons, that were submitted to the Dubai Falcon Hospital (Dubai, United Arab Emirates) between 2003 and 2006. Reference values were established in clinically healthy birds and compared with values from falcons infected with Aspergillus species (n = 32). Falcons with confirmed aspergillosis showed significantly lower prealbumin values, which is a novel finding. Prealbumin has been documented in many avian species, but further investigation is required to illuminate the diagnostic significance of this negative acute-phase protein.
27823403|A cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) was presented with generalized pruritis and feather loss around the head and patagial membranes of the wings. Treatment with antiparasitic and antibiotic agents did not result in clinical improvement. The lesions progressed to a generalized crusty dermatitis of the skin in the areas of feather loss. Results of skin biopsy revealed acute eosinophilic folliculitis and pyoderma containing budding yeasts. A yeast, Trichosporon asahii, was identified on fungal culture of a skin biopsy sample. Skin lesions and pruritis rapidly resolved with oral ketoconazole therapy.
41682468|Applied behavior analysis was used in a female hyacinth macaw (Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus) to reduce specific, excessive mating-type posturing that had become disruptive due to increased frequency, duration, and intensity. A functional assessment and intervention design worksheet was used to evaluate behavior-environment relations and to develop an individualized behavior-change plan. The functional assessment indicated that human attention was maintaining the behavior. The intervention, differential reinforcement of incompatible behavior, was implemented to increase attention for standing upright and to remove attention for posturing. Within 1 month, posturing decreased to acceptable levels and was replaced with an upright posture. Problem behaviors that appear "reproductive" may be responsive to behavior management alone. Applied behavior analysis and a functional assessment and intervention design are ideal tools to address problem behavior in avian patients.
30134460|Supernumerary limbs are infrequently reported congenital anomalies in birds. A mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) that was examined because of an attack by a cat was incidentally found to have a scissor beak deformity, unilateral anophthalmia, cloacal duplication, and an accessory lower limb. Radiographs revealed bifurcation of the most distal portion of the gastrointestinal tract, and they did not show any articulation of the accessory limb with the axial skeleton or any vertebral anomalies. Amputation of the accessory limb was elected. The bird made an uneventful recovery and was subsequently released.
30133142|A 4-year-old Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) was examined because of lethargy and a necrotic wound on the lateral base of the tail. Over the previous 2 years, the bird had chronic diarrhea and was treated with long-term antibiotics. A contrast radiographic study demonstrated slow gastrointestinal transit time and a large filling defect in the caudal abdomen. Clostridium tertium, a bacterium rarely found in psittacine birds, was isolated on bacterial culture of a fecal sample. Despite wound debridement and parenteral antibiotic treatment, the bird died. At necropsy, the colon was severely dilated. Histopathologic examination revealed diffuse, severe lymphoplasmacytic inflammation of the colon and massive ulceration and bacterial colonization of the pygostyle.
30136864|A 6-year-old male white cockatoo (Cacatua alba) was presented for evaluation of a large mass inferior to the right eye, which developed after a traumatic injury. A cyst was suspected based on the history, physical examination findings, and cytologic analysis of aspirated fluid. Surgical exploration revealed that the mass originated from the infraorbital sinus. Histopathologic analysis of excised tissue confirmed a secretory epithelial cyst. The cyst did not recur during a 4year follow-up period. Cystic lesions should be included in the differential diagnosis of periorbital disease in birds.
40236568|A fatal adenovirus infection is described in a wild-caught American kestrel (Falco sparverius). Predominate lesions were a moderate to severe hepatitis with diffuse single-cell necrosis of hepatocytes and a splenitis characterized by necrosis of cells surrounding the sheathed arteries. Pan-nuclear eosinophilic to magenta inclusion bodies were abundant within hepatocytes. Polymerase chain reaction was used to amplify a portion of the hexon gene from DNA extracted from the bird's liver and spleen. Sequence analysis showed that the adenovirus infecting this kestrel was the falcon adenovirus with a sequence homology of 99.5% to the isolate from the Northern aplomado falcon (Falco femoralis) variant and 98.6% homology to isolates from the taita (Falco fasciinucha) and orange-breasted falcons (Falco deiroleucus). This report expands the range of species of falcons that are susceptible to falcon adenovirus infection and disease. Given that this kestrel was recently wild caught and housed in isolation with other wildcaught kestrels, it is likely that the falcon adenovirus is present in wild populations of American kestrels.
41826565|Cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) are commonly diagnosed with ovarian neoplasia. However, there is very little information regarding medical management of this disease condition and subsequent patient response. Long-term medical therapy of 2 cockatiels eventually diagnosed with ovarian neoplasia is described along with responses to the treatment regimens. Each bird had initial signs consistent with reproductive disease (chronic egg laying, ascites, and lethargy) and respiratory distress. The diagnosis of ovarian adenocarcinoma was confirmed on postmortem examination of both birds. The birds were conservatively managed by periodic coelomocentesis and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist administration for 9 and 25 months, respectively. A positive response to GnRH agonist therapy was documented in 1 of the 2 birds. These 2 cases demonstrate that periodic coelomocentesis with or without GnRH agonist therapy may be a viable option for the long-term management of ovarian neoplasia and reproductiveorgan-associated ascites in cockatiels.
41318121|Although the use of indirect methods for measuring blood pressure has become commonplace in dogs and cats, it is uncertain whether these methods can be extended to avian species with any proven accuracy or precision. To evaluate the precision of indirect blood pressure measurement in conscious psittacine birds by the Doppler flow method, 25 psittacine birds, weighing between 230 and 1263 g and representing 17 commonly kept species, were examined. Birds were manually restrained, and indirect blood pressure measurements were obtained by placing a cuff around the limb proximal to a Doppler ultrasonic flow detector held over either the basilic or cranial tibial artery. Three sets of 3 measurements were obtained from each wing and leg site, with cuff size and site based on pilot study data identifying the selection criteria of cuff placement with the least variance among repeated measurements. A mixed-effects linear regression analysis was performed to evaluate the differences among mean blood pressure measurements in the individual bird, obtained from the wing versus leg site as well as from 3 different cuff placements at each site. Results showed variation attributable to the limb was not significant. However, blood pressure measurements varied significantly between cuff placements on the same limb from the same bird and among individual birds. The precision of these indirect blood pressure measurements was poor. From these results, the meaning and value of Dopplerderived indirect blood pressure measurements obtained in psittacine birds remains in question, warranting further research.
24624839|A 1.5-year-old female Mississippi sandhill crane (Grus canadensis pulla) was presented and managed for a polyarthritis of the intertarsal and tarsophalangeal articulations. Results of aerobic bacterial cultures, Mycoplasma species culture, and polymerase chain reaction testing of articular fluid did not identify any causative organisms. Results of radiographs and cytologic examination of articular fluid were consistent with an inflammatory, nonerosive polyarthritis. The arthritis did not improve with systemic anti-inflammatory and antibiotic treatment and with joint lavage. A large necrotic granulomatous mass was detected on the right shoulder area from which Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus species were isolated as opportunistic pathogens. Two days after surgical resection of the mass, the distal polyarthritis resolved. Histopathologic examination of the mass was consistent with granulomatous vasculitis with abscess formation of unknown origin. In this crane, the unresponsiveness to standard therapy, the presence of an infected and inflammatory mass, and the resolution of the polyarthritis after the resection of the mass strongly supported a diagnosis of reactive immune-mediated nonerosive polyarthritis. Analysis of this case suggests that immune-mediated idiopathic arthritis should be a differential diagnosis of distal polyarthritis in cranes and that an inciting source remote from the joints should be investigated in case of lack of response to standard therapy.
27823352|The kakapo (Strigops habroptilus) is a critically endangered New Zealand parrot. The presence of house sparrows (Passer domesticus) infected with a potentially pathogenic phage type of Salmonella enterica on the 2 islands that contain the remaining kakapo caused concern that this phage type might infect the kakapo and threaten their survival. This study sought to determine the presence or absence of Salmonella and Campylobacter species in the kakapo population of Codfish Island, New Zealand. Fecal and cloacal swab samples from kakapo were collected during an annual health examination and cultured for Salmonella and Campylobacter species. None of the cultures from the 39 birds sampled were positive for either organism. Results of this study suggest that kakapo on Codfish Island are not currently infected with these organisms. However, management changes have been made to reduce the risk of disease transmission from feral birds, and surveillance for these organisms in the kakapo will be continued.
30135243|Chronic and excessive egg laying is a frequent clinical syndrome in pet birds that can result in reproductive, nutritional, or behavioral pathology. Environmental manipulations to suppress ovarian activity are not always successful, and surgical intervention may involve serious risk. Tamoxifen, an estrogen blocker used to treat women with breast cancer, has been suggested as a chemical method of blocking the hen's reproductive cycle. In this study, 20 budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) of various ages, presumed to be female but not actively laying eggs, were treated with tamoxifen for 38-46 weeks. Adverse effects analogous to those reported in humans were not observed; these included regurgitation, weight loss, loss of appetite, decreased activity, feather changes (alopecia), lameness or wing drooping (bone pain), abdominal distention, and radiographic changes in bone density. In budgerigars treated with tamoxifen, the packed cell volume, total serum calcium concentration, and total protein concentration remained relatively constant throughout the study. Leukopenia was the most significant adverse effect observed in treated birds. When treatment was discontinued, white blood cell counts returned to reference ranges in most birds. Antiestrogenic effects of tamoxifen were suggested by a change in cere color from white or brown to blue in birds during treatment. If tamoxifen is used in budgerigars, birds should be screened for subclinical infectious disease before treatment begins, and white blood cell counts should be monitored.
41682474|Administration of intranasal midazolam (2 mg/kg) was evaluated for sedation and effects on cloacal temperature, respiratory rate, and heart rate in manually restrained Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis). Adult parrots (n = 9) were administered either midazolam (2 mg/kg) or an equal volume of saline solution intranasally before a 15-minute manual restraint in a complete crossover study. Respiratory rate and sedation scores were recorded before and during capture and during and after 15 minutes of manual restraint. Heart rate and cloacal temperature were recorded during manual restraint. After restraint, the parrots received intranasal flumazenil (0.05 mg/kg) or an equal volume of saline solution, and the recovery time was recorded. In those birds that received midazolam, sedation was observed within 3 minutes of administration, and vocalization, flight, and defense responses were significantly reduced during capture. During manual restraint, the mean rate of cloacal temperature increase was significantly slower and remained significantly lower in birds that received midazolam compared with controls. Mean respiratory rates were significantly lower for up to 12 minutes in parrots that received midazolam compared with those receiving saline solution. Flumazenil antagonized the effects of midazolam within 10 minutes. No overt clinical adverse effects to intranasal midazolam and flumazenil administration were observed. Further studies on the safety of intranasal midazolam and flumazenil in this species are warranted.
30133107|Thirty-seven house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) with conjunctivitis were admitted to a rehabilitation center. Six (35%) of 17 conjunctival swab samples collected before treatment began were positive on culture for Mycoplasma gallisepticum. All birds were treated with ciprofloxacin hydrochloride ophthalmic solution (one drop in each eye [OU] q12h) for 5 to 7 days and tylosin tartrate in water (1 mg/ml) as the sole source of drinking water for 21 to 77 days. Conjunctivitis was resolved in all birds after therapy was completed (60 to 177 days). Conjunctival swab samples from all birds collected after treatment and submitted for culture were negative for M. gallisepticum. Two (11%) of the 18 conjunctival swab samples collected after treatment were positive for M. gallisepticum by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Serum samples from 2 (5.4%) other of the 37 birds were antibody positive for M. gallisepticum by serum plate agglutination; serum samples from these two birds were antibody negative when retested 22 days later. No gross lesions were found at necropsy in 16 house finches that had been treated, including the birds that tested positive by PCR or serum plate agglutination. Tissue samples of conjunctiva, choanae, infraorbital sinus, trachea, lungs, air sacs, and reproductive organs collected at necropsy were negative for mycoplasma by culture (n = 16) and PCR (n = 15). We did not find evidence of M. gallisepticum infection in house finches after treatment with tylosin tartrate administered orally and ciprofloxacin hydrochloride ophthalmic solution applied topically.
41826559|Elegant-crested tinamou (Eudromia elegans) are members of the family Tinamidae. A review of postmortem records at the Saint Louis Zoo suggests that this species is highly susceptible to aspergillosis. Antemortem detection of Aspergillus infections can be aided by evaluating results of hematologic, plasma biochemical, protein electrophoretic, and Aspergillus antigen and antibody serologie testing. To establish species-specific reference intervals for these parameters in elegantcrested tinamou, blood samples were collected and analyzed from 19 healthy captive adult and subadult elegant-crested tinamou. The predominant circulating leukocyte in elegant-crested tinamou is the lymphocyte. Prealbumin electrophoresis fractions were detected in 4 of 19 birds (21%), and globulin fractions were detected in all birds. All birds had measurable titers for Aspergillus antibody and galactomannan antigen, including 3 birds with antibody levels considered to be positive. Galactomannan levels were all below the positive threshold of 1.0. Results of hematologie and plasma biochemical analyses performed on blood samples obtained from terminally ill elegant-crested tinamou with confirmed aspergillosis were compared with results from healthy individuals. Significant differences were found in the hematocrit, total white blood cell count, heterophil and monocyte counts, and albumin and globulin levels.
41497482|The avian iris is mainly composed of striated muscle fibers, and the topical parasympatholytic drugs used in mammals to induce pupil dilation are ineffective in birds. The achievement of mydriasis in conscious birds is only possible by using neuromuscular blocking agents such as curariform drugs. To determine the efficacy of the neuromuscular blocking agent rocuronium bromide as a mydriatic agent in European kestrels (Falco tinnunculus) and to assess possible adverse effects due to its use, 10 kestrels received a single topical instillation with a pipette of 0.12 mg of rocuronium in each eye (total dose, 0.24 mg/bird). Pupil diameter was measured with a pupillary gauge, and pupillary light reflex was assessed by using a standard light source from time zero (Tbase) to 250 minutes after application (T250). Baseline pupil size (Tbase) was 3.30 (0.71) mm in both eyes. Maximal mydriasis was achieved at T90 minutes with a mean (SD) pupillary diameter of 6.30 (0.42) mm and 6.35 (0.41) mm in the right eye and left eye, respectively. At the dose used, rocuronium bromide induced a consistent bilateral simultaneous mydriasis without noticeable adverse effects, and it can be considered a reliable and safe topical mydriatic agent in kestrels.
27753672|To determine the effect of midazolam on ketamine-xylazine anesthesia, 20 guinea fowl (Numida meleagris galeata) were randomly divided into 2 groups. Birds in group KX were anesthetized with ketamine (15 mg/kg IM) and xylazine (2.5 mg/kg IM), whereas the birds anesthetized in group KXM received midazolam (0.3 mg/kg IM) in addition to the ketamine and xylazine protocol. The onset of anesthesia, duration of analgesia, duration of recumbency, and recovery time were determined. Heart and respiratory rates as well as cloacal temperatures were recorded immediately after drug administration and at 10-minute intervals until the birds were sternally recumbent. Analgesia was assessed as a response to artery forceps applied to the digit and skin proximal to the tarsal joint. The mean (SD) duration of analygesia in the group KXM birds was 37.4  23.5 minutes, whereas no analgesia was apparent with the group KX birds. The duration of recumbency was significantly longer and respiratory rates were significantly lower in group KXM birds compared with those in group KX. Adverse effects were minimal and included diarrhea (n = 1) and hypersalivation (n = 2) in group KX birds, and regurgitation (n = 2) in group KXM birds. Midazolam administered intramuscularly appeared to improve the anesthetic quality of ketamine and xylazine in guinea fowls without adversely affecting safety.
27753669|The wings are the most important part of the flight apparatus of a bird and consist of feathers, bones, muscles, nerves, and patagial skin flaps. The complex kinematics of wing beats and the perfect control of aerodynamics make avian flight possible. An impaired flight can be viewed as an avian lameness; therefore, a better understanding of avian locomotion can help to diagnose and to evaluate the avian patient, especially when perfect flight is required for release of wild birds. Every condition affecting a specific part of the wing can lead to serious biomechanic and aerodynamic consequences during flight. This review summarizes wing mechanics that might be of clinical relevance for avian practitioners considering the current experimental and theoretical scientific knowledge available on avian flight in conjunction with observations of birds in various wildlife centers.
30133182|Eight captive ostriches (Struthio camelus), ranging in age from 9 to 11 months, were given a combination of medetomidine and ketamine, administered intramuscularly, and propofol, administered intravenously, for induction and maintenance of anesthesia. Medetomidine (80 g/kg IM) and ketamine (2 mg/kg IM) resulted in profound sedation and sternal recumbency within a mean time of 14.6  10.0 minutes in 6 birds. Two birds remained standing but were moderately sedated. Propofol, used for induction (3 mg/kg IV) and maintenance (0.2 mg/kg/min constant rate infusion) of anesthesia, enabled intubation and provided muscle relaxation sufficient for restraint lasting 30 minutes. Apnea was observed after propofol administration, but spontaneous ventilation resumed within 60 to 90 seconds. All birds were bradycardic throughout the anesthetic event. Both the heart rate and the cloacal body temperature decreased significantly at 25 and 30 minutes, respectively, after induction. By 5 minutes after induction, the respiratory rate increased significantly and remained high throughout the remainder of the 30-minute evaluation period. During the anesthetic period, systolic, mean, and diastolic blood pressures, as well as arterial pH, arterial oxygen and carbon dioxide partial pressures, and end tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure showed no significant changes. The relative arterial oxygen saturation (SpO) was significantly elevated at 15, 25, and 30 minutes after induction. The SpO was less than 90% at 2, 5, 10, and 20 minutes after induction; however, arterial blood gas analysis indicated adequate arterial oxygenation. Anesthetic reversal with the -antagonist atipamezole (400 g/kg, one half IV and one half SC) was smooth and resulted in a mean recovery time of 21.0  7.3 minutes. The combination of IM medetomidineketamine and IV propofol used in this study proved to be effective for sedation as well as the induction and maintenance of anesthesia in captive ostriches.
27823401|A 12-year-old female cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) presented with a history of acute onset dyspnea. Clinical signs were not evident initially, and survey radiographs were unremarkable. Dyspnea returned 12 hours later and was accompanied by audible wheezing, suggesting tracheal obstruction. An air sac cannula was placed to allow adequate ventilation. Tracheoscopy with a 1.2-mm semirigid telescope revealed a seed foreign body in the trachea proximal to the syrinx. The semirigid telescope allowed visibility of the seed during removal with endoscope graspers. Initial attempts at removal failed, but removal was successful 36 hours later during a second attempt. The bird recovered uneventfully and remains clinically normal 1 year after removal of the obstruction.
27670689|A 1.5-year-old male Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) presented to Kansas State University Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital with a 4-month history of lethargy and weakness. Hematologic and radiographic diagnostic testing revealed profound leukocytosis and coelomic and pulmonary granulomatous masses of unknown origin. The bird died during laparoscopic evaluation under general anesthesia. Necropsy revealed multiple pulmonary and hepatic soft-tissue nodules and an intracoelomic mass over the left kidney communicating with external subcutaneous masses and a pericloacal mass of similar gross appearance. Histopathologic findings identified a severe, disseminated, inglammatory infiltration of multiple tissues and multiple granulomas containing bizarre multinucleated cells. No causative agent of this granulomatous disease was identified. To our knowledge, this is the first report of systemic atypical granulomatous disease in Moluccan cockatoo. Traditional causes of granulomatous disease include mycotic disease, bacterial (ie, Mycobacterium) disease, and neoplasia. Attempts to identify an causative agent or neoplasia were unsuccessful. A retrospective review of pathology records revealed 2 additional cases with identical pathologic lesions. All 3 cases occurred in young Moluccan cockatoos and are assumed to be a disease of unknown origin that could be unique to this species.
41497484|An adult female African collared dove (Streptopelia roseogrisea) was presented for examination of a mass on the medial surface of the left wing. The mass had been present for 2 months but had grown rapidly over the previous 2 weeks. One week after presentation, the mass was surgically excised and the involved alular bone was removed. Results of histologie examination of the mass were consistent with an aneurysmal bone cyst. No underlying factor could be found in this case. The wound healing was uneventful, and no mass recurrence was observed during the following year. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an aneurysmal bone cyst in a columbiform bird.
30136858|Serratospiculiasis is a parasitic disease produced by filarial nematodes of the genus Serratospiculum in the subfamily Dicheilonematinae. This genus comprises at least 9 different species grouped according to the length of the spicules. In the Middle East, S seurati has been the only species of this genus positively identified to date in captive falcons. Serratospiculum seurati has an indirect life cycle, like other filarioids. In a previous study, the larval life cycle of S seurati was replicated in 5 different species of beetles. More recently, 2 additional invertebrate species (a beetle and a wood louse) that occur where falcons are maintained were added. Serratospiculum seurati is transmitted in captivity by ingestion of infected beetles. After beetle ingestion, the L3 larvae are released from their capsule and penetrate the wall of the proventriculus and ventriculus. Histopathologic evidence suggests that the migration to the air sac system is direct. After reaching the air sacs, the L3 larva undergoes 2 molts to produce the L5 or immature adult filarial worm. Adult parasites breed and produce large numbers of embryonated ova, which are coughed out through the trachea to the mouth, swallowed, then excreted in the feces. Histopathologic findings in infected birds normally demonstrate the presence of adult filarial worms, larvae, and embryonated ova within tissues. Numerous parasitic stages in the lung periphery are associated with mild focal hemorrhages, focal necrosis, and mild to moderate macrophage infiltration. Adult filarial parasites are commonly observed on both sides of the collagen-muscle fiber layer immediately below the epithelial or mesothelial section of the air sacs. In several birds with severe infections, S seurati was associated with pneumonia, airsacculitis, and early lesions of aspergillosis. Ivermectin has been routinely used at the dosage of 1 mg/kg SC repeated 1 or 2 weeks later without observing any detrimental effects. Currently, the anthelmintic agent moxidectin, administered in tablet form, is undergoing trials for the control of S seurati infections in captive falcons.
30134893|A captive, 18-year-old male Nicobar pigeon (Caloenas nicobarica) with a history of intermittent lameness associated with osteoarthritis in the left tarsometatarsal joint was found dead in its enclosure and submitted for postmortem examination. On gross examination, the left adrenal gland was enlarged and histologically was confirmed as a pheochromocytoma (chromaffin cell tumor). When functionally active, pheochromocytomas can cause nonspecific clinical signs associated with the cardiovascular, nervous, urinary, respiratory, and digestive systems. The majority of clinical signs in animals with this tumor are vague and nonspecific, making antemortem diagnosis challenging. Pheochromocytomas are rare tumors in humans (occurring in 0.20-0.04% of all tumors) and even rarer in animals. Only 2 other cases of this tumor in avian species, a budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) and a 14-week-old chicken (suspected case), have been reported.
30133171|An adult female Temminck's fruit dove (Ptilinopus porphyrea) was presented with a history of paresis and reluctance to fly. Results of diagnostic tests and histopathologic examination revealed hepatic and skeletal granulomas caused by Salmonella typhimurium. The lesions caused by Salmonella in this dove were similar to those observed in birds infected with Mycobacterium species.
27823400|An established massage technique for semen collection in budgerigars, cockatiels, and monk parakeets was applied to 40 different birds of 26 different psittacine species in a period of 4 weeks. Semen collection was successful in 8 individual birds (Aratinga species, Tanygnathus species, Guarouba guarouba, and Pionus chalcopterus). Large parrot species (Ara ambigua, Cacatua leadbeateri, Amazona species, and Eclectus species) were difficult to handle and did not relax during the application of the massage technique. Semen was evaluated for volume, color, pH, spermatozoa concentration, total spermatozoa number, spermatozoa motility, and fraction of living spermatozoa. Additionally, spermatozoa were examined for pathomorphologic abnormalities.
30133198|The air sac functional anatomy of sulphur-crested cockatoos (Cacatua galerita) during isoflurane anesthesia was studied by evaluation of respiratory casts of sulphur-crested cockatoos, blood gas analysis, and air sac gas analyses. The air sac anatomy of the sulphur-crested cockatoo was different from that described previously in nonpsittacine bird species, with more extensive cranial and caudal thoracic air sacs and smaller abdominal air sacs. Blood gas analysis results indicated arterial and venous hyperoxia as a result of using 100% O as the anesthetic carrier gas, the significance of which in birds is currently unclear. Cranial and caudal thoracic air sac oxygen and carbon dioxide partial pressures (Po and Pco, respectively) were similar to those previously described in birds ventilated with 100% O. Clavicular air sac Po and Pco were significantly lower than the cranial thoracic air sac, indicating significantly less ventilation of the clavicular air sac than of either the cranial or caudal air sacs.
30133089|A type II external skeletal fixator was used to treat eight birds with a traumatic tibiotarsal fracture and four birds with an angular deformity of the pelvic limb. The external skeletal fixator consisted of bent Kirschner wires and a connecting system of molded polymethyl methacrylate. In four birds with a tibiotarsal fracture the external skeletal fixator was combined with an intramedullary pin. The device was inexpensive, lightweight, easy to remove, and tolerated by the birds, which allowed early postoperative weight bearing on the affected limb. Healing of the fracture in seven birds with a tibiotarsal fracture was radiographically complete 10 weeks following application of the external skeletal fixator. Arthrodesis of the intertarsal joint rather than osteotomy of the tibiotarsus proved to be a successful technique for correcting angular deformities originating from the distal tibiotarsus. Arthrodesis of the intertarsal joint stabilized by an external skeletal fixator from the tibiotarsus to the tarsometatarsus was radiographically complete 13 weeks following surgery. Complications in two birds (delayed union and malunion) were related to technical errors in the construction and application of the external skeletal fixator and led to abnormal function of the pelvic limb.
41826552|A Chilean flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis) was presented to the veterinary clinic at the North Carolina Zoological Park for evaluation of acute weakness of the right wing. Results of a physical examination revealed a lack of a palpable pulse in the radial artery, which suggested occlusion or obstruction of the vessel. Radiography, thermography, and fluorescein angiography confirmed right wing injury and vascular compromise. Based on the poor prognosis for return to function associated with irreversible vascular damage, the wing was amputated. After a period of observation and treatment, the bird was returned to public exhibit.
27753658|Milk thistle (Silybum marianum) has been used in humans for the treatment of liver disease because of its antioxidant properties and its ability to stabilize cell membranes and regulate cell permeability. To investigate possible hepatoprotective effects in birds, standardized extracts (80%) of silymarin from milk thistle were tested in white Carneaux pigeons (Columba livia). Pigeons were separated into 3 groups and fed diets formulated to provide milk thistle at a level of 0, 10, or 100 mg/kg body weight per day. After acclimation, the birds were challenged with B1 aflatoxin (3 mg/kg body weight for 2 consecutive days) by oral gavage. Liver function then was assessed by hematologic testing and plasma biochemical analysis, liver histopathology, and hepatobiliary scintigraphy. Results of histopathology and hepatobiliary scintigraphy showed no protective effects from milk-thistle administration. Aflatoxin challenge resulted in hepatic inflammation and necrosis, biliary-duct hyperplasia, and lymphocyte infiltration. All hepatobiliary scintigraphy elements increased significantly after aflatoxin challenge. Bile acid levels and plasma enzyme concentrations of aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, alanine aminotransferase, and creatine phosphokinase all increased after aflatoxin exposure and were mostly unchanged with consumption of milk thistle. Only birds fed 10 mg/kg body weight milk thistle showed significant reductions in lactate dehydrogenase, alanine aminotransferase, and creatine phosphokinase concentrations after aflatoxin exposure. Our results show that consumption of milk thistle is not associated with hepatoprotective effects against acute B1 aflatoxin exposure in pigeons.
40236584|An adult female Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) was evaluated for a 10-day history of progressive ataxia and weakness. The bird had been exposed intermittently over a 3-day period to a cage that had previously housed juvenile raccoons. Results of diagnostic tests were inconclusive and, despite supportive care, the bird died 7 days after the initial presentation. Histopathologic examination revealed a single nematode larva in the midbrain that was consistent with Baylisascaris species and multifocal granulomas in the left ventricle of the heart. The neurologic disease in this bird was attributed to encephalitis caused by neural larval migration of the raccoon roundworm, Baylisascaris procyonis.
41318126|We describe the successful treatment of a tarsometatarsal fracture in a mature bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) using a locking compression plate as an external fixator. The anatomy of the area (inelastic dermis and minimal subcutaneous space) and the high forces placed on a fracture at that site necessitated a unique approach to fixation. The unconventional use of a locking compression plate as an external fixator was minimally invasive, well tolerated by the eagle, and provided adequate stability in opposing fracture forces. This technique may serve as a method of fixation for tarsometatarsal fractures in other large avian species.
30133226|Two 3-week-old African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus erithacus) were each presented with an impacted crop. An inappropriate diet fed to the parents and a displaced parental instinct for feeding mineral and grit to the offspring were postulated to be the causes of the crop impactions. Surgical intervention relieved both impactions and recoveries were uneventful.
27753684|Analgesia is becoming increasingly important in veterinary medicine, and little research has been performed that examined pain control in avian species. Tramadol is a relatively new drug that provides analgesia by opioid (), serotonin, and norepinephrine pathways, with minimal adverse effects. To determine the pharmacokinetics of tramadol and its major metabolite O-desmethyltramadol (M1) in eagles, 6 bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) were each dosed with tramadol administered intravenously (4 mg/kg) and orally (11 mg/kg) in a crossover study. Blood was collected at various time points between 0 and 600 minutes and then analyzed with high-performance liquid chromatography to determine levels of tramadol and M1, the predominate active metabolite. The terminal half-life of tramadol after intravenous dosing was 2.46 hours. The maximum plasma concentration, time of maximum plasma concentration, and terminal half-life for tramadol after oral dosing were 2156.7 ng/ml, 3.75 hours, and 3.14 hours, respectively. In addition, the oral bioavailability was 97.9%. Although plasma concentrations of tramadol and M1 associated with analgesia in any avian species is unknown, based on the obtained data and known therapeutic levels in humans, a dosage of 5 mg/kg PO q12h is recommended for bald eagles. Pharmacodynamic studies are needed to better determine plasma levels of tramadol and M1 associated with analgesia in birds.
40236516|A 4-week-old female Northern goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) presented with a valgus deformity of both wings resulting in dorsolateral rotation of the primary flight feathers. The condition resolved in 2 weeks after the wings were bandaged and physical therapy was performed. This type of valgus deformity is also known as angel wing. It has been frequently described in waterfowl and has been reported in bustard chicks as well as psittacine birds (budgerigars, macaws, and conures). To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first report in a peer-reviewed publication describing angel wing and its treatment in a raptor.
40236552|A health assessment of the captive island population of Guam rail (Gallirallus owstoni) included a review of pathology records, diet analysis, and physical examination and diagnostic findings in prerelease and captive breeding populations (n = 100 and n = 55, respectively). The general health of domestic chickens (n = 50) on Guam and Rota was also assessed. For rails, diagnostic tests included a complete blood count, plasma biochemical analysis, plasma protein electrophoresis, genus- specific plasma enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) for Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) antigen, arboviral serologic testing, culture for enteric pathogens (Salmonella and Campylobacter species) and Mycobacterium species, fecal examination for parasites, and genus-specific polymerase chain reaction assay for fecal MAC antigen. For chickens, diagnostic tests included arboviral serologic tests and fecal culture for enteric pathogens and Mycobacterium species. Results of testing in the rails were negative for arboviral seroconversion, enteric pathogens, and fecal parasites. Results of screening tests in prerelease rails for Mycobacterium species revealed 16% positive by fecal culture for Mycobacterium species, 0% positive by genus-specific fecal polymerase chain reaction testing for MAC antigen, and 23% seroprevalence by ELISA for genus-specific MAC antigen. Of the 16 positive mycobacterial cultures, 14 (88%) were identified as MAC and 2 (12%) were identified as non-MAC isolates. In chickens, results showed no arboviral seroconversion, no enteric pathogen shedding, and 11% prevalence of fecal non-MAC bacteria.
41496980|To determine the plasma concentration of clindamycin in pigeons after oral administration, 12 rock pigeons (Columba livia) were used in a 2-phase study. In the first phase, 8 pigeons received clindamycin by gavage at 100 mg/kg as a single dose. Blood samples were collected at 0, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours, and the plasma was separated, frozen, and subsequently analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry for clindamycin and its active metabolites, N-demethylclindamycin (NCLD) and clindamycin sulfoxide. Clindamycin was rapidly absorbed with plasma concentrations peaking at 0.5 hours at 1.43 g/mL. The terminal half-life (t 1/2 ) was 1.25 hours, and the mean residence time was 2.49 hours. N demethylclindamycin was detected in 7 of 8 birds (88%), whereas clindamycin sulfoxide was not found in any samples. In phase 2, clindamycin was administered to 3 birds by gavage at 100 mg/kg q6h for 5 doses. Mean peak plasma concentrations were 2.46 and 0.64 g/mL, with trough concentrations of 0.11 and 0.44 g/mL for clindamycin and NCLD, respectively. No adverse effects were observed in any birds. Based on an additive antimicrobial effect of NCLD with clindamycin, an oral dosage of 100 mg/kg q6h in pigeons should reach effective plasma concentrations against common susceptible pathogens. If dose proportionality exists, lower doses and longer intervals likely produce subtherapeutic concentrations to treat systemic infections. How well birds would tolerate an extended oral dose regimen, how frequently birds fail to produce the active metabolite critical for an additive effect, and the application of these results to other avian species require further study.
30130718|A 3-year-old male nanday conure (Nandayus nenday) was presented with acute lethargy, polyuria, and polydipsia. Marked persistent hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and ketonuria were also noted. The serum insulin concentration (<3 U/ml) was lower than reference ranges described for other psittacine birds. Initial treatment included insulin, antibiotics, and supportive care. Insulin therapy was adjusted based on results of serial blood glucose curves. Histopathologic examination of pancreatic biopsy samples revealed normal exocrine pancreatic tissue with rare lymphoplasmocytic infiltrates and absence of pancreatic islets, suggesting atrophy of endocrine pancreatic tissue. Resolution of clinical signs and a normalized blood glucose curve were obtained after administration of long-acting insulin (0.3 IU/kg IM AM and 0.25 IU/kg IM PM). One month after initial presentation, the conure was admitted for severe dyspnea and lethargy and died despite supportive care. Histopathologic examination of the pancreas revealed nearly total depletion of the endocrine pancreas with moderate lymphoplasmocytic pancreatitis. Immunohistochemical evaluation of the remaining pancreatic islets was negative for the presence of insulin and positive for glucagon. Results of polymerase chain reaction tests for Chlamydophila psittaci performed on tissues from the liver, spleen, and lung were negative. Transmission electron microscopy did not demonstrate viruses. Clinical and pathological findings observed in this case are consistent with insulin-dependant type 1 diabetes.
30135261|From 1998 to 2001, a total of 3760 falcons were presented to the Falcon Medical Research Hospital of the Fahad bin Sultan Falcon Center. From this total, 11 (0.3%) adult (>1-year-old) falcons, including 8 saker falcons (Falco cherrug), 2 peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus), and 1 lanner falcon (Falco biarmicus), were admitted for treatment of candidiasis. Affected falcons showed general clinical signs including reduced to total absence of appetite, shredding and flicking of food, regurgitation, and progressive weight loss. The diagnosis of clinical candidiasis was made from clinical signs, endoscopic examination of the upper digestive tract, histologic observation of typical Candida albicans blastospores on samples obtained from the crop, and positive fungal cultures. Therapy consisted of applying a miconazole gel directly to the thoracic esophagus and crop twice daily for 5 consecutive days. Miconazole proved to be an effective, fast, and inexpensive antifungal agent suitable for the treatment of candidiasis in captive falcons.
30130695|Nectarivorous birds are those that rely predominantly on the products of flowering trees and shrubs for food. Australian avian nectarivores include honeyeaters of the family Meliphagidae and lorikeets and swift parrots (Lathamus discolor) of the family Psittacidae. Nectar is a sugar-rich, liquid food source that provides abundant amounts of energy for birds that are able to harvest it. However, it contains very low levels of amino acids, vitamins, and trace minerals necessary for avian maintenance, growth, and reproduction. Therefore, birds classified as nectarivores need to forage for other food resources. Manna, honeydew, and lerp are common food sources for a variety of honeyeaters and nectarivorous parrots; these foods are high in carbohydrates and low in protein, similar to nectar. Pollen protoplasm is composed of highly digestible protein and contains a diverse amino acid profile; however, only 3 Australian species of psittacine birds have been recorded engaging in active pollen harvesting. Insects are thought to be the main source of protein for nectarivores. Nectarivorous birds have developed a variety of morphologic and physiologic adaptations. Morphologic adaptations to nectarivory include changes in body size, plumage, beak and tongue structure, and the alimentary organs. The physiology of nectarivory is still poorly understood, but there are indications that adaptations may include lowered metabolic rates, lowered protein requirements, and changes in digestive and renal physiology. Considerable work is needed to illuminate the specific nutritional requirements of nectarivores for maintenance, growth, and reproduction.
27823393|Mississippi sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis pulla) are a highly endangered species that live in the wild in 1 county in Mississippi. As part of a large effort to restore these endangered cranes, we are conducting a project to look at the causes of mortality in crane chicks on the Mississippi Sandhill Crane National Wildlife Refuge in Gautier, MS, USA. This includes surgically implanting miniature radio transmitters in crane chicks to gather data on mortality. This article describes some of the practical difficulties in conducting this type of project in a savannah and swamp location along the Gulf Coast of the USA.
27823434|Knemidocoptes mutans, commonly known as the scaly-leg mite, causes disease in various avian species. In a peep of bantam chickens, proliferative skin lesions were observed on the shanks of 6 of 29 birds, with digit necrosis observed in some birds. Histologic examination of the necrotic digits revealed Knemidocoptes species in the stratum corneum. No new cases of scaly-leg mite infection occurred in the flock after administration of ivermectin, and treatment halted the progression of the disease process in infected chickens. This case report documents that severe Knemidocoptes infection can be associated with digit necrosis in chickens.
30133166|With the advent of high-stakes races and intense competition of homing pigeons (Columba livia), pigeon aviculturists are turning to veterinary support to improve performance of their racing teams. Veterinarians are now being sought to diagnose and treat specific diseases that may limit performance. Husbandry practices and viral diseases were discussed in Part I of this report. In Part II, diagnosis and treatment of bacterial, mycotic, and parasitic diseases are reviewed. Among the bacterial species that cause disease, Salmonella typhimurium var. copenhagen, Escherichia coli, and a group of bacteria that are associated with chronic respiratory disease are frequently implicated in poor performance. Candidiasis is the primary mycosis affecting young homing pigeons. A myriad of parasitic diseases including coccidiosis, trichomoniasis, helminthiasis, hematozoanosis, and ectoparasitisms also contribute to poor race performance.
30133120|Diagnostic tests to detect evidence of infection with Chlamydia psittaci in live birds include culture, serologic testing, immunoassays, and gene-based tests. Comparing results of the various diagnostic tests is difficult because different values are measured. Controlled studies of chlamydial infections in birds rely on information collected at predetermined intervals after the date of initial infection, whereas clinicians frequently cannot determine when an initial infection occurred in an avian patient. Culture is considered the gold standard of these tests, but it is the most difficult and labor-intensive test to perform. Results of serologic tests will vary because of the length of time a bird has been infected, host characteristics, and the concentrations of circulating immunoglobulins. Immunoassays will fail to detect chlamydial organisms if infected birds are not shedding chlamydia at the time of sampling. Results of immunoassays are also affected by cross-reactions with interfering antigens and the number of chlamydial organisms that are present in samples. Genebased diagnostic testing may prove more sensitive than culture, depending on the sample type, but comparison studies in birds have not been published. Any live bird assay may fail to detect patient infection because of the complex biology of Chlamydia psittaci.
30136903|An adult female rainbow lorikeet (Trichoglossus haematodus haematodus) was presented with an acute onset of vomiting and melena. Fecal cytology and fecal Gram stain confirmed the presence of erythrocytes and bacteria morphologically similar to clostridia. Clostridium tertium was cultured from the feces. Leukocytosis with moderate absolute heteropenia, absolute lymphocytosis, and toxic immature heterophils was observed on the complete blood count. Plasma biochemistry analysis included mild hyperuricemia and metabolic alkalosis. The most significant radiographic abnormalities included proventricular filling defects, intestinal dilatation, and gas accumulation in the gastrointestinal tract. All radiographic changes were believed to be secondary to bacterial infection. Clostridial enteritis was tentatively diagnosed and successfully treated with antibiotics and supportive care. Clostridium tertium infection was hypothesized to have originated from the combination of a contaminated water source, a high carbohydrate diet, and a lack of adequate sanitation. No further clinical problem occurred after implementation of husbandry recommendations.
30134215|Although breeding of companion birds has become increasingly popular over the last decades, evaluating avian fecundity is rarely addressed and remains a challenge. Whereas histologic examination of a testicular biopsy sample is useful in evaluating reproductive status, as well as in identifying pathologic changes, cytologic examination is a much quicker method and is less invasive. To determine if cytologic examination of testicular impression smears is reliable compared with histologic examination in assessing reproductive status, we evaluated results in 16 live and in 14 dead male budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus). In most birds, macroscopic evaluation, combined with histologic or cytologic examination, resulted in a consistent grading of testicular reproductive stage. However, some testes assessed as inactive macroscopically showed advanced reproductive stage on histologic examination. Although a single biopsy caused no permanent damage to the testes and did not impact the general health status of the examined birds, repeated endoscopic examination resulted in testicular cicatrization or adhesions with the air sacs. In addition, some birds had delayed recovery after endoscopy. A biopsy of 1 testis done once or even repeatedly during a 1-year period had no impact on sperm production or quality.
40236551|Many species of birds kept in captivity must be rendered flightless to prevent escape from open enclosures. In this study, we evaluated the use of diode laser and cryosurgery as methods of ablating primary feather follicles in domestic pigeons (Columba livid). In group 1 birds (n = 6), primary feather 10 of both wings was treated with the diode laser (10 W, 2 seconds) and primary feather 6 was treated with the cryoprobe (5 seconds, 3 cycles). In group 2 birds (n = 6), primary feathers 10 and 6 were treated with the cryoprobe for 20 and 30 seconds, respectively, for 3 cycles. In all birds, primary feather 8 on both wings was manually pulled as the control follicle. Results showed that in group 1 birds, diode laser ablation prevented feather regrowth in 83% of follicles, however, freezing with the cryoprobe for 5 seconds did not prevent feather regrowth. In group 2 birds, treatment with the cryoprobe prevented feather regrowth at 100% and 42% of the treated sites (treatment times of 20 and 30 seconds, respectively). Significant tissue swelling and edema were observed in all group 2 birds. On histologic examination, follicle damage was most severe at the laser-treated sites in group 1 birds and at the 20-second freezing sites in group 2 birds, which correlated with the prevention of feather regrowth. The control follicles and follicles adjacent to treated areas in both groups were histologically normal. Feather follicle ablation with both the diode laser and the cryoprobe are effective in preventing feather regrowth; however, success with the cryoprobe depends on the ability of the probe to directly contact the feather follicle. Diode laser is a superior technique because it is faster, easier to perform, and causes minimal tissue damage.
30135233|Microsporidian keratoconjunctivitis was diagnosed in the right eye of a young double yellow-headed Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala oratrix). Previously, the bird's left eye had been enucleated because of fungal endophthalmitis. Clinical signs of the keratoconjunctivitis included corneal opacities and blepharospasm. Corneal scrapings demonstrated 1-2-m, gram-positive organisms, and results of a corneal biopsy confirmed the presence of microsporidia. Treatment with oral albendazole and topical ophthalmic fumagillin was curative. Because animals can act as carriers of microsporidian organisms, we feel avian veterinarians need to be aware of this potential zoonotic concern.
40984805|Prerelease reconditioning improves the chance of survival of rehabilitating raptors. Reconditioning may also help to rehabilitate waterfowl, including those that are threatened or endangered, especially if the birds are released during periods of migration. A flying harness, crance, remote-controlled launcher, and portable tower were used to create a means of reconditioning a rehabilitating 5-month-old female wild mallard duck (Anas platyrhynchos) that had been housed in a rehabilitation center for 7 weeks while recovering from an injury. Pre-and postflight serum lactate levels, body condition index scores, and controlled flight distances were used to assess the bird's degree of conditioning. Postflight serum lactate levels never returned to preflight levels and were not deemed a reliable indicator of physical fitness. However, the mallard showed an increase in endurance and strength as well as improved body condition index scores over the course of the reconditioning program.
41826562|A population approach was used to evaluate the pharmacokinetic parameters of 3 fluoroquinolones administered to Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica). Healthy adult quail (n = 50) were divided into 3 groups, each administered a separate intravenous and oral dose of the compounded drug: enrofloxacin at 10 mg/kg (n = 18; 9 male, 9 female), danofloxacin at 10 mg/kg (n = 12; 6 male, 6 female), and marbofloxacin at 5 mg/kg (n = 20; 10 male, 10 female). A fourth group was used as a control (n = 5). Enrofloxacin was metabolized extensively to ciprofloxacin, while no metabolites of either danofloxacin or marbofloxacin were detected. The volume of distribution was high, greater than 1 in all cases, and highest for danofloxacin, followed by enrofloxacin, then marbofloxacin. The total body clearance was higher in quail than that reported for other avian species with the exception of ostriches. As in mammals, the lowest clearance rate of the 3 fluoroquinolones was observed for marbofloxacin. Enrofloxacin was absorbed most rapidly, followed by marbofloxacin, then danofloxacin. The highest bioavailability was observed for danofloxacin followed by marbofloxacin, while very low bioavailability with significant conversion to ciprofloxacin was observed for enrofloxacin. Population analysis showed low intersubject variability for danofloxacin and marbofloxacin in contrast to that for enrofloxacin and its main metabolite, ciprofloxacin. Because of their more favorable pharmacokinetic properties after oral administration, either danofloxacin or marbofloxacin appears to be preferable to enrofloxacin for the treatment of susceptible bacterial infection in Japanese quail.
40236482|A 7-year-old male eclectus parrot (Eclectus roratus) was presented for evaluation of acute onset of dyspnea, tachypnea, and lethargy. Proventricular dilatation was observed on survey radiographs. Contrast fluoroscopic examination revealed decreased gastrointestinal motility and retention of contrast material in the proventriculus. Despite supportive care, the bird died. At necropsy, a tubular diverticulum of the ventriculus extended orad into the proventriculus. This diverticulum caused almost complete obstruction of proventricular outflow. No inflammation, infectious organisms, or neoplasia were associated with the lesion. The cause of the ventricular diverticulum in this parrot is unknown.
41826547|Although abnormalities in blood glucose concentrations in avian species are not as common as they are in mammals, the inability to provide point-of-care glucose measurement likely results in underreporting and missed treatment opportunities. A veterinary glucometer that uses different optimization codes for specific groups of animals has been produced. To obtain data for a psittacine bird-specific optimization code, as well as to calculate agreement between the veterinary glucometer, a standard human glucometer, and a laboratory analyzer, blood samples were obtained from 25 Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) in a 2-phase study. In the initial phase, blood samples were obtained from 20 parrots twice at a 2-week interval. For each sample, the packed cell volume was determined, and the blood glucose concentration was measured by the veterinary glucometer. The rest of each sample was placed into a lithium heparin microtainer tube and centrifuged, and plasma was removed and frozen at  30C. Within 5 days, tubes were thawed, and blood glucose concentrations were measured with a laboratory analyzer. The data from both procedures were used to develop a psittacine bird-specific code. For the second phase of the study, the same procedure was repeated twice at a 2-week interval in 25 birds to determine agreement between the veterinary glucometer, a standard human glucometer, and a laboratory analyzer. Neither glucometer was in good agreement with the laboratory analyzer (veterinary glucometer bias, 9.0; level of agreement, -38.1 to 56.2; standard glucometer bias, 69.4; level of agreement -17.8 to 156.7). Based on these results, the use of handheld glucometers in the diagnostic testing of Hispaniolan Amazon parrots and other psittacine birds cannot be recommended.
41497487|A 12-year-old female black-masked lovebird (Agapornis personata) with a cobalt color mutation was presented for self-mutilation of a mass located on the right lateral neck. Cytologie evaluation of the soft tissue mass revealed a predominance of poorly stained mast cells with metachromatic intracytoplasmic granules. The presumptive diagnosis was cutaneous mast cell tumor. Clinical evaluation, results of a complete blood cell count and biochemical analysis, and radiographs did not reveal systemic manifestation of mast cell disease. The mass was surgically resected, but surgical margins were limited because of the location of the mass and the small size of the patient. The lovebird died the day after surgery. Gross postmortem examination revealed splenomegaly, multifocal pinpoint white nodules throughout the liver parenchyma, severe thickening and yellow coloration of the great vessels, and pale pink swelling of the caudal right kidney. Histopathologic analysis of the resected mass revealed sheets of round cells that contain metachromatic granules, defined as neoplastic mast cells, within a fine fibrovascular stroma. Similar neoplastic cells were seen in the right kidney, hepatic sinusoids, splenic pulp, periovarian connective tissue, and bone marrow. The histopathologic diagnosis was a cutaneous mast cell tumor and disseminated mast cell disease, or mastocytosis. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of a cutaneous mast cell tumor and mastocytosis in a psittacine bird.
27753671|Diagnostic assays that use polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods are increasingly available to veterinarians. Psittacine beak and feather disease virus (family Circoviridae, genus Circovirus) is a pathogen of clinical importance for which PCR assays have been developed. Several laboratories offer this diagnostic assay in the United States; however, there is little information on the sensitivity, specificity, or accuracy of these assays. In this study, known positive (n = 10) and negative (n = 10) samples were sent to 5 commercial laboratories. Accuracy was 100% for 2 laboratories, 95% for 2 laboratories, and 71% for 1 laboratory; the accuracy of the latter laboratory was affected because of a specificity of 20%. These results suggest that although the results from most laboratories are highly accurate, both false-positive and false-negative results are occasionally reported by at least 2 laboratories. These results also suggest that at least 1 laboratory may be generating large numbers of false-positive results.
41318151|The purpose of this study was to examine the validity of albumin determinations in penguin plasma by the bromcresol green (BCG) method and the gold standard of protein electrophoresis (EPH). Plasma from 96 clinically normal and abnormal penguins (Spheniscus species) was analyzed. The 2 methods did not yield equivalent results. The BCG method underestimated the albumin level in samples from normal patients (indicated by a normal albumin: globulin ratio) and overestimated the albumin level in samples from clinically abnormal penguins (indicated by a decreased albumin : globulin ratio). After EPH of plasma samples from clinically abnormal penguins samples was performed to separate albumin and globulin fractions, the globulins exhibited marked binding to the BCG dye. There were no significant differences between the variable reaction of paired serum and plasma samples when using the BCG method. These results demonstrated marked differences in the determination of albumin levels when using the BCG method and protein EPH. They further demonstrated that the BCG method can provide erroneous results, which have the potential to significantly impact clinical diagnosis and treatment. This study confirmed findings from previous studies in other avian species that the BCG method yields unreliable results in avian species. It is our conclusion that the BCG method, commonly found on automated analyzers in commercial laboratories and on point-of-care analyzers, should not be used to determine albumin concentration in avian samples.
27823399|Hypothermia during general anesthesia of avian species can be life threatening and can develop even when supplemental heat is provided. To compare the change in core body temperature in avian patients anesthetized with different anesthetic delivery systems, we monitored the core body temperature of 12 pigeons (Columba livia) during isoflurane anesthesia delivered by 3 commercially available anesthetic systems: a circle system attached to a mechanical ventilator producing heated air, a nonrebreathing circuit with a mechanical ventilator delivering nonheated air, and a Bain nonrebreathing circuit. Each pigeon was anesthetized with each of the 3 anesthetic delivery systems in a randomized complete crossover trial. Mean core body temperature decreased significantly with all anesthetic delivery systems, with no significant difference between the change in core body temperature at 45 and 90 minutes among the 3 systems. With all 3 systems, the core body temperature of all pigeons remained within the range of 36.2C42.0C (97.2F107.6F). Although the mean inspired gas temperature was significantly higher with the heated-air ventilator system than with the nonheated-air ventilator and Bain nonrebreathing circuit systems, this difference did not contribute to the maintenance of the core body temperature. No one system was superior in preventing hypothermia during isoflurane anesthesia of pigeons.
27823418|Fracture malunion in a raptor can compromise muscle and tendon function and adversely affect normal activities that are essential for survival in the wild. Malunion can be acutely corrected by osteotomy techniques followed by bony fixation that provides sufficient stability to allow unimpeded healing with minimal soft-tissue injury. We describe an adult bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) that was presented after being found in poor body condition and unable to fly. Radiographs revealed a healing middiaphyseal fracture and a recent distal fracture of the right ulna and a right distal tibiotarsal varus malunion. The ulnar fractures healed without medical intervention; however, surgical correction of the malunion was required. An open-wedge corrective osteotomy was performed and a Type 1A hybrid external skeletal fixator was used to stabilize the osteotomy. The osteotomy healed and the eagle was returned successfully to the wild.
30134201|Rotational limb deformity due to tibiotarsal rotation can affect captive-bred houbara bustard chicks (Chlamydotis macqueenii) from an early age. If not completely corrected, the affected birds can neither be released into the wild nor used in captive-breeding projects. A nonsurgical orthopedic method was developed to correct this deformity before growth is completed. The method consists of hobbling digits III and the distal part of the tarsometatarsus of each leg with a self-adhesive conforming bandage that keeps digits III parallel with enough freedom of movement to allow walking. The tibiotarsal bones are left free. This treatment was successful when it was implemented for 20 days on 10-day-old houbara bustard chicks presenting with 60 to 90 unilateral tibiotarsal rotation. Implementing the same corrective method at an older age was not successful. This cheap, accessible, and noninvasive technique may be applicable to other avian species.
30134871|The relative sensitivity of conventional assays of liver function was evaluated in comparison with galactose clearance, a test of liver function used in humans since the 1960s. Results of galactose clearance tests were compared with plasma enzyme concentrations and serum bile acid levels in clinically normal galahs (Eolophus roseicapillus; n = 8), after celiotomy (n = 4), and after 6% or 18% hepatectomy (n = 8, respectively). Clearance tests and biochemical analyses were performed within 2-4 hours of surgery and at 4 and 7 days after surgery. Celiotomy and 6% and 18% hepatectomy resulted in changes in alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase concentrations that were consistent with muscle trauma. Celiotomy and 6% hepatectomy did not significantly alter the results of galactose clearance tests; however, 18% hepatectomy resulted in significant reduction in galactose clearance and galactose clearance as a function of body surface area (GEC-SA). Galactose single-point concentrations were not significantly elevated at any time during the experiments; however, single-point concentrations were strongly correlated with galactose clearance and GEC-SA values, especially at 80 minutes after galactose injection. Serum bile acid levels were not significantly elevated after celiotomy or partial hepatectomy. Measurement of galactose single-point concentrations has the potential to be a simple, sensitive method of screening for reduced hepatic function in birds. Galactose clearance and GEC-SA have the potential to be sensitive assays of hepatic functional mass, for use as a noninvasive method of monitoring hepatic function.
30135178|The biological functions of thyroid hormone in birds are similar to those in mammalian species, and include control of basal metabolic rate, differentiation and development of the central nervous system, development and growth of muscles and bone in utero and post-natally, and control of reproductive function. Diurnal and seasonal fluctuations in thyroid hormone levels make interpretation of thyroid function tests difficult in birds. There are multiple tests available in veterinary medicine for the evaluation of thyroid function. However, most of these techniques have not been validated for birds. The most commonly used tests are those that measure the level of thyroid hormone in serum. Serum levels of thyroid hormone are measured either as resting levels, or after parenteral administration of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) (provocative testing). Provocative testing of thyroid function is the most accurate means of determining disorders of the thyroid gland in avian species. Standardization of the TSH response test in individual laboratories is necessary for clinically reliable interpretation of test results. Disorders of the avian thyroid gland include autoimmune thyroiditis in Obese strain chickens, and goiter in budgerigars fed a diet deficient in iodine. Hypothyroidism has been definitively diagnosed once in a scarlet macaw that had a normal resting level of thyroxine for psitticine birds, but exhibited decreased functional response to TSH on provocative testing. Resting levels of thyroid hormone in avian species should be interpreted judiciously when diagnosing thyroid disorders in birds.
30133204|An 8-week-old male monk parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus) was presented with hyperextension of the right femorotibial joint. A craniolateral luxation of the right tibiotarsus was observed radiographically. A new surgical repair technique was applied. Intramedullary pins were normograded into the femur and tibiotarsus from the knee. These pins were joined with an acrylic fixator at the exit from the joint with the leg placed in normal anatomic position. This technique and physical therapy resulted in repair of the luxation, normal range of motion, and full return to function of the femorotibial joint.
30134505|Severe bile duct hyperplasia with bridging hepatic fibrosis was identified in four Amazon parrots (Amazona spp.) with hepatomegaly. Clinical signs included regurgitation, dyspnea, yellow urates, and abdominal distention. Three birds in which clinical pathologic data were obtained had high aspartate transaminase activity, hypercholesterolemia, and high bile acid concentrations. Histologic features included diffuse hyperplasia of bile ducts, bridging fibrosis, and mild heterophilic hepatitis. The two birds diagnosed clinically responded to palliative treatment including amoxicillin, lactulose, and dietary changes with gradual improvement in behavior and clinical laboratory values. The underlying cause of this syndrome remains unclear; exposure to hepatotoxins is probable, although an undetected infectious agent is possible. The notable severity of bile duct hyperplasia and hepatic fibrosis in Amazon parrots may indicate a unique sensitivity of this genus to hepatotoxins or hepatic injury. Severe bile duct hyperplasia may precede bile duct neoplasia in Amazon parrots.
30135263|This report describes lower respiratory tract disease in 3 African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus), 1 orange-winged Amazon parrot (Amazona amazonica), 1 yellow-headed Amazon parrot (Amazona oratrix), and 1 Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis). All birds had lower respiratory tract disease caused by Aspergillus fumigatus, Streptococcus pyogenes, or Staphylococcus aureus and confirmed by clinical, hematologic, radiographic, and microbiological evaluations. All the respiratory infections were poorly responsive to, or recurred after, conventional medical therapies. A novel technique is described that is a minimally invasive endosurgical procedure for debriding and ablating air sac granulomas with a rigid 2.7-mm telescope and class IV gallium-aluminum-arsenide diode laser. Under isoflurane anesthesia, granulomas were debulked and removed prior to laser ablation of the infected areas. Four of the 6 birds made uneventful recoveries after the procedure. Two African grey parrots died during or shortly after surgery because of disseminated aspergillosis. Necropsy examinations of the 2 deceased birds failed to demonstrate any iatrogenic endoscope or laser damage. In conclusion, endoscopic debridement and laser ablation offers a viable alternative to conventional surgery in the management of lung and air sac granulomas in psittacine birds.
24623891|To determine the dosage of enrofloxacin in southern crested caracaras (Caracara plancus), plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography after intravenous (IV) (5 mg/kg) and intramuscular (IM) (10 mg/kg) administration. This compound presented a relatively high volume of distribution (2.09 L/kg), a total body clearance of 0.24 L/kgh, and a long permanence as shown by an elimination half-life of 7.81 hours after IV administration and a terminal half-life of 6.58 hours after IM administration. The areas under the concentration-time curves (AUC) were 21.92 and 34.38 gh/mL for IM and IV administration, respectively. Enrofloxacin was rapidly absorbed after IM administration with a time to reach maximum concentration of 0.72 hours and bioavailability of 78.76%. After IM administration, the peak drug concentration (Cmax) was 3.92 g/mL. Values of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC), Cmax, and AUC have been used to predict the clinical efficacy of a drug in treating bacterial infections, with a Cmax/MIC value of 10 and an AUC/MIC ratio of 125250 associated with optimal bactericidal effects. By using the study data and a MIC breakpoint of 0.25 g/mL, values of Cmax/MIC were 13.74 and 15.94 and for AUC/MIC were 90.73 and 139.63, for the IV and IM routes respectively. For the treatment of infectious diseases caused by microorganisms with MIC 0.25 g/mL, the calculated optimal dosages were 7.5 and 9.5 mg/kg q24h by the IV and IM routes, respectively. For less susceptible bacteria, a dose increase should be evaluated. To treat caracara by the IV route against microorganisms with MIC 0.25 g/mL, the dose should be higher than the 5 mg/kg used in our study, but possible side effects derived from an increase in the IV dose and efficacy in sick birds should be assessed.
30134476|A retrobulbar mass, seen on physical and radiographic examination, caused ventrolateral deviation and exophthalmia of the left eye of an 11-year-old, male, yellow-naped Amazon parrot. Ultrasonography revealed a poorly vascularized hypoechoic mass that was continuous through the expanded optic foramen with a mass within the cranial cavity. In addition to unilateral exophthalmia, left eye chemosis, localized pruritus, corneal ulceration, ocular discharge, and apparent blindness were present. The bird was polyuric, polydipsic, thin, and depressed. Hematologic findings included a normal white blood cell count and a mild regenerative anemia. Plasma aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and creatinine kinase values were elevated. Cytopathologic examination of a fine needle aspirate revealed a poorly differentiated neoplasia. Supportive treatment was initiated. The tumor enlarged rapidly and the bird was euthanatized 30 days later. A pituitary adenoma was diagnosed by histopathologic examination and confirmed by electron microscopy.
30134216|Quantitative measures of corticosteroids in biological samples that can be obtained noninvasively, such as saliva, feces, and body hair, have important potential as contributing elements in assessing the quality of captive environments and the severity of experimental procedures. Egg-laying chickens may be of particular interest because the corticosterone contents of the egg may have potential as a convenient measure of preceding adrenocortical activity. To develop methods to reliably quantify corticosterone content in the egg white and yolk, corticosterone content in eggs from 15 egg-laying chickens housed in single production cages were compared with that of eggs from 15 sister chickens, group housed in 1450 cm cages equipped with bedding, straw nests, sand baths, and perches. Approximately 80% of the total amount of corticosterone in the eggs was found in the yolk, and there was a positive correlation between yolk corticosterone concentration and total egg corticosterone (r = 0.90, n = 30, P < .001). The egg white contained approximately 20% of the total amount of corticosterone, but there was no correlation between concentrations in the white and the total corticosterone content of the eggs (r = 0.003). There was no difference in the white and yolk corticosterone concentrations or total egg corticosterone between singly housed and group-housed egg-laying hens. Quantitative analyses of corticosterone concentration in eggs may assist when analyzing the stressfulness of experimental procedures and major changes to the birds' environment that affect the activity of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis.
24623516|Ocular trauma is common in birds of prey presented to wildlife clinics and rehabilitation centers. Enucleation is the procedure most commonly described for treatment of end-stage ocular disease or chronically painful eyes in birds; however, there are several disadvantages and risks to this procedure. While evisceration has been suggested as an alternative, it has not been described for multiple cases or with long-term follow-up data in birds of prey. This report details an evisceration technique performed in 5 captive birds of prey of 4 different species (1 eastern screech owl [Megascops asio], 1 great horned owl [Bubo virginianus], 2 red-tailed hawks [Buteo jamaicensis], and 1 bald eagle [Haliaeetus leucocephalus]) with long-term follow-up information. In addition, this report describes 14 cases of free-living owls of 3 different species (1 great horned owl, 4 barred owls [Strix varia], and 9 eastern screech owls) on which this technique was performed from 2004 to 2011 and which were subsequently released to the wild. Because of the limited risk of complications and the less-severe disruption of facial symmetry, which may be particularly important in owls that are candidates for release to the wild, evisceration should be considered over enucleation in birds of prey that require surgical intervention for the management of severe sequelae to ocular trauma.
27823463|A 16-year-old male grey-cheeked parakeet (Brotogeris pyrrhopterus) was presented for dyspnea and decreased activity. The bird's diet was primarily table food, with a large proportion of animal products. Radiographs revealed a linear mineralized structure in the plane of the aorta and an enlarged hepatocardiac silhouette. Left atrial and left ventricular enlargement and a left ventricular systolic dysfunction were diagnosed by echocardiography. The bird's condition progressively declined, and it died 5 days after presentation. A postmortem examination revealed marked atherosclerosis of the aorta, great vessels of the heart, and coronary arteries with myocardial degeneration, pulmonary congestion, and ascites. Little is known about the risk factors of atherosclerosis in psittacine birds, and dietary influence, if any, is not understood.
27823443|In response to multiple peracute deaths caused by herpesvirus in several pheasant species, a study was designed to determine the absorption, distribution, and linearity of acyclovir in hybrid tragopans (Tragopan caboti  Tragopan temminckii). Acyclovir was administered to 5 healthy adult tragopans, 3 males and 2 females, in a single dose of 40, 80, or 120 mg/kg PO. Blood samples were collected at 1, 2, 6, 12, and 24 hours after adminstration, and concentrations of acyclovir were measured by reverse phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with a C-8 column and ultraviolet (UV) detection. Although plasma concentrations were not linear, results from this study suggest that a dosage of 120 mg/kg PO q12h in tragopans may achieve effective plasma concentrations (1.0 g/ml) for potential treatment and prevention of herpesviral infections. However, further studies are needed to determine if this dosage is safe for repeated administration.
40793256|A 4-year-old blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva) was admitted for vocalization secondary to constipation. Saline infusion cloacoscopy revealed the presence of a 2-cm-diameter cloacolith within the coprodeum that was obstructing the rectal opening. The cloacolith was fragmented with a pair of biopsy forceps and the pieces removed. The cloacolith was subsequently analyzed and was composed of 100% uric acid salts. The bird improved completely and was able to defecate normally after the procedure. Cloacoliths are relative uncommon cloacal conditions, and this case documents cloacoscopic findings, rectal obstruction, and confirmation of its uric acid composition by urolith analysis.
27823435|A 20-year-old male cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) exhibiting dysphagia, regurgitation, and lethargy was diagnosed with invasive squamous cell carcinoma involving the crop. The neoplastic mass was closely associated with the right vagal nerve and was obstructing 80% of the crop lumen. Dysphagia appeared to be linked to nerve dysfunction resulting in ileus of the upper digestive tract. This is the first published report of squamous cell carcinoma in the crop of a psittacine species resulting in nerve dysfunction and possible vagal indigestion.
30134169|Chickens and turkeys are commonly encountered in clinical practice. Although many diseases have been reported in these domestic poultry species, certain diseases are commonly encountered in backyard chickens and turkeys. Bacterial diseases that frequently occur in backyard flocks include pasteurellosis (fowl cholera), mycoplasmosis, bordetellosis (turkey coryza), staphyloccosis, and infection with Escherichia coli. Fungal diseases, including aspergillosis and candidiasis, are usually seen as secondary infections. Viral diseases of importance include Marek's disease, lymphoid leukosis, infectious bronchitis, infectious laryngotracheitis, and pox. Lice and mites are ectoparasites that frequently cause problems, and roundworms and cestodes are commonly encountered endoparasites. Coccidiosis and histomoniasis are protozoal diseases that can cause significant problems in backyard poultry.
30134892|A 16-year-old male cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus) was diagnosed with liver disease on the basis of clinical signs, results of biochemical analyses, and radiographic evidence of hepatomegaly. The bird died shortly after a plasma transfusion while it was anesthetized for a liver biopsy. Postmortem examination revealed ascites, which was localized to the right and left ventral hepatic peritoneal cavities, forming discrete fluid-filled sacs around each lobe of the liver. This fluid had mimicked hepatomegaly radiographically; the liver was actually discolored, firm, and shrunken. Light microscopic findings were consistent with hepatic cirrhosis. The etiology of the hepatic cirrhosis was not determined.
40236531|Squamous cell carcinoma of the infraorbital sinus was diagnosed in a 5-year-old Solomon Island eclectus parrot (Eclectus roratus solomonensis) that presented with exophthalmos of the right globe and an ulcerative mass of 2-months duration at the right commissure of the beak. The mass was 2.5  2  2 cm and contained caseous exudate. The ulcerative lesion was surgically debulked, but the bird died and was submitted for necropsy. Histopathologic examination of the infraorbital sinus revealed squamous cell carcinoma with no evidence of metastasis. The trachea was heavily infiltrated with thick, septate fungal hyphae, and evidence of fungal angioinvasion was observed in the trachea and muscular layer of the crop.
24623514|Plasma agarose gel electrophoresis (AGE) is recognized as a very reliable diagnostic tool in avian medicine. Within the last 10 years, new electrophoresis techniques such as capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) have emerged in human laboratory medicine but have never been investigated in birds. To investigate the use of CZE in birds and to compare it with AGE, plasma samples from 30 roosters (Gallus gallus), 20 black kites (Milvus migrans), and 10 racing pigeons (Columba livia) were analyzed by both AGE and CZE. For the 3 species studied, values determined by AGE and CZE were well correlated for albumin and beta and gamma fractions whereas other values differed significantly. Values for alpha-3 fraction in the rooster, alpha-1 fraction in the black kite, and alpha fractions in the pigeon obtained by AGE were very well correlated with the prealbumin fraction values obtained by CZE. Repeatability and reproducibility appeared higher with CZE than with AGE. Although the interpretation of CZE electrophoresis patterns seems to produce results similar to those obtained with AGE, some proteins present in the alpha fraction measured with AGE migrated to the prealbumin fraction found with CZE. Although CZE requires the use of specific reference intervals and a much higher sample volume, this method has many advantages when compared with AGE, including better repeatability and reproducibility and higher analysis output.
30135181|Injectable anesthetic regimens produce variable results in waterfowl and are not currently used for invasive surgical procedures. This study was undertaken to identify an injectable anesthetic protocol that could produce anesthesia and analgesia for an invasive surgical procedure, with rapid recovery, in mallard ducks. Reversible anesthesia is desirable when working with freeranging waterfowl to reduce stress, prevent pair bond disruption, and reduce detrimental effects of egg cooling when females are not incubating. Thirty healthy adult mallard ducks were used in the study. The injectable drugs investigated included xylazine, medetomidine, ketamine, midazolam, butorphanol, fentanyl, sufentanil, methohexital, alphaxalone-alphadolone, and propofol. Reversal agents atipamezole and flumazenil were also examined. Drugs were administered alone or in combination by the intramuscular, intranasal, or intravenous route. Anesthetic effects were recorded, and analgesia was assessed by response to toe pinching and feather plucking. Incremental doses were given when the effect of the initial dose was poor. No anesthetic regimen was effective when administered by the intramuscular route, and intranasal administration resulted in unreliable anesthetic depth. Intravenous administration of anesthetic agents was more effective; however, few regimens provided adequate duration of anesthesia or analgesia for a surgical procedure. Intravenous administration of a medetomidine-midazolam-ketamine combination produced adequate anesthesia and analgesia of 30-minute duration, and the effects of the combination could be reversed with atipamezole and flumazenil. Administration of propofol intravenously produced smooth induction and recovery, excellent muscle relaxation, and short duration of anesthesia requiring additional boluses to prolong and maintain anesthesia.
27670705|A 25-year-old intact female orange-winged Amazon parrot (Amazona amazonica) presented for a 2-week history of straining to defecate, lethargy, open-beak breathing, decreased vocalization, and ruffled feathers. On physical examination, the parrot had a heart murmur, increased air sac and lung sounds, open-beak breathing, increased respiratory rate and effort, and coelomic distension. An ultrasound revealed intracoelomic fluid, and hemorrhagic fluid was aspirated from the coelom. Cytologic analysis indicated hemocoelom. Pericardial effusion was observed during the sonogram, and pericardiocentesis was performed. The bird was euthanatized upon the owner's request because of a poor prognosis. At necropsy, several masses that involved the ovary and oviduct were observed, as well as a thickened pericardium and a thickened, fibrinous epicardium. Results of a histopathologic examination of the masses that involved the reproductive tract revealed ovarian hemangiosarcoma, which was confirmed by immunohistochemical staining. To our knowledge, ovarian hemangiosarcoma has not been reported in a psittacine species, nor has immunohistochemistry confirmed ovarian hemangiosarcoma in avian species, specifically in an orange-winged Amazon parrot.
40236594|The Spix's macaw (Cyanopsitta spixii) is considered the world's most endangered parrot, with the last wild bird disappearing in 2001 and only 74 birds in captivity. To establish hematologic and plasma biochemical reference ranges and to look for differences relative to sex, age, and season, we obtained blood samples from 46 captive Spix's macaws (23 male, 23 female) housed in aviaries at the Al Wabra Wildlife Preservation in the State of Qatar. No significant differences in hematologic or plasma biochemical values were found between females and males. Adult and juvenile birds differed in mean concentrations of glucose, total protein, amylase, cholesterol, and phosphorus; in percentages of heterophils and lymphocytes; and in the absolute lymphocyte count. Total protein, cholesterol, and phosphorus concentrations; hematocrit; and heterophil and lymphocyte counts differed significantly by season. Baseline hematologic and plasma biochemical ranges were established, which may be useful as reference values for clinicians working with this highly endangered species.
40236525|In this study, hematologic and biochemical reference values for the critically endangered kakapo (Strigops habroptilus) were evaluated to assess the effect of blood storage, processing, and collection on interpretation of these values. The medians and variances of hematologic and biochemical parameters measured from samples collected from kakapo in 1996 and 2002 were compared. Differences in the handling and processing of samples between the 2 sampling periods contributed to significant differences in the medians for packed cell volume, hemoglobin, total protein, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, phosphorous, and creatinine. The effect of separating plasma from the cellular components of the blood at either 3.5 or 36 hours after collection was studied by using paired blood samples. Increased time between collection and separation significantly affected median concentrations of glucose, calcium, creatine kinase, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase. Gender had no significant effect on parameter medians or variances. The results of this study highlight the limitations of using reference values in wildlife medicine, where ideal collection and handling of samples in field studies may be compromised and prevent accurate interpretation of test results. Tables of hematologic and biochemical parameters means, standard deviations, plus minimum and maximum values obtained from this small population are provided for application in future health monitoring of the kakapo.
41318128|Red kites (Milvus milvus) are birds of prey known to feign death in the presence of humans. An adult wild red kite was anesthetized with isoflurane for coelioscopy. During surgery, heart rate and respiratory rate ranged from 240 to 260 beats per minute and from 16 to 28 breaths rates per minute, respectively. Pupil and corneal reflexes remained present, and body temperature was maintained at 40.4 C (104.7 F). Suppression ratio was 0 during the anesthetic episode. The bispectral index was 44 immediately after intubation, ranged from 44 to 57 during maintenance of anesthesia, and was 59 at the moment of extubation. The index increased to 85 while the kite remained immobile, which was suggestive of feigning death in sternal recumbency. Once the bird was perched upright, it immediately kept the upright position, which confirmed the correspondence of the bispectral index value (85) with a fully conscious patient. Although behavioral or cardiorespiratory variables remained unchanged, the degree of hypnosis was indicated by the bispectral index, which anticipated a possible sudden awakening episode of this bird.
30134200|The diagnosis of hepatic disease in psittacine birds by using biochemical enzyme and bile acid levels is problematic. In this study, we looked at changes in clinical enzyme concentrations, bile acid levels, and plasma protein electrophoresis results to determine whether these analytes correlate with hepatic disease. A total of 442 samples representing 8 species of psittacine birds were analyzed for levels of bile acids, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and creatine kinase (CK) and for changes in plasma protein concentrations determined by electrophoresis. Follow-up questionnaires were received from the submitting veterinarian detailing the diagnosis of the patient and whether liver disease had been confirmed by histologic examination. When the data were examined without regard to diagnosis, high clinical enzyme concentrations correlated poorly with high levels of bile acids. These results suggest that the often used corollary of high AST and normal CK concentrations as a sole screening test to evaluate hepatocellular injury is not valid. High bile acid levels had the highest association with confirmed hepatic disease, followed by high concentrations of 2-globulins, AST, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and 1-globulins.
30130681|The effect of repeat blood sampling and anesthesia on hematologic and plasma biochemical values of American kestrels (Falco sparverius) was investigated. In a validation study, blood samples from six awake kestrels were collected twice, 10 minutes apart, and results of hematologic testing and plasma biochemical analysis were compared. Of the analytes measured, only the pack cell volume (PCV) value significantly changed (decreased) in the second sample. A weight-normalized model was used to correct for the dilutional effect of the first blood collection on the second sample values. However, with correction, the decrease in the PCV value remained, suggesting that this decrease was not likely to be caused solely by sampling-induced hemodilution. In a second study of 29 kestrels, hematologic and plasma biochemical values were compared before and after 10 minutes of isoflurane anesthesia. In this comparison, significant differences were observed in the basophil count and in the values of albumin, alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, blood urea nitrogen, cholesterol, creatinine, globulin, PCV, plasma protein, potassium, total protein, and uric acid. However, after correcting for the effects of sampling dilution, only the changes in uric acid and potassium values could be attributed to the effects of anesthesia. Age, sex, and weight-related effects were also observed for selected values. Thus, the combined effect of isoflurane anesthesia and repeat blood sampling causes more dramatic changes in analyte values than repeat sampling alone. Therefore, both the method and frequency of blood sample collection in kestrels must be considered when interpreting blood values.
27670693|The author describes her fieldwork studying a population of Mackinders eagle owls that live adjacent to small-scale farms in rural Kenya. Her study investigated the effects of farming practices on the diet and breeding ecology of the owls. She documented local people's attitudes toward owls since owls are taboo throughout Africa. She describes a typical day in the field, the community aspect of her project, her unique experiences studying owls in Kenya, and promotion of owl tourism.
30133091|We examined the pharmacokinetic disposition of itraconazole and its active metabolite, hydroxyitraconazole, in blue-fronted Amazon parrots (Amazona aestiva aestiva) on days 1 and 14 of treatment with itraconazole at two different dosages (5 or 10 mg/kg PO q24h). Itraconazole from commercially available capsules was dissolved in 0.1 N HCl, diluted with orange juice, and gavaged with food. The plasma concentration of itraconazole did not change with repeated dosing at 5 mg/kg over 14 days, but was increased by the last day of administration at 10 mg/kg. Both dosages achieved plasma concentrations that equal or exceed the minimum inhibitory concentration for most Aspergillus species. The plasma concentration of the parent drug and the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve were higher at the 5 mg/kg dose in the Amazon parrots when compared with concentrations achieved in pigeons in a previous study. Although tissue concentrations of drug were not determined in our study, these results may reflect either greater gastrointestinal absorption or less distribution to tissues in the Amazon parrots compared with pigeons. Our study suggests that therapeutic concentrations of itraconazole should be achieved in the plasma of Amazon parrots given 5 mg/kg q24h. However, the clinician should note that failure of the avian patient to respond to this dosage may indicate that a dosage of 10 mg/kg q24h is required to achieve therapeutic concentrations in tissues that are not highly perfused.
41318138|Previous studies have validated the clinical use of opioids with k-receptor affinities for pain management in birds. Butorphanol, a k opioid receptor agonist and a  opioid receptor antagonist, is currently considered by many clinicians to be the opioid of choice for this use. However, despite studies reporting the analgesic properties of butorphanol in psittacine birds, dosing intervals have not been established for any psittacine species. The goals of this study in the Hispaniolan Amazon parrot (Amazona ventralis) were to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of butorphanol tartrate after intravenous (IV), intramuscular (IM), and oral (PO) administration and to determine the bioavailability of butorphanol tartrate after oral administration. Twelve Hispaniolan Amazon parrots were used in the study, with a complete-crossover experimental design and a 3-month period separating each part of the study. The birds were randomly assigned to 3 groups (n = 4) for each stage. Butorphanol tartrate was administered once at a dose of 5 mg/kg in the basilic vein or pectoral muscles or as an oral solution delivered via feeding tube into the crop for the IV, IM, and PO studies, respectively. After butorphanol administration, blood samples were collected at 1, 5, 15, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180, and 240 minutes for the IV and IM studies and at 5, 15, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, and 300 minutes for the PO study. Because of the size limitation of the birds, nave pooling of datum points was used to generate a mean plasma butorphanol concentration at each time point. For each study, birds in each group (n = 4) were bled 3 times after dosing. Plasma butorphanol concentrations were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry, and pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated. Butorphanol tartrate was found to have high bioavailability and rapid elimination following IM administration. In contrast, oral administration resulted in low bioavailability (< 10%), thus precluding the use of this route of administration for clinical purposes. Based on these results, in Hispaniolan Amazon parrots, butorphanol tartrate dosed at 5 mg/kg IV or IM would have to be administered every 2 and 3 hours, respectively, to maintain plasma concentrations consistent with published therapeutic levels. To our knowledge, this is the first published study presenting the pharmacokinetic analysis of butorphanol tartrate in a psittacine species as well as the first study presenting pharmacokinetic analysis of butorphanol after oral administration in any avian species.
30135215|Candling is a simple, inexpensive, and noninvasive means of monitoring avian egg quality and embryonic development before and during the incubation period. Good candling technique, coupled with knowledge of normal and abnormal features of avian eggs and embryos, can provide important information on the nutritional, genetic, and reproductive status of breeding birds, as well as information on the developmental progress and success of individual embryos. White-light candling is increasingly used by aviculturists, exotic bird breeders, and avian veterinarians for examining eggs of altricial species such as parrots; however, few training aids are available for acquiring candling skills. This project was undertaken to provide high-quality photographic views of candled eggs of orange-winged Amazon parrots (Amazona amazonica) during artificial incubation and to interpret them in terms of the underlying anatomy and physiology of the egg and developing embryo. We provide photographs of candled eggs with descriptive interpretations chronicling the normal developmental profile for days 1 through 17, as well as infertile or clear and damaged-shell views and early-stage embryonic mortality.
27823335|Twenty free-ranging spectacled eiders (Somateria fischeri; 10 male, 10 female), 11 free-ranging king eiders (Somateria spectabilis; 6 male, 5 female), and 20 female common eiders (Somateria mollissima) were anesthetized with propofol, bupivacaine, and ketoprofen for the surgical implantation of satellite transmitters. Propofol was given to induce and maintain anesthesia (mean total dose, 26.245.6 mg/kg IV), bupivacaine (210 mg/kg SC) was infused into the incision site for local analgesia, and ketoprofen (25 mg/kg IM) was given at the time of surgery for postoperative analgesia. Four of 10 male spectacled eiders and 5 of 6 male king eiders died within 14 days after surgery. None of the female spectacled or common eiders and only 1 of the 5 female king eiders died during the same postoperative period. Histopathologic findings in 2 dead male king eiders were severe renal tubular necrosis, acute rhabdomyolysis, and mild visceral gout. Necropsy findings in 3 other dead male king eiders were consistent with visceral gout. We suspect that the perioperative use of ketoprofen caused lethal renal damage in the male eiders. Male eiders may be more susceptible to renal damage than females because of behavioral differences during their short stay on land in mating season. The combination of propofol, bupivacaine, and ketoprofen should not be used to anesthetize free-ranging male eiders, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs should not be used perioperatively in any bird that may be predisposed to renal insufficiency.
30133156|A 12-year-old female blue-and-gold macaw (Ara ararauna) was presented with a 1-month history of abdominal swelling. Diagnostic tests included a complete blood count, plasma biochemical analysis, bacterial culture, cytologic examination, radiographs, coelomic and cardiac ultrasound examination, computed tomography scan, and electrocardiography. A fluid-filled multicystic mass associated with the right liver lobe was identified. The bird died during a liver biopsy. Biliary cystadenocarcinoma was diagnosed by histopathologic examination. The tumor was unusual in that some portions were black (melanotic), whereas other parts were the typical tan-brown color. The most unusual aspect of the tumor was the large (5 X 5 X 8-cm), fluid-filled, multicystic mass that extended from the right lateral liver lobe dorsally within the coelomic cavity, causing ventral and caudal displacement of most of the gastrointestinal organs.
41682477|Poor nutrition is a serious problem in captive psittacine birds. Seed-based diets are known to contain excess fat, low calcium : phosphorus ratios, and other nutrient deficiencies, whereas many consider nutritionally superior, formulated diets to be monotonous. As a result, many bird owners feed a mixture of seed, produce, and formulated diet. However, the nutritional contents of such mixed diets have rarely been evaluated. In this study, we describe the nutrient contents of diets consumed by 7 adult (> 6 years old), captive Amazon parrots offered produce (50% fresh weight), formulated diet (25%), and seed (25%). Diets consumed were deficient in calcium, sodium, and iron and contained more than the recommended amount of fat. In addition, the birds chose foods that exacerbated these imbalances. Birds offered low-seed diets (60% pellet, 22% produce, 18% seed, wet weight) consumed diets with more fat than recommended but acceptable levels of calcium and all other nutrients measured, as well as acceptable calcium : phosphorus ratios. This suggests that small quantities of seeds may not result in nutritionally imbalanced diets. Birds fed 75% formulated diet and 25% produce consumed diets within the recommendations for nearly all measured nutrients, demonstrating that owners of psittacine birds should be encouraged to supplement manufactured diets with low energy-density, fresh produce items to provide stimulation and foraging opportunities without fear of causing major nutritional imbalances.
30133157|Over a 10-year period (1986-1996), four turacos (Musophaga species and Tauraco species) at the North Carolina Zoological Park were diagnosed with acid-fast bacterial infections by histologic examination of postmortem tissues. In two turacos, the acid-fast bacteria were identified as belonging to the Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex. In the two other turacos, the acid-fast bacteria were not identified, but lesions were consistent with infection caused by Mycobacterium species. These four birds represented two-thirds of all turacos that died at this facility during the 10-year period. Clinical signs of mycobacterial infection in the turacos included the presence of soft tissue masses within the infraorbital sinuses, nasal turbinates, oral mucosa, cloaca, and abdominal musculature. On histologic examination, these masses were areas of granulomatous inflammation that contained numerous acid-fast bacterial rods. Infection with bacteria of the M. avium-intracellulare complex in two of the turacos was confirmed by radiometric culture in conjunction with a gene-specific DNA probe. Based on these findings, we recommend that mycobacteriosis should be considered as a differential diagnosis whenever soft tissue masses are identified in turacos.
40236608|A 20-year-old female blue and gold macaw (Ara ararauna) was presented with an acute onset of labored breathing and vocalization changes. Tracheoscopy revealed a stenotic tracheal lesion, which reduced the luminal diameter by approximately 75%. Tracheal resection and anastomosis was performed, and the tracheal lesion was submitted for histopathologic analysis. Postoperative therapy included antibiotic, antifungal, and anti-inflammatory medications. The trachea healed with no major complications. The histologic diagnosis was mild, focal, chronic tracheitis. The cause of the lesion was presumed to be postintubation stenosis on the basis of the normal gross appearance of the external trachea, the location of the lesion, and a recent history of general anesthesia delivered by endotracheal tube.
30130715|A geriatric male great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) that was a resident at a raptor center was presented for examination because of stridor and weight loss. Results of physical examination, diagnostic imaging, and biopsy were consistent with disseminated lymphoma involving the oropharynx, neck region (including thyroid and parathyroid glands), keel, spleen, and liver. Attempts to treat the owl with chlorambucil failed, and the owl was euthanatized 5 months later. Neoplastic cells from this owl were immunoreactive to CD-3 antibody, suggesting the lymphoma was of T-cell origin.
41318154|An adult female red-crowned parakeet (Cyanoramphus novaezelandieae) was presented for necropsy and histopathologic evaluation. The bird had died after exhibiting lameness, weight loss, respiratory signs, and hemoptysis. Postmortem radiographs revealed lesions in the diaphysis of the left femur and soft-tissue opacities in the lungs. At necropsy, the muscles of the left femur were pale and swollen, white-yellow small nodules were visible in lungs and air sacs, and the liver and other coclomic organs appeared pale. On histologic examination, areas of necrosis in the lungs were extensively infiltrated with acid-fast positive bacilli surrounded by macrophages, epithelioid cells, and giant cells. Acid-fast bacilli were also present in the left leg muscle and in granulomas in the liver, kidneys, and intestine. Fungal hyphae associated with a Splendore-Hoeppli phenomenon were visible in the left leg muscle. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction testing performed on muscle samples. Results were indicative of infection with M tuberculosis complicated by mycotic myositis. The disease in avian species is of zoonotic importance, and infected birds may be a useful sentinel for human infection.
30134894|An oviductal adenocarcinoma containing foci of osseous and myeloid metaplasia occurred in a 6-year-old female cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus). The tumor was also associated with medullary and subperiosteal hyperostosis and cyst formation involving the sternum.
27670704|An African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus) was presented with exophthalmos and a semisolid mass dorsomedial to the left eye that led to ventrotemporal deviation of the globe. Ultrasonography of the eye revealed a well-demarcated mass of cystic appearance, retrobulbar to the left eye. Cultures of samples of the mass acquired by fine needle aspiration were negative for bacteria and Mycoplasma species. Metaplasia of a periorbital gland caused by hypovitaminosis A was suspected, and vitamin A supplementation was initiated. Because of unresponsiveness to therapy, the cystic mass was surgically removed. The histologic diagnosis was adenoma. The surgical wound healed well, and no recurrence was observed 10 months later. To our knowledge, this is the first report of surgical removal of a retrobulbar adenoma in this species with the eye remaining intact and functional.
40236609|A 1-year-old male bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was admitted to the Alaska Raptor Center with abdominal distention, anemia, respiratory distress, and chronic malnourishment. Despite medical care, the eagle died. At necropsy, a large mass was found, which occupied most of the coelom. The mass displaced and compressed the viscera and was attached to the wall of the ventriculus. On histopathologic examination, the mass was diagnosed as a malignant teratoma. This is the first reported case of a teratoma in a bald eagle.
40984722|Vasectomy is done to produce infertility by surgically removing a portion of the ductus deferens from both testicles. In birds, vasectomy can be done internally or externally. Internal vasectomy is performed by severing and removing a section of the ductus deferens through bilateral celiotomy or by endoscopic-guided techniques. Vasectomy can be done externally using standard surgical procedures in those species possessing seminal glomera. In this review, the surgical techniques used to perform vasectomy in birds and the implications and applications of each technique are discussed.
41682473|The hyacinth macaw (Anodorhyncus hyacinthinus), considered the largest psittacine bird species in the world, is an endangered species, with a remaining population of approximately 6500 birds in the wild. To establish hmatologie and plasma biochemical reference ranges and to verify differences related to sex, samples from 29 hyacinth macaws (14 males, 15 females) were obtained from birds apprehended from illegal wildlife trade and subsequently housed at the Sorocaba Zoo, Brazil. No significant differences in hmatologie or plasma biochemical values were found between females and males. Compared with published reference values, differences were found in mean concentrations of total red blood cell count, corpuscular volume, corpuscular hemoglobin level, total white blood cell count, aspartate aminotransferase level, creatine kinase concentration, alkaline phosphatase concentration, and phosphorus level. Baseline hmatologie and plasma biochemical ranges were established, which may be useful as reference values for clinicians working with this endangered species in captivity or rehabilitation centers.
40793255|Intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement is a common procedure during eye examinations in birds. Differences in the IOP between avian species have been reported, which suggests the need to establish species-specific reference ranges. To determine IOP values of captive black-footed penguins (Spheniscus demersus), we obtained IOP readings with the use of a rebound tonometer by using two established calibration settings (dog and horse). No difference was seen in the IOP between the left and right eye when the horse setting was used; however, a difference was present when using the dog setting. No significant difference between the IOP of male and female penguins was seen in both eyes when the dog or horse setting was used. Rebound tonometry appears to be a safe and repeatable method to obtain IOP values in blackfooted penguins.
27823390|Radiographic records were reviewed from 1702 falcons of different species that were presented to the Falcon Specialist Hospital and Research Institute of the Fahad bin Sultan Falcon Center, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, from September 1, 1998, to March 1, 2002. The most common radiographic findings were homogeneous and nonhomogeneous increased radiopacity and localized soft-tissue densities of the lungs and air sacs, hepatomegaly, presence of lead particles or excessive amounts of sand in the gastrointestinal tract, gastrointestinal tract dilatation, and bone fractures. These findings contribute to the scant information available about health and disease of falcons in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in particular and in the Middle East in general.
30134890|Enrofloxacin is commonly used to treat bacterial infections in psittacine birds. Enrofloxacin is most effective if dosed per os or by injection, but can be delivered via medicated drinking water. The purpose of this project was to measure the plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin achieved by offering drinking water medicated with an injectable enrofloxacin formulation at 200 mg/L to 16 psittacine birds for 10 days. The birds included 6 cockatoos (Cacatua species), 4 conures (Aratinga species), 2 Senegal parrots (Poicephalus senegalus), 2 red-shouldered macaws (Ara nobilis), and 2 grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus). The injectable formulation was selected because it is readily available in most veterinary hospitals. Blood samples for plasma enrofloxacin and ciprofloxacin assay were collected at 1600-1730 hours on treatment days 2 and 4 and 0830-1000 hours on days 6 and 8. Mean plasma enrofloxacin concentrations ( SD) ranged from 0.11  0.05 to 2.00  1.43 g/ml for each bird and were 0.40 g/ml or less for 14 of 16 birds. Ciprofloxacin concentrations were below the limits of detection for all but 2 samples. This study shows that water medicated with the injectable formulation of enrofloxacin at 200 mg/L maintains plasma concentrations in psittacine birds that are adequate only for treating systemic infections caused by highly susceptible bacteria.
27823353|We retrospectively examined plasma uric acid concentrations of swift parrots (Lathamus discolor) in samples collected during a period when a suspected toxin was causing renal tubular pathologic changes. The primary aim of this study was to investigate plasma uric acid concentrations from birds with existing renal compromise on 2 levels of dietary protein. There was a significant difference in the monthly pattern of plasma uric acid concentration between the birds that died and those that remained clinically normal. Birds that were fed a high-protein ration had a significantly different monthly pattern of plasma uric acid concentration than those birds fed a low-protein ration. We then evaluated the effects of an overnight fast and subsequent feeding on plasma uric acid concentrations in swift parrots. The preprandial plasma uric acid concentration, taken after a 14-hour fast, was not significantly different from the 2- and 6-hour postprandial concentrations. To further examine the effect of diet on plasma uric acid concentration, we examined the plasma of wild swift parrots feeding on nectar, pollen, and insects and of swift parrots from a private aviculturist feeding seed and commercial lorikeet nectar food. The highest levels of plasma uric acid were those of the captive swift parrots fed the mixed nectar and seed diet; plasma uric acid concentrations of the wild birds were lower than preprandial concentrations of captive parrots. It remains unclear whether increases in plasma uric acid concentrations were a consequence of renal tubular damage or of high dietary protein levels. However, the finding of low plasma uric acid concentrations in wild birds and high concentrations in captive birds provide support for the hypothesis that dietary protein levels provided to captive birds were in excess of requirements. As nectarivores, swift parrots might have lower protein requirements than granivorous parrots. However, confirmation of this hypothesis will require nitrogen balance studies as a direct assessment of protein metabolism. We hypothesize that dietary protein levels did not induce the renal disease but might have contributed to ongoing pathologic changes in the damaged kidneys.
30133122|Suture material should stimulate minimal tissue reaction in wound healing. Tissue reaction to suture material has been studied in various mammalian species; however, the inflammatory cells of birds may react differently to suture materials than do those of mammals. The tissue reaction to five suture materials placed in the body wall of rock doves (Columba livia) was evaluated histologically. Chromic catgut, polyglactin 910, polydioxanone, monofilament nylon, and monofilament stainless steel sutures were placed in the body wall of rock doves by aseptic technique, such that all sutures were placed in each bird, and each bird served as its own control. The tissue reaction was evaluated at 3, 7, 15, 30, 60, 90, and 120 days after surgery. Chromic catgut caused a marked granulocytic inflammatory response that decreased from day 30 forward. This suture material was still present at the conclusion of the study. Polyglactin 910 produced the most intense inflammatory reaction but was the most rapidly absorbed of the materials we evaluated in this study. Polydioxanone caused minimal tissue reaction and was undergoing degradation at the end of the study. Both monofilament nylon and stainless steel caused minimal tissue reaction. These stiff, nonabsorbable materials were more likely to result in formation of seromas, hematomas, and caseogranulomas than were the absorbable materials. When selecting a suture material, various factors should be taken into consideration, including tissue reaction and absorbability. For closure of body wall incisions where a strong, slowly absorbable material causing little tissue reaction is needed, polydioxanone appears to be the best of the five materials evaluated in this study.
41682464|A 12-year-old male burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia) was presented for evaluation of a mass in the right cervical region. A thymoma was diagnosed after surgical resection and histopathologic evaluation. Extensive adherence of the thymoma to the esophagus and suspected invasion into the right jugular vein contributed to a poor postsurgical outcome. Diagnosis and treatment of thymomas in avian species is similar to that in mammals. Surgical removal of noninvasive thymomas is usually curative. Thymomas are rarely reported in avian species and this is the first report in a strigiform bird.
40984729|To investigate the prevalence of Cryptococcus in droppings from captive birds in Chile, dry droppings from 113 captive birds of various species were cultured for Cryptococcus neoformans. The yeast was recovered from 17 of the 113 samples (15% [95% confidence intervals, 8.4%-21.6%]). Other yeast organisms recovered from psittacine bird droppings were Cryptococcus albidus and Cryptococcus uniguttulatus. Secreted phospholipase has been proposed as a virulence determinant in neoformans. Phospholipase production by the egg yolk plate method, and in vitro susceptibility to fluconazole by using the disk diffusion test were performed on 17 neoformans isolates. Two of the 17 strains (11.7%) did not produce phospholipase. Two (11.7%) were resistant to fluconazole, and 5 of 17 (29.4%) were susceptible dose-dependent. The Cryptococcus species isolated from droppings from captive birds could be potential pathogens in humans.
41318139|To be considered for release, raptors undergoing rehabilitation must have recovered from their initial injury in addition to being clinically healthy. For that purpose, a good understanding of reference hmatologie values is important in determining release criteria for raptors in a rehabilitation setting. In this study, retrospective data were tabulated from clinically normal birds within 10 days of release from a rehabilitation facility. Hmatologie values were compiled from 71 red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), 54 Eastern screech owls (Megascops asio), 31 Cooper's hawks {Accipiter cooperii), 30 great-horned owls (Bubo virginianus), 28 barred owls (Strix varia), 16 bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), and 12 broad-winged hawks (Buteo platypterus). Parameters collected included a white blood cell count and differential, hematocrit, and total protein concentration. Comparisons were made among species and among previously published reports of reference hmatologie values in free-ranging birds or permanently captive birds. This is the first published report of reference values for Eastern screech owls, barred owls, and broad-winged hawks; and the first prerelease reference values for all species undergoing rehabilitation. These data can be used as a reference when developing release criteria for rehabilitated raptors.
27823431|In psittacine birds, the diagnosis of sarcocystosis is usually made on postmortem examination, and antemortem testing has been limited to muscle biopsy. We studied the applications of a serologic assay for antibody and plasma protein electrophoresis for changes in protein fractions in the antemortem diagnosis of sarcocystosis in psittacine birds. Several confirmed cases of sarcocystosis in psittacine birds were examined. To detect antibody, an indirect immunofluorescent assay was employed using Sarcocystis falcatula merozoites. Plasma samples from birds that demonstrated chronic neurologic signs had reactivity to the S falcatula antigen, and increases were found in the beta and gamma fractions by plasma protein electrophoresis. Conversely, in birds with the classic peracute onset of dyspnea and subsequent death, test results by either methodology were negative. These findings support the use of these 2 diagnostic tools as aids in the antemortem diagnosis of the nonperacute form of sarcocystosis in psittacine birds.
30135213|A 6-month-old emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae) was presented because of sudden onset of dyspnea, lethargy, anorexia, and bright green diarrhea. Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae was cultured from a venous blood sample. The emu's clinical signs resolved after treatment with enrofloxacin, procaine penicillin G, and ampicillin. The day after the emu was presented, the owner of the emu reported an intense itching sensation and swelling of her hands. Although not confirmed, the owner's lesions and favorable response to penicillin therapy suggest that her symptoms may have resulted from human erysipeloid.
30133183|In mammals, medetomidine causes reliable sedation and can be quickly and smoothly antagonized by atipamezole, allowing smooth and rapid recovery. However, doses of up to 1 mg/kg of medetomidine reportedly do not immobilize avian species. In this study, the sedative and cardiopulmonary effects of medetomidine administered intramuscularly was evaluated in 2 dosage groups (1.5 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg) of 4 domestic pigeons (Columba livia) each and 2 dosage groups (1.5 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg) of 2 yellow-crowned Amazon parrots (Amazona ochrocephala ochrocephala) each. Ten minutes after medetomidine injection, the reflex score of anesthetic level was determined in each bird, and the heart and respiratory rates were measured while birds were manually restrained. Results were compared with values obtained before sedation and 5 minutes after atipamezole injection. Although all birds showed signs of sedation, a desired reflex score for sedation was not obtained in all birds. The reflex score of sedation in domestic pigeons receiving 2 mg/kg medetomidine was not significantly lower than that of birds receiving 1.5 mg/kg, indicating no increase in sedation with the higher dose. However, the Amazon parrots that received the higher dose had a significantly lower reflex score than those that received the lower dose, indicating an increase in sedation with the higher dose. In both species and at both doses, a decrease in heart rate and in respiratory rate were observed, with no significant differences between the groups. Antagonism with atipamezole at both 2.5 and 5 times the medetomidine dose caused a smooth, rapid, and complete recovery. In these 2 species, although medetomidine did have a sedative effect and was reliably antagonized, it did not reliably induce a desirable state of sedation, even at the high doses investigated. Therefore, medetomidine alone as an anesthetic agent is not recommended for routine use in avian practice.
30133207|The partners of Alaska Wildlife and Wildfowl Conservation participated in a spectacled eider duck (Somateria fischeri) research project in the Arctic. The veterinary team assisted with capture of the ducks, followed by surgical implantation of platform transmitting terminals for satellite telemetry tracking of this threatened species. Planning, advance preparation, and teamwork were critical to the success of the project. The field surgery sites included an airplane hanger, a remote cabin, and a helicopter.
30135196|Ten galahs (Eolophus roseicapillus) were anesthetized twice with isoflurane and twice with halothane. For anesthetic induction, either isoflurane or halothane was administered by mask attached to a T-piece circuit. For maintenance, the same volatile agent was administered by mask or by endotracheal tube. Anesthesia was maintained for 60 minutes in all birds. Data were collected immediately postinduction (0 to 5 minutes of anesthesia), and comprised respiratory rate, heart rate, electrocardiogram (ECG), cloacal temperature, and venous blood gas analysis. The same measurements were then recorded at 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, and 60 minutes of anesthesia, with the exception of venous blood gas analysis, which was recorded at 20, 40, and 60 minutes of anesthesia. Both halothane and isoflurane resulted in significant (P < .05) respiratory and cardiac depression. The degree of depression was more severe with mask administration than with endotracheal tube administration of each agent. Hypothermia, hypercapnia, and ECG abnormalities were more marked with halothane than with isoflurane. We conclude that isoflurane is preferable to halothane for inhalant anesthesia in galahs, and mask administration of isoflurane is preferable to endotracheal administration of halothane.
30130669|A 4-yr-old male ostrich was examined because of 1-yr intermittent lameness of the right leg that had diminished the bird's breeding ability. No treatment had been given before examination, and no obvious lesions were seen on physical examination. Radiographic examination of the right leg revealed evidence of a subchondral cystlike lesion underlying a subchondral bone irregularity in the medial aspect of the distal tibiotarsal condyle. Injection of the right tibiotarsal joint with 12 ml of Carbocaine alleviated the lameness. Arthroscopy of the right tibiotarsal joint was attempted, but the lesion could not be fully visualized. Arthrotomy was performed, and the 4mm cystlike lesion was curetted and debrided until healthy subchondral bone was observed. The bird recovered uneventfully and 6 mo after surgery had a normal gait and normal breeding behavior.
40236480|Ten African white-backed vultures (Gyps africanus), 3 lappet-faced vultures (Torgos tracheliotus), and 6 marabou storks (Leptoptilos crumeniferus) were routinely treated for gastrointestinal parasitism with fenbendazole administered in the feed at dosages of 47-60 mg/kg for 3 days. Subsequently, all birds became depressed and anorectic. Results of hematologic testing of severely affected birds revealed profound leukopenia. Six white-backed vultures, 1 lappet-faced vulture, and 1 marabou stork died. Gross necropsy findings were minimal other than enlarged livers and spleens. On histologic examination, severe necrotizing enteritis, bacterial hepatitis, and evidence of septicemia were found. The clinical signs and necropsy findings in these birds were consistent with fenbendazole toxicosis. Fenbendazole at published doses can cause immunosuppression and secondary septicemia in some birds. Therefore, benzimidazole anthelmintics should be used with caution in certain avian species, and appropriate, broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is indicated in suspected cases of benzimidazole toxicosis.
27753690|A 3.5-year-old umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba) was presented because of the development of widely disseminated subcutaneous nodules. The diagnostic work-up included a complete blood count, plasma biochemical analysis, and whole body radiographs. Biopsy samples of the skin lesions were submitted for histopathologic evaluation, bacterial culture and sensitivity testing, immunohistochemistry staining, and acid-fast staining. The diagnosis was nonepitheliotropic cutaneous B-cell lymphoma with a leukemic blood picture. The bird was treated with a chemotherapeutic regimen consisting of vincristine and chlorambucil for 17 weeks. During treatment, the complete blood count was monitored every 13 weeks, and the plasma biochemical analysis was monitored every 34 weeks. The bird was in partial remission on week 9. On week 17, the bird became acutely ill and was fluffed, depressed, anorectic, and anemic. The chemotherapeutic regimen was discontinued. At this time, the bird had a consistent lymphocytosis but no neoplastic lymphocytes were seen in the general circulation. At week 29 the bird was in complete remission and remains in complete remission 8 years after chemotherapy was discontinued.
27823428|Bone healing of the ulna after osteotomy and fixation with a maxillofacial miniplate (Compact 1.0) was studied in feral pigeons (Columba livia). The ulna and radius were transected with an oscillating bone saw to produce a diaphyseal fracture. Two different procedures for fixation were compared. In procedure 1 (n = 6), the ulna was stabilized with a 6-hole maxillofacial miniplate. In procedure 2 (n = 4), the ulna was stabilized with the plate, and the radius was stabilized with an intramedullary 1.0 Kirschner wire. Plate distortion and bending occurred in all 6 birds with fractures that were immobilized with the plate only, and 1 plate failure was noted with subsequent synostosis. When both bones were immobilized, 2 cases of minimal plate deformation and 1 case of cortical fragment displacement occurred. Callus formation was significantly less pronounced after procedure 2 as compared with procedure 1; however, primary bone healing was not achieved with either procedure. From these results we conclude that dorsal single plating of the ulna with a 6-hole maxillofacial miniplate in experimentally induced ulnar and radial fractures in pigeons does not result in adequate stabilization.
40236503|The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of diet and L-carnitine supplementation on lipoma size and bodyweight in adult budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus). Seventeen budgerigars with naturally occurring cervical lipomas and 15 without lipomas were assigned to groups (4-6 birds/group) and fed 1 of 3 diets for a period of 102 days. The diets fed were a 100% seed mixture, a commercially produced low-fat pelleted diet, and the same pelleted diet supplemented with approximately 1000 mg/kg L-carnitine. Birds receiving pellets were also offered a small amount of seed to improve acceptance. Bodyweight and lipoma size were recorded for each bird at 2- to 4-week intervals. Bodyweight increased in all budgerigars (with and without lipomas) receiving 100%-seed diets. Of these birds, 83% gained > 10% of their initial bodyweight. Lipoma size decreased in budgerigars that were fed the pelleted diet supplemented with L-carnitine. These data suggest that feeding a 100%-seed diet may result in inappropriate weight gain in budgerigars and that the use of L-carnitine supplementation in the management of lipomas deserves further investigation.
24623890|The diagnostic evaluation of the glomerular filtration rate by urinary clearance has significant practical limitations in birds because urine is excreted together with feces. Thus, pharmacokinetic modeling of an exogenous plasma creatinine clearance could be useful for assessing renal creatinine excretion in birds. For this study, creatinine (50 mg/kg) was administered to 2 groups of 15 pigeons (Columba livia) each; in one group by the intravenous (IV) route and in the second by the intramuscular (IM) route. The time series of the plasma creatinine concentrations were analyzed by pharmacokinetic models. Body massspecific creatinine excretion was determined for IV and IM administration to be between 6.30 and 6.44 mL/min per kg, respectively. Body surface areaspecific creatinine clearance, which is related to the metabolic rate, was calculated between 0.506 and 0.523 mL/min per dm2, respectively. The results showed that IV as well as IM administration can be used for assessing renal creatinine excretion in pigeons. For practical reasons, IM administration is recommended, with the use of the Bateman function to calculate creatinine elimination.
30133106|While radiographic standards for cardiac width have been developed for commonly treated mammalian species, no such standards exist for avian species. Therefore, cardiac abnormalities in avian patients are often undiagnosed. In this study, linear multivariable equations were developed to provide a theoretical heart width in three avian species. Theoretical heart width was found to be directly related to the widths of the sternum and the thoracic cavity. With these few measurements, theoretical heart width can be calculated and compared with measured heart width.
40236514|Seventy-five percent of psittacine species, including the blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva), are classified as sexually monomorphic. However, this classification is based on the inability of the trichromatic human eye to perceive light in the near-ultraviolet spectrum. Spectrometry is a technique that enables humans to recognize the increased range of color perceived by the tetrachromatic avian eye. By using this technique, researchers have reclassified many avian species as sexually dimorphic. In this exploratory study, several body regions of 30 blue-fronted Amazon parrots (males and females) were investigated by multiple-angle spectrometry. A model was developed that enabled gender prediction with 100% accuracy based on plumage color characteristics. However, the areas that were most promising in our model (forehead and wing tip) need to be confirmed independently to exclude the possibility of type I error attributed to multiple testing.
41682463|Songbirds have emerged as attractive model systems in many areas of biological research. Notably, songbirds are used in studies of the neurobiological and neuroendocrine mechanisms that shape vocal communication, and zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) are the most commonly studied species. In these studies, some form of chemical restraint is often needed to facilitate procedures and to minimize the risk of injury during handling. To determine the minimum dose of the benzodiazepine diazepam that is adequate to achieve deep sedation across individual birds, a low dose (5 mg/kg) and a high dose (10 mg/kg) was administered intramuscularly to 20 zebra finches. Results showed that a 10 mg/kg dose of diazepam resulted in deep sedation, defined by dorsal recumbency, which was achieved in minutes and lasted for several hours. Sedation was induced without complication, because no birds displayed signs of distress during sedation or lethargy after recovery, and was adequate to permit minimally invasive surgical procedures. In addition, the duration of sedation was dose dependent, which provides additional information for researchers who seek to match the depth of sedation to their experimental requirements. Finally, complete recovery from the deeply sedated state was induced by a 0.3 mg/kg dose of the antagonist flumazenil, which enabled birds to more rapidly resume homeostatic behaviors to promote well-being and survival. Together, these results indicate that diazepam is a safe and reliable sedative for use in zebra finches and support specific recommendations to achieve rapid and reliable sedation and recovery.
24623512|Serum amyloid A (SAA) is used as an indicator of health status in many species. To investigate the possible use of SAA as a health indicator in falcons, SAA levels were measured in 259 falcons of varying species and health status. A significant increase (P < .001) in SAA concentrations was observed in falcons affected by inflammatory disease compared with healthy birds and birds with noninflammatory disease. Serum amyloid A concentrations ranged from 0.1 to 6.8 mg/L (mean [SD], 3.4  1.4 mg/L) in the healthy group, from 0.8 to 8.5 mg/L (mean [SD], 4.0  3.1 mg/L) in the group with noninflammatory disease, and from 2.3 to 137.5 mg/L (mean [SD], 47.7  29.7 mg/L) in the group with inflammatory disease. In birds with chronic pododermatitis or fungal pneumonia/airsacculitis, SAA levels remained significantly increased throughout the study period. These results indicate that SAA concentrations can be used in avian medicine to assess the health status of falcons and as a prognostic indicator of certain pathologic disease processes.
30134489|Fifteen psittacine birds with ulcerative lesions caused by automutilation of the sternum were treated. Ten birds were treated with one or a combination of several conservative treatment methods, including wound debridement, parenteral and topical antibiotic therapy, application of a topical povodine-iodine solution, laser therapy, application of an Elizabethan collar, and cage rest. Eight birds were treated by surgical resection of a 1-cm-deep section of the keel and debridement of associated necrotic tissue, followed by bandaging the wings to prevent flying for 6 weeks after surgery. Of the 10 birds treated conservatively, wound healing occurred in 2 birds, 5 birds were lost to follow-up, and 3 birds were subsequently treated surgically. Healing occurred in all eight surgically treated birds. We conclude that aggressive surgical treatment is the method of choice for treating ulcerative lesions of the sternum in psittacine birds.
27753675|Neoplasms of the skin are occasionally seen in domestic birds but are uncommon in nondomestic birds. An 8-year-old male hooded merganser (Lophodytes cucullatus) was presented with bilateral axillary ulcerative lesions that improved but did not resolve with empiric antibiotic and antifungal therapy. Skin biopsies were taken, and bilateral feather folliculomas were diagnosed on histopathologic examination. The duck was euthanatized because of the poor prognosis. A 9-year-old Indian runner duck (Anas platyrhynchos) was presented with an ulcerative lesion, with pseudomembrane and serocellular crust affecting the axillary region. This mass was diagnosed as a basosquamous carcinoma. The mass was surgically excised, and no recurrence was observed. Feather folliculomas are usually considered benign neoplasms in domestic birds and may be primarily ulcerative, exudative, bilateral, and symmetric in location. Basosquamous carcinoma may have a similar gross appearance. It is unknown if the axillary region may be an area with increased incidence of neoplasia in birds. This appears to be the first report of feather folliculoma and basosquamous carcinoma in Anseriforme species. Feather folliculomas and other neoplasms, such as basosquamous carcinoma, should be considered as a differential diagnosis in ulcerative or proliferative skin lesions in birds.
30133154|Bustards are long-legged birds, and musculoskeletal disorders, particularly of the limb bones, have been identified as important factors in their health and development. This paper reviews the clinical and postmortem musculoskeletal disorders occurring during the first 180 days of life among four species of bustard chicks reared from 1993 to 1995 at the National Avian Research Center in the United Arab Emirates. Morbidity and mortality rates associated with musculoskeletal disorders in 137 chicks were 51.1 and 5.8%, respectively. Forty-six percent of abnormal clinical findings occurred at 0 to 30 days of age. Angel wing, or lateral rotation of the distal wing, was the most common abnormality at 0 to 30 days, while fracture was the most common abnormality overall during the first 180 days. Other important causes of morbidity were rotational and angular limb deformities, rolled toes, and spraddle legs. Although management changes were introduced, the prevalence of musculoskeletal disorders remained high during the 3-year period, possibly because of improved record keeping, lower chick mortality rates, or improved observations by staff during the last 2 years of the study period. However, the mortality rate of musculoskeletal disorders was remarkably low.
30133169|In chickens, corticosterone and considerably less aldosterone are the secreted corticosteroids, and, in pigeons, the cortisol to corticosterone ratio ranges from 0.07 to 0.3, which is much lower than that in mammals. However, the pituitary-adrenocortical system of pigeons is regulated in a manner similar to that of mammals. Pigeons have a clear diurnal rhythm in plasma corticosterone concentration that can be manipulated by shifting the light regimen. Frequent blood sampling results in higher overall plasma corticosterone concentrations than are found in single blood samples. Plasma corticosterone concentrations after administration of arginine vasopressin or adrenocorticotropin hormone do not vary according to time of day; therefore, pituitary-adrenocortical function tests using these agents can be done at any time of day in pigeons. Based on results of both in vitro and in vivo studies, pigeons are very sensitive to adrenocortical suppression with glucocorticoids; dexamethasone is the most potent glucocorticoid, although when mammal-derived equipotency is taken into account, prednisolone is even more potent. The lowest intravenous doses resulting in suppression of plasma corticosterone concentrations are 0.5 g/kg dexamethasone, 15 g/kg cortisol, and 0.7 g/kg prednisolone. After oral administration, application in the conjunctival sac, or cutaneous application, glucocorticoids cause suppression of the pituitary-adrenocortical system. An equivalent dose of dexamethasone results in longer suppression in pigeons than in dogs and cats; thus, pigeons are more sensitive than these mammals to dexamethasone suppression. Longterm treatment of pigeons with a high dose of dexamethasone may lead to death from secondary infection. Therefore, glucocorticoids should be used with greater caution in pigeons than in mammals, and dosages for pigeons should be lower than mammalian dosages. This also may be true for other avian species.
27823445|Three taita falcon (Falco fasciinucha) nestlings and 3 cohoused hybrid falcon (F rusticolus  F peregrinus) nestlings died after showing lethargy and anorexia for 45 days. Major lesions in the falcons were necrotizing hepatitis, splenitis, and lymphoplasmacytic nephritis. One hybrid falcon also had a heterophilic nephritis. Intranuclear inclusion bodies were present in the hepatocytes of the taita falcons and in the renal tubular epithelial cells of 1 hybrid falcon. Adenoviral particles were found in the cloacal content of 2 taita falcons. DNA in situ hybridization revealed aviadenoviral nucleic acid within the nuclei of hepatocytes of a taita falcon and a hybrid falcon and in the tubular epithelial cells of a hybrid falcon. Aviadenoviral DNA was amplified by polymerase chain reaction in the liver of taita falcons and hybrid falcons. The death of these birds was attributed to the aviadenovirus infection; however, the source of the virus was not determined. Predisposing factors for the outbreak of the viral infection in these falcons may have included transport stress, lack of quarantine measures, and cohousing of falcon species originating from isolated populations with other falcon species.
30135217|Although extra-label drug use in avian medicine is an accepted practice, it has many legal and ethical implications for the avian practitioner. This article discusses several important aspects of this practice, specifically, the federal laws applying to extra-label drug use by practicing veterinarians, the use of imported products not approved in the USA, and the use of products compounded by a pharmacist or veterinarian.
30130696|Little is known about the energy requirements of pet birds. Because animals generally eat to meet energy requirements, the nutrient content of a diet must be balanced with the energy content. To formulate balanced diets for a range of bird species, both the energy needs of the relevant bird species and the energy content of the diet must be calculated. The most practical way of understanding the energy requirements of pet birds is by studying their daily energy expenditure. Factors affecting energy requirements are body size, activity patterns, environmental temperature, plumage cover, age, and physiologic state. Energy costs of maintenance are directly related to the lean body mass and the relative size of the different organs, because these are the tissues that actively use oxygen. Activity patterns also have a considerable impact; the difference between sitting and standing can affect the daily energy expenditure by as much as 42%. There are a variety of published allometric equations for determining avian energy requirements, but those derived from fasted species are inappropriate. For companion birds, equations derived for the particular body-weight range of the avian species in question are the most applicable. Two equations are recommended: one for calculating the energy requirements of avian species less than 100 g, and the second for avian species whose body weights are in the range 100-1500 g.
27670684|To determine reference values for plasma alpha-tocopherol concentrations in falcons and to investigate a possible dietary impact, 29 falcons were randomly selected from a collection of 500 captive breeding falcons fed with 4-week-old chicks. Blood samples collected from each falcon were analyzed for plasma alpha-tocopherol concentrations. Reference values were 16.7-46.1 mg/L with a mean plasma alpha-tocopherol concentration of 27.5  8.7 mg/L. A group of 5 gyr-saker falcon hybrids (Falco rusticolus  Falco cherrug) were fed 1-day-old chicks for 4 weeks; the resultant mean plasma alpha-tocopherol concentration was 34.9  5.6 mg/L. When the diet was changed to turkey breast meat for 4 weeks, the mean plasma alpha-tocopherol concentration decreased significantly to 13.1  2.6 mg/L. Results appeared to support the influence of diet on plasma alpha-tocopherol concentrations in falcons.
30134874|Techniques for ultrasound imaging and percutaneous, ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration of the liver were initially tested on 5 Amazon parrots. The techniques were then applied to 27 clinically normal Amazon parrots. Each of the 27 birds was anesthetized with isoflurane and placed in dorsal recumbency with the head elevated 30. Optimal imaging of the liver was achieved by cranially directing a 7.5-MHz pediatric mechanical sector transducer through a parasternal acoustic window. The normal sonographic appearance of the liver was evaluated. In each bird, an ultrasound-guided aspirate of the liver was collected by using a 22-gauge, 1-in needle connected to a 6-in extension set and a 3-ml syringe. Three techniques were used to collect the aspirates for cytologic evaluation, and the quality of the samples was compared microscopically. Samples with the lowest degree of hemodilution and the highest number and quality of hepatic cells were obtained by penetrating the liver parenchyma multiple times with the needle while simultaneously applying 0.5 ml of suction. Ultrasonographic examination of the liver 5 minutes after fine-needle aspiration revealed no hemorrhage in any bird. No morbidity or mortality occurred in any of the parrots during or after ultrasound imaging or ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration of the liver.
27823444|A commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to quantitate cotinine, a nicotine metabolite, in the plasma of caged birds exposed to environmental tobacco smoke. Birds in smoking households were found to have significantly higher plasma cotinine levels (4.337.8 ng/ml) than control birds from nonsmoking households (03.6 ng/ml) (P < .001). These high levels of cotinine are similar to those reported in humans with clear evidence of clinical alteration and resultant disease from environmental tobacco smoke.
27823349|Marbofloxacin is a bactericidal fluoroquinolone developed exclusively for veterinary medicine. The pharmacokinetic disposition of this drug was studied after oral administration of a single dose (10 mg/kg) to 8 adult Eurasian buzzards (Buteo buteo). Plasma concentrations of marbofloxacin were measured during the 48-hour period after drug administration. A maximum plasma concentration of 3.70 g/ml was achieved at 2.92 hours. Marbofloxacin was relatively slowly absorbed after oral administration (absorption half-life of 1.57 hours) and demonstrated a high bioavailability (92.15%). The elimination half-life was 9.48 hours, and the mean residence time was 10.65 hours. When using a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) breakpoint of 0.25 g/ml, the calculated antimicrobial efficacy of orally administered marbofloxacin was higher than the range considered optimal for a dosing regimen against pathogens with an equivalent MIC. A dosage of 10 mg/kg administered once daily appears to be appropriate for the treatment of most infections with gram-negative bacteria that affect Eurasian buzzards.
40984725|Avian poly omavirus (APV) causes a range of disease syndromes in psittacine birds, from acute fatal disease to subclinical infections, depending on age, species, and other unidentified risk factors. To determine the prevalence of APV-specific antibodies in a captive population of Spix's macaws (Cyanopsitta spixii) in Quatar, 54 birds were tested by blocking enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A prevalence of 48.1% for APV antibodies, which indicates viral exposure, was found. Of 36 Spix's macaws that were serially tested over a period of 4 years, 50.0% were consistently positive, 36.1% were consistently negative, 5.5% had permanently declining antibody levels, and 2.8% showed variable results. By using polymerase chain reaction testing on whole blood samples, an apparent viremia was detected in 1 of 44 birds (2.3%), although contamination provides a likely explanation for this isolated positive result in a hand-reared chick. The white blood cell count was significantly higher in antibody-positive birds compared with antibody-negative birds (P < .05). Because antibody-positive and antibodynegative birds were housed together without a change in their respective antibody status, transmission of APV within the adult breeding population appeared to be a rare event.
30133201|Twelve helmeted honeyeaters (Lichenostomus melanops cassidix), 11 yellow-tufted honeyeaters (Lichenostomus melanops gippslandica), 3 purple-crowned lorikeets (Glossopsitta porphyrocephala), and 3 little lorikeets (Glossopsitta pusilla) died over a short period of time with acute thiamine deficiency. Diagnosis was based on polioencephalomalacia observed histologically, low brain thiamine levels (<1 mg/kg), and the absence of other significant findings on tests performed. The birds were maintained on an artificial nectar (water, honey, and a multivitamin supplement) for 2 years, but this diet was analyzed to be low in thiamine (0.001 mg thiamine/ml of diet). An additional secondary thiamine antagonist, not identified, may have precipitated the mass mortality.
40236523|Iron absorption was compared in European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) fed diets containing high iron (1585 ppm), high iron (1720 ppm) with a phytate (inosital) and tannic acid, low iron (32-34 ppm), low iron with a meat-based dog food, or low iron with vitamin C. Iron absorption was determined by colorimetric analysis of nonheme liver iron. A dietary iron concentration of 32 ppm was inadequate to meet the physiologic demands of the starlings, even when vitamin C or a meat-based dog food was added. The high-iron diet caused an increase in concentrations of nonheme liver iron to levels similar to those in birds that have died of iron storage disease (ISD). Nonheme liver iron concentrations did not increase when a phytate (inositol) and tannic acid were added the high-iron diet. The optimal dietary iron concentration for starlings was narrowed to the range of 34-125 ppm. Adding a phytate, tannic acid, or both to readily available food stuffs may be a practical alternative to more expensive low-iron diets. Furthermore, a low-iron (32 ppm) diet may be an important adjunct to the treatment of iron storage disease in birds.
30134508|Captive breeding and restoration programs involve managed movements of animals between captive and free-living populations. Conservationists are concerned that novel diseases or genetic conditions may be transferred by these movements, endangering both captive-released and remnant wild populations. Captive breeding programs have been established by the governments of several countries in the Middle East with the objective of restoring populations of houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii). Many of these organizations have integrated veterinary departments into their captive-breeding programs. Biomedical research has been developed to maximize the health of captive birds, monitor the diseases present in both captive and free-living populations, and minimize the potential threat of disease transfer. Diseases such as Newcastle disease, avian pox, chlamydiosis, and intestinal parasites pose significant threats to captive breeding and restoration programs for houbara bustards in the Arabian peninsula, and measures are being taken to address this problem in the region.
30135258|Thyroid hyperplasia (goiter) has been considered a common problem in birds and is most commonly observed in budgerigars and pigeons. Records of the Zoo/Exotic Pathology Service (West Sacramento, CA, USA) were reviewed for the period from October 1984 to April 2001. From nearly 12 500 avian accessions, 30 reported a morphologic diagnosis of thyroid hyperplasia. Twentynine of 30 birds from varying species had multiple diagnoses at necropsy, while the remaining bird was diagnosed with thyroid hyperplasia alone. The appearance of all thyroid glands submitted was similar-the glands were enlarged bilaterally (approximately 2.7 x 1.4 cm in size) and red-brown or purple in color. Histologic changes to the thyroid parenchyma were diffuse in all cases (30/30). Thyroid glands contained numerous follicles lined by large cuboidal or low columnar epithelial cells. The morphologic diagnosis was thyroid follicular hyperplasia (hyperplastic goiter). Macaws were represented disproportionately (20/30), particularly blue and gold macaws (Ara ararauna), which represented 15/20 macaws. The cause of thyroid hyperplasia was not determined with certainty in the birds examined.
40236505|Two raptors, a juvenile prairie falcon (Falco mexicanus) and an adult female great horned owl (Bubo virginianus), were presented with luxation of the metacarpophalangeal joint. Additionally, the falcon had a distal metacarpal articular fracture, and the owl had an open wound at the luxation site. After supportive care, both birds were treated by arthrodesis of the metacarpophalangeal joint. A Type 1 external skeletal fixator was applied to stabilize the joint and to allow bony fusion to occur. Bony fusion occurred in 6 and 9 weeks in the falcon and the owl, respectively. Full flight capacity was restored, and both birds were released into the wild. Arthrodesis represents a viable option for the treatment of metacarpophalangeal joint luxations or articular fractures of the associated bone in avian species when treatment by reduction and stabilization fails.
30135622|Cardiovascular anomalies have been reported rarely in psittacine birds. This report describes 2 cockatoos, each presenting with a heart murmur, tachycardia, and a bounding pulse. Clinical signs associated with these patients included cyanosis of the cere and, in 1 bird, ascites. Echocardiographic evaluations of both birds suggested ventricular septal defects, which corresponded to radiographic evidence of an enlarged cardiac silhouette. Pathologic evaluation revealed a ventricular septal defect and persistent truncus arteriosus in an umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba), whereas a Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) had a subvalvular septal defect and aortic hypoplasia. Congenital cardiovascular anomalies should be considered when young psittacine birds are presented with heart murmurs and signs of circulatory dysfunction.
40984806|Eleven budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) from a zoological collection presented at necropsy with emaciation and splenomegaly or hepatomegaly or both. Polymerase chain reaction assays performed on liver and spleen samples were positive for Chlamydophila psittaci in 2 of 3 birds tested, and histologie findings in 2 additional birds were compatible with chlamydiosis. The aviary was subsequently closed to the public, and a 45-day treatment regimen with doxycycline in the seeds was initiated. No further deaths of birds with hepatomegaly or splenomegaly were observed after the first day of treatment. Further investigation of birds that died during the outbreak with emaciation and with hepatic and splenic enlargement revealed severe necrosis of the spleen and liver suggestive of reovirus infection, which was supported with polymerase chain reaction analysis from paraffin-embedded tissue. This reovirus was sequenced and had 100% homology with a reovirus previously identified in an African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus). The outbreak did not affect cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) and blue quail (Coturnix chinensis) kept in the same aviary. A group of budgerigars added to the collection soon before the opening of the aviary may have introduced reovirus and Chlamydophila into the collection.
40236493|A citron-crested cockatoo (Cacatua sulphurea citrinocristata) was referred for a recurring feather cyst involving the dorsal major covert overlying primary feather VIII on the left manus. Surgical removal of the affected follicle was successful using a surgical retractor system, an operating microscope, a bipolar radiosurgical unit, and microsurgical instrumentation. The cyst has not recurred during the 2 years following surgery, and no new cysts have formed on adjacent feathers. Previously published reports suggest that feather cyst removal is unrewarding because cysts frequently recur after lancing, curettage, or fulguration. This report provides a description of complete feather follicle removal that may be a superior method for handling cystic follicles.
30130684|A 20-year-old salmon-crested cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) was examined because of a mass involving the right elbow. Results of whole-body survey and contrast radiographs revealed multiple lytic and productive bone lesions involving the right elbow and the left humerus. A soft tissue mass (5 x 4 x 4-cm) was present in the dorsal midcoelom. Ultrasound evaluation indicated that the coelomic mass was bilobed and filled with fluid. Results of necropsy and histopathologic examination revealed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma involving bone, lungs, liver, and spleen. The soft tissue mass was the grossly enlarged, fluid-filled spleen that was infiltrated by neoplastic cells. The primary origin of the tumor in this bird was unknown.
24624836|Handling, including blood collection, has often been discouraged in molting penguins because it is considered an additional stress imposed on birds already experiencing major physiologic stress associated with molting. To evaluate the degree of physiologic stress posed by molting, we compared the hematologic and plasma biochemical values and hormone levels of molting and nonmolting African penguins, Spheniscus demersus. Five male and 5 female penguins randomly chosen were given complete physical examinations, were weighed, and blood samples were taken at 7 time points before, during, and after the molt. Data were analyzed by linear mixed-model analysis of variance. Throughout the study, behavior and appetite remained normal. Catecholamine levels were highly variable within and among subjects, whereas mean corticosterone levels were significantly different between baseline, molt, and postmolt values. Significant differences from baseline values were observed in many of the hematologic analytes; however, only decreases in hematocrit and red blood cell count values were considered clinically significant. Anemia due to experimentally induced blood loss as a possible cause of the significant hematologic changes was ruled out based on results of a follow-up control study during the nonmolt season, which showed no significant changes in hematocrit level or total red blood cell counts when using similar sampling protocols, which indicates that these changes were associated with molt.
27670685|To objectively evaluate the collateral damage associated with radiosurgical and carbon dioxide (CO2) laser devices, a comparative surgical and histologic study was undertaken in white Carneau pigeons (Columba livia). Ten pigeons were anesthetized, and a series of 3 skin incisions were made in the pectoral region by using a 4.0-MHz radiosurgical unit, a CO2 laser, and a scalpel blade (control). A total of 90 skin incisions were microscopically evaluated, and their associated mechanical- and thermal-induced tissue lesions were measured in micrometers. Scalpel incisions invariably resulted in hemorrhage, whereas all laser and radiosurgical skin incisions were essentially bloodless. Scalpel blade incisions were least traumatic (mean [SD] 18  15 m) followed by incisions created with radiosurgery (mean [SD] 94  60 m) and CO2 laser (mean [SD] 150  64 m). Radiosurgery was significantly less traumatic than CO2 laser (P = .003). Radiosurgery appears to offer significant benefits over CO2 laser for avian surgery.
40984804|A male thick-billed parrot (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha) was diagnosed with a malignant melanoma of the mandibular beak (gnathotheca). Surgical excision was impossible because of the location of the lesion; a combination of radiation therapy and oral antitumor drugs were used to treat the neoplasm. A whole-body computed tomographic scan showed evidence of metastasis in the lungs; the bird, therefore, was considered to have stage IV disease. Throughout the treatment period, the bird showed no clinical evidence of systemic disease. The bird was given 20 treatments of localized radiation therapy of 2.5 Gray (Gy) for a cumulative dose of 50 Gy. The bird was also treated with piroxicam and cimetidine orally from the time of diagnosis, throughout radiation therapy, and until its death. By the completion of radiation therapy, the initial lesion had decreased considerably in size. The bird survived 2.5 months after radiation therapy was completed but died of complications related to metastatic disease. Necropsy results revealed mtastases throughout the body, including lesions in the lungs and liver. To our knowledge, this is the first report of localized radiation therapy and oral antitumor drugs being used to treat malignant melanoma in an avian patient. The radiation therapy did produce tumor response in the form of a reduction in size of the visible tumor.
27823391|A captive 10-year-old female northern pintail (Anas acuta) with a history of unilateral lameness was diagnosed at necropsy with polycystic disease most severely affecting the right kidney. The lameness was attributed to pressure on the sacral nerve plexus caused by the unusually large cyst arising from the right kidney. Polycystic kidney disease previously has been considered an incidental finding in avian species and has only been reported in a pigeon. The clinical significance of polycystic kidney disease in this pintail was attributed to the mechanical pressure caused by the cyst rather than renal dysfunction.
30135160|Nutritional problems encountered in avian practice include poor feeding management, faulty diets, and birds suffering from disease or trauma and in need of nutritional support. Energy intakes may be inadequate or excessive. Diets may be lacking in vitamins A and D, calcium, iodine, or essential amino acids. Other problems, such as zinc or iron toxicoses, myopathies, feather loss or depigmentation, and generalized poor doing, may be linked to nutrition. The challenge of nutritional intervention in companion birds is met by using principles of comparative nutrition, with knowledge from studies in psittacine and passerine birds, melded with clinical judgement and experience.
27753687|Use of external skeletal fixator-intramedullary pin (ESF-IM) tie-in fixators is an adjustable and effective method of fracture fixation in birds. The objective of this study was to determine the contribution of each of the following parameters to the compressive and torsional rigidity of an ESF-IM pin tie-in applied to avian bones with an osteotomy gap: 1) varying the fixation pin position in the proximal bone segment and 2) increasing the number of fixation pins in one or both bone segments. ESF-IM pin tie-in constructs were applied to humeri harvested from red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) (n = 24) that had been euthanatized for clinical reasons. Constructs with a variation in the placement of the proximal fixation pin and with 2, 3, or 4 fixation pins applied to avian bone with an osteotomy gap were loaded to a defined displacement in torque and axial compression. Response variables were determined from resulting load-displacement curves (construct stiffness, load at 1-mm displacement). Increasing the number of fixation pins from 1 to 2 per bone segment significantly increased the stiffness in torque (110%) and compression (60%), and the safe load in torque (107%) and compression (50%). Adding a fixation pin to the distal bone segment to form a 3-pin fixator significantly increased the stiffness (27%) and safe load (20%) in torque but not in axial compression. In the configuration with 2 fixation pins, placing the proximal pin distally in the proximal bone segment significantly increased the stiffness in torque (28%), and the safe load in torque (23%) and in axial compression (32%). Results quantified the relative importance of specific parameters affecting the rigidity of ESF-IM pin tie-in constructs as applied to unstable bone fracture models in birds.
30133123|Humeral fractures and osteomyelitis are common problems in injured raptors. Reaching a definitive diagnosis and identifying an etiogenic agent can be difficult in some clinical cases. Intraosseous humeral lavage was performed in 26 clinically normal, anesthetized red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) to determine the feasibility of obtaining cytologic and microbiologic samples using this technique. The humeral medullary cavity was lavaged with sterile 0.9% sodium chloride through a spinal needle inserted into the distal humerus at a point midway between and slightly proximal to the anterior and posterior epicondyles. A mean of 2.25 ml (reference range, 1.7-3.0 ml) of the initial 3.0 ml of saline was recovered. The lavage fluid was clear or slightly cloudy and colorless or pale yellow, except in samples that were contaminated by peripheral blood. In all samples, the values of total protein concentration and specific gravity were <25 g/L (2.5 g/dl) and <1.0142, respectively. Nucleated cell counts ranged from 0.158-6.04 x 10 cells/L (158-6,040 cells/ 1), except in one sample in which moderate hemorrhage had occurred. Stained smears from cytospin preparations contained only peripheral blood cells in expected proportions. No bacteria were recovered from the aerobic or anaerobic culture of the lavage fluid from 23 birds. One, three, and five colonies of nonhemolytic Staphylococcus species, considered to be skin contaminants, were isolated from three of four birds. Intraosseous lavage was found to be a simple and safe means of collecting samples from the medullary cavity of the avian humerus.
27823415|To determine the clinical effect of systemic carboplatin administration in birds, 6 sulphur-crested cockatoos (Cacatua galerita) were anesthetized and infused intravenously or intraosseously with carboplatin at 5 mg/kg over 3 minutes. Four birds were euthanatized 96 hours after infusion and 2 birds given an intravenous dose were euthanatized 21 days after dosing. All birds tolerated the anesthesia and carboplatin infusion and recovered uneventfully. At 24 hours after dosing, all birds were bright and active. Within 12 hours of dosing, feed intake was reduced and 3 birds vomited, but these signs abated by 48 hours after dosing. Mean body weight decreased by 4% at 24 hours after dosing and continued to decrease, but not significantly, until 96 hours after dosing. Changes in packed cell volume (PCV) and plasma total solids reflected blood loss caused by sampling. The mean PCV decreased significantly by 6 hours after dosing, and the concentration of plasma total solids decreased significantly at 1 hour after dosing and continued to decrease until 12 hours after dosing before progressively and significantly increasing toward baseline values by 96 hours after dosing. At necropsy, myelosuppression was not observed in any bird and no evidence of carboplatin toxicity was found. These results provide veterinarians with useful data for formulating efficacious and safe protocols for platinum-containing compounds when treating neoplasia in parrots and other companion birds.
30133090|Twenty-five healthy captive American flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) were used to determine reference ranges for hematologic and serum biochemical values. Male and female birds were hand caught and manually restrained, and blood samples were obtained from the cutaneous bascilis vein for hematologic testing and serum biochemical analysis. Results were consistent with reported values for American flamingos, other species of flamingos, and other groups of birds. However, serum uric acid, alkaline phosphatase, and chloride concentrations were higher than expected. Serum sodium and total protein concentrations and red blood cell counts were somewhat lower than expected based on previously reported findings.
30136898|Ten sulphur-crested cockatoos (Cacatua galerita) were anesthetized twice, 2 weeks apart, to evaluate the effects on respiratory function of endotracheal (ET), caudal thoracic (CT) air sac, and clavicular air sac administration of isoflurane anesthesia. Four administration methods were evaluated by administering anesthetic gases through either the ET tube or the air sac as an open or closed system. Respiratory function was monitored by arterial and venous blood gas determination, gas-in-gas determination of both ET tube and air sac gases, and spirometry. Both ET tube and CT air sac administration provided a reliable method of maintaining anesthesia and resulted in minimal alteration in respiratory function. Blood pH, partial pressure of carbon dioxide (Pco), bicarbonate, total carbon dioxide, and base excess were not significantly altered by CT air sac administration. Increased partial pressure of oxygen and oxygen saturation were evidence of hyperoxia. CT air sac Pco decreased to 12.7  7.9 mm Hg with CT administration, and this was sufficient to maintain spontaneous respiratory movements. Spirometry demonstrated maintenance of tidal and minute volumes with each administration method despite apparent reduction in visible respiratory movements. Clavicular air sac administration was not successful in providing ventilation or maintaining anesthesia. Despite the demonstrated ability to flush a bolus of gas through this air sac and out the ET tube, no spontaneous ventilation was detected in this air sac in either an open or closed system, preventing delivery of sufficient isoflurane to maintain anesthesia.
30134172|Hepatic iron storage and defective erythrogenesis were found in an 11-month-old hawk-head parrot (Deroptyus accipitrinus) that died after a prolonged history of ill-thrift, failure to wean, and passing undigested seeds in the feces. High amounts of iron were identified in hepatic cells, and confirmed by chemical analysis of formalinized liver. Evidence of a maturation defect of erythropoietic tissue in the bone marrow was found. The exact cause of death in this parrot was not established.
27823366|A 10-year-old, green-cheeked conure (Pyrrhura molinae) was examined because of weight loss and neurologic signs referable to a focal left cerebral lesion. The clinical signs did not improve with treatment, and the animal was euthanatized for humane reasons. A primary brain tumor involving the left cerebrum was found at necropsy. On the basis of histologic morphology and results of immunohistochemical staining of the tumor, the diagnosis was malignant astrocytoma with features of glioblastoma multiforme.
30130666|A protocol was established for ensuring accurate measurements of the avian heart by ultrasonic examination. Standardized imaging planes, display conventions, and transducer locations were determined, and the following imaging planes were defined: right parasternal long-axis view with four planes, right parasternal short-axis view with four planes, apical four-chamber view, and apical two-chamber view. Measurements according to this protocol were performed in 75 birds.
27823433|Information about physiologic concentrations of vitamins A and E in captive psittacine birds would be useful in the diagnosis of potential vitamin deficiencies or toxicoses. To help provide this information, a retrospective study was done to assess circulating concentrations of vitamins A and E in captive Psittaciformes at 6 facilities representing 12 genera and 33 species. Plasma or serum samples collected from psittacine birds were analyzed for concentrations of -tocopherol (n = 115) and retinol (n = 167). Mean retinol concentration ( standard deviation) in all birds was 0.471  0.209 g/ml, and mean -tocopherol concentration was 13.05  6.60 g/ml. When compared by subfamily and genera, concentrations of both retinol and -tocopherol differed significantly among groups. Post hoc testing demonstrated that differences in concentrations of retinol and, at the subfamily level, of -tocopherol were attributable to low concentrations in Pesquet parrots (Psittrichas fulgidus). Differences at the genus level were mainly caused by high -tocopherol concentrations in hyacinth macaws (Andorhynchus hyacinthinus). These results demonstrate that circulating concentrations of vitamins A and E in psittacine birds depend significantly on subfamily and genera.
30134214|To compare results of clinical biochemical analysis using an Abaxis VetScan bench-top analyzer with reagents specifically marketed for avian use and a Hitachi 911 analyzer, plasma (both methods) and whole blood (VetScan method) samples from 20 clinically healthy Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) were analyzed. Correlation between methods was very high (r = 0.9-1.0) for aspartate aminotransferase (AST), calcium, glucose, and uric acid; high (r = 0.7-0.89) for creatine kinase (CK), phosphorus, potassium, and total protein; moderate (r = 0.5-0.69) for globulin; and low (r = 0.3-0.49) for albumin and sodium. VetScan analyzer results for globulin, sodium, and uric acid had a constant negative bias (values below those from the Hitachi method). Based on difference plot analysis, results for AST, calcium, CK, and glucose are comparable. Because 16 of 20 values fell below the lower detection limit of the VetScan analyzer, bile acid data were excluded from analysis. By using a relatively small sample size (0.1 ml whole blood or plasma), the VetScan analyzer offers rapid in-house results, compact size, and ease of operation. For 4 of the most clinically relevant biochemical analytes used in avian medicine (AST, calcium, CK, glucose), it offers reliable values. For an additional 4 analytes (phosphorous, potassium, total protein, uric acid), establishing analyzer-specific reference intervals is recommended. Neither the VetScan nor the Hitachi method is recommended to assess albumin and globulin concentrations.
30133138|A 6-year-old female Catalina macaw (Ara macao X Ara militaris) was presented with a recurring circumferential cloacal mass at the mucocutaneous junction. Three months previously, a similar mass had been removed by silver nitrate cautery. The entire mass was excised circumferentially by neodymium: yttrium aluminum garnet laser. Histopathologic evaluation of the excised tissue revealed that the cloacal mass was a papilloma. The macaw was presented three weeks later because of vent stricture. Cloacotomy was performed to correct the stricture and to remove additional papillomatous proliferative tissue. This surgical approach allowed visibility of the cloacal mucosa and enabled complete surgical excision of the papillomatous tissue.
40984726|The order Passeriformes comprises the largest number of families and species of birds of any avian order. Brazil is rich in passerine birds, which are a common victim of wildlife trafficking in Brazil. Annually, many birds die as a consequence of illegal trade. To investigate the occurrence of the principle diseases and to identify the main causes of death in smuggled passerine birds, the cause of death was evaluated in 360 passerine birds confiscated within the city of So Paulo, Brazil. Causes of death were determined by anatomopathologic and microbiologic studies. Infectious diseases were the cause of death of most birds, which corresponded to 78.6% of cases. The most common infectious diseases were poxvirus infection, aspergillosis, and coccidiosis. Although the etiologic agents of these diseases can coexist asymptomatically within hosts, once the host's immunity is compromised, the pathogen multiplies quickly and causes disease. The results of this study may help to improve the care of passerine birds in captivity and increase the survival rate of confiscated birds. Results may also be useful for in situ conservation programs that investigate the reintroduction of confiscated species or captive birds.
27823447|A captive yellow-tailed black cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus) and 2 free-living tawny frogmouths (Podargus strigoides), both native Australian species, were presented with neurologic signs including depression and pelvic limb paresis and paralysis. Despite supportive treatment, all 3 birds died or were euthanatized. On histologic examination, sections of metastrongyloid nematode larvae were found in the central nervous system of all 3 birds, whereas intact larvae, identified as Angiostrongylus cantonensis, were recovered from the brain and spinal cord of 2 birds. Angiostrongylus cantonensis, the rat lungworm, has an obligatory migratory phase through the host's central nervous system, which can cause severe pathologic lesions. Natural infections in accidental hosts have been documented only in mammals, and to our knowledge, angiostrongyliasis in avian hosts has not been previously reported.
30135245|Gastrointestinal foreign bodies are reported in zoo birds, ratites, and juvenile psittacine birds; however, foreign body ingestion by adult psittacine birds is uncommon. We examined an adult umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba) because of a 4-month history of weight loss and intermittent, dark brown, malodorous stool. Physical examination findings were unremarkable. Results of laboratory testing revealed anemia, leukocytosis, lymphopenia, monocytosis, hypoproteinemia, and hypoalbuminemia; blood lead and zinc concentrations were not elevated. Enterococcus durans was cultured aerobically from the feces. Gas-filled, dilated intestinal loops and a gas-filled proventriculus were evident on survey radiographs. The clinical signs did not resolve with initial treatment, which included ciprofloxacin, ketoconazole, and a lactobacillus supplement. Over the next 2 months, results of blood tests revealed nonregenerative anemia, intermittent leukocytosis, monocytosis, and hypoproteinemia. Staphylococcus lugdunensis and E faecium were isolated from a crop swab and fecal samples. A barium contrast study revealed a filling defect in the area of the large intestine, whereas results of fluoroscopy were normal. The cockatoo responded poorly to further treatment, including 5 days of supportive care in the hospital, and the owners requested euthanasia. On necropsy, a string foreign body (7 cm long) was found in the proximal large intestine. The string had originated from a rope toy in the bird's cage.
41682480|Six free-flying California condors (Gymnogyps californianus) were diagnosed with acute lead toxicosis that caused crop distension and stasis. Between January 2006 and January 2007, the birds were referred to the Phoenix Zoo in Arizona for emergency treatment. In 5 birds, an ingluviotomy was performed to place a feeding tube from the crop to the proventriculus, which allowed a temporary bypass of the dysfunctional esophagus until normal function and motility were regained. A crop-support pressure bandage was placed in 4 birds to improve crop emptying into the proventriculus and to prevent crop distension. Although chelation therapy is the gold standard treatment for lead toxicosis, severe cases of lead-induced crop stasis are not acutely reversible with Pharmaceuticals. In these condors, placement of a feeding tube was deemed prudent to ensure a viable enteric route of nutritional support during the standard treatment and recovery period in acute lead toxicosis with crop stasis.
30130665|With the increased understanding and use of a number of antifungal drugs in humans, particularly some of the newer azoles, veterinarians need to reconsider their approach to therapy for mycotic infections in avian patients. We review a number of antifungal agents and their pharmacology in humans and in avian species. By understanding the pharmacologic disposition of these antifungal drugs, clinicians can make rational choices in their approach to treatment.
30135177|The thyroid gland is a critical organ for maintaining general metabolic rate and controlling pre- and post-natal growth and differentiation of many organ systems. Thyroid hormones in birds regulate body weight, plumage, fertility, secondary sex characteristics, and lipid metabolism similarly to the function of thyroid hormones in mammals. The purpose of this article is to review salient features of the embryology, histology and physiology of avian thyroid glands. The post-hatching position of the thyroid gland is consistent among most species of birds, lying along the ventral aspect of the common carotid artery at the level of the jugular vein and the origin of the vertebral artery. Histologically, the avian thyroid gland comprises polarized, variously shaped epithelial cells arranged in follicles containing the glycoprotein thyroglobulin (colloid) within follicular lumina. In adult chickens, thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) is not thyrotrophic and does not cause release of thyroid-stimulating hormone from the pituitary gland. Thyroid-stimulating hormone release from the pituitary gland in birds is controlled by the peripheral levels of triiodothyronine (T3), and not by TRH. The half-life (
30136860|Electrocardiograms (ECGs) were recorded from 41 healthy macaws (Ara species) and 31 healthy cockatoos (Cacatua species). All birds were anesthetized via face mask with isoflurane anesthesia. Standard bipolar (I, II, III) and augmented unipolar (aVR, aVL, aVF, V10) leads were recorded with birds in dorsal recumbency using a direct-writing oscillograph. Heart rates for macaws and cockatoos ranged from 231 to 571 beats per minute. A sinus arrhythmia was observed in 32% and 23% of the macaws and cockatoos, respectively. The mean electrical axis for the macaw ECGs ranged from -76 to -87, whereas the mean electrical axis for the cockatoo ECGs ranged from -73 to -89. The QRS was of the rS contour in lead II in 73% of the macaw ECGs and 84% of the cockatoo ECGs. Electrocardiographic parameters reported in this study can aid clinicians in evaluating commonly seen species of macaws and cockatoos.
24623513|Sixteen adult captive bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) underwent a complete bilateral ocular examination to assess normal ocular parameters and describe ophthalmic lesions. Tear production was measured with the Schirmer tear test 1 and intraocular pressure was measured with applanation tonometry. The menace response was normal bilaterally in 13 of 16 eagles. Two birds had normal menace responses despite having fundic lesions, and 2 birds with an inconsistent or absent menace response did not have appreciable ophthalmic lesions. Mean (SD) tear production was 14  2 mm/min (range, 819 mm/min). Mean intraocular pressure was 21.5  1.7 mm Hg (range, 1526 mm Hg). At least 1 ocular lesion was present in 50% of examined eyes. Cataracts, the most common lesion observed, were present in 8 eyes of 5 birds. Three of 4 known geriatric birds were or had been affected with bilateral cataracts. Overall, ocular lesions are common in captive bald eagles, and cataracts appear to be more prevalent in geriatric bald eagles. An obvious positive menace response is present in most visual birds but may be absent in some eagles that are either normal or that do not have appreciable ophthalmic lesions. Applanation tonometry and the Schirmer tear test 1 can be performed easily on adult bald eagles and provide reproducible results.
24624838|An adult female Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) presented with a ventral displacement of the hyoid apparatus, associated with distension of the intermandibular sublingual space and of the gular skin, causing difficulties with prehension and deglutition of food and water. Physical examination revealed that the tongue was able to move normally and could be replaced into a normal anatomical position by external compression of the distended ventral intermandibular region. A mild hypoalbuminemia was the only remarkable finding of the biochemistry panel. Radiographs and computed tomography scan of the head and neck regions confirmed a normal hyoid apparatus. An extraoral surgical reconstruction of the distended intermandibular skin was performed: the excess skin was incised and resected and the margins of the incision were sutured with appropriate tissue tension to obtain a good apposition and prevent ventral displacement of the hyoid apparatus. Postoperative complication included airway obstruction by a large amount of respiratory secretions, which were successfully aspirated from the trachea. A supportive elastic bandage was placed at the level of the beak commissure during the following 24 hours in order to reduce downward pressure on the suture line and minimize the risk of dehiscence of the suture. The goose resumed eating within 4 hours following the surgery and oxygen supplementation was discontinued after 24 hours. Respiration was assessed as normal and the tongue remained permanently in normal position. The lingual entrapment did not recur during the following 18 months.
30135619|Yolk sac retention or the failure to absorb yolk is a common problem in recently hatched ostrich chicks (Struthio camelus) and is one of the major causes of mortality in the first 2 weeks after hatching. In a study of 80 yolk sacs from dead-in-shell (DIS) eggs (n = 24) and ostrich chicks up to 3 weeks after hatching (n = 56), several aspects were considered. A predictive curve for normal growth and yolk absorption was calculated, a histologic study of "normal" and "retained yolk" sacs was conducted, and a microbiological evaluation of yolk sacs and the chicks was performed. Findings were discussed in comparison to comparable data for poultry and in relation to possible causes of yolk sac retention. At necropsy, the diagnosis of retained yolk sac was made 13 times. No differences were observed by histopathologic examination between chicks with yolk sac retention and normal chicks. When the predictive curve was compared with direct observations at necropsy, the direct method had a sensitivity and specificity of 52% and 93%, respectively. Using the predictive curve, 19 yolk sacs were considered to be retained. Bacterial growth was found in the yolk of 42% of the DIS chicks, in 26% of the normal chicks, and in 22% of chicks with retained yolk sacs. In most cases, the same organism was also cultured from the liver of the chick. The bacterium most commonly isolated was Escherichia coli. Omphalitis could not be correlated with any of the isolates.
30133121|The clinical and pathologic findings of pediatric conditions that developed in four species of bustards (Eupodotis ruficrista, Ardeotis kori, Chlamydotis undulata, and Eupodotis senegalensis) during the first 180 days after hatching are reviewed. The study surveyed 137 chicks reared at the National Avian Research Center in the United Arab Emirates between 1993 and 1995. The mortality rate of chicks decreased from 71 to 25% between 1993 and 1995. This decrease was associated with modifications to the management of the chicks and the rearing environment. Musculoskeletal conditions were the most important cause of morbidity over the first 30 days (50%) and, in total, over 180 days (49%). Bacterial diseases were the most important cause of death over the first 30 days (62%) and, in total, over 180 days (40%). Eighty-two percent of the bacterial isolates from clinical and postmortem cases were gram-negative bacteria. Mechanical abnormalities of the gastrointestinal tract were an important cause of death (16%) and morbidity (4%), in total, over 180 days. Forty-five percent and 52% of all chick morbidity and mortality, respectively, occurred within the first 30 days after hatching. Aggressive care of bustards during the first 30 days after hatching is important. Health recommendations for bustard chicks are summarized.
30134173|Mycoplasma synoviae was isolated from a culture of pooled tracheal swab samples from juvenile rheas (Rhea americana) with clinical signs compatible with mycoplasmosis. Escherichia coli was also isolated and may have been a contaminant, secondary invader, or copathogen. The rheas responded to treatment with doxycycline and tylosin and clinical signs resolved completely. It is not known if these birds will remain carriers of M. synoviae.
30133088|Total protein concentration established by the biuret method in plasma and serum from pigeons was compared with results obtained by temperature-compensated and nontemperature-compensated refractometers in plasma. Plasma total protein concentration and serum total protein concentration measured by the biuret method were highly correlated (r = 0.99); plasma values were on average 1.74 g higher than serum values because of the presence of fibrinogen. Values obtained by refractometer were higher than values obtained by the biuret method. Values obtained by the temperature-compensated refractometer were significantly higher than those obtained by the nontemperature-compensated refractometer and were not considered to be accurate. Plasma protein concentration measured by refractometer can only be considered a rough estimate of total protein concentration obtained by the biuret method (r = 0.89) after applying a correction formula for the species and specific refractometer.
27823364|The Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator (CUSA) is an ultrasonically powered aspirator that selectively fragments and aspirates parenchymal tissue while sparing vascular and ductal structures. We evaluated the CUSA and the CO2 laser for removal of lipomatous masses in 16 budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus). With both methods, the level of hemorrhage and length of operating time was acceptable. However, the CUSA, which irrigates and aspirates continuously, provided superior visibility of the surgical field. Results of this study indicate that either the CO2 laser or the CUSA may be safe and effective in removing lipomas from birds.
41496981|A 25-year-old yellow-naped Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala auropalliata) was presented for nasal discharge and sneezing. Physical examination revealed poor feather quality, a mild serous nasal discharge, and a mass on the dorsal surface of the oral cavity. Cytologic examination of a mass aspirate as well as results of a choanal culture revealed squamous metaplasia of the salivary glands and bacterial rhinitis, respectively. Following resolution of the presenting conditions, the patient was presented for hind limb weakness and ataxia. The clinical signs were transient and generally resolved with rest but could be reproduced after stressful episodes, such as restraint for procedures or treatment. Test results from a complete blood count, biochemistry profile, whole-body radiographs, needle electromyography of the leg muscles, and an edrophonium challenge test were within reference limits. Based on the clinical signs and results of the diagnostic workup, the presumptive diagnosis was intermittent claudication, a condition caused by peripheral vascular disease and defined as intermittent weakness and pain in the legs induced by exercise and relieved by rest. Shortly after initiation of treatment with isoxsuprine, the bird died. Postmortem examination and histopathology revealed severe atherosclerotic lesions throughout the vascular system with stenotic lesions present in the abdominal aorta and femoral arteries. Electron microscopic examination of the great arteries was also performed and helped to further characterize the nature of the lesions. This case is the first report, to our knowledge, of an intermittent claudication-like syndrome associated with peripheral atherosclerosis in a psittacine bird. In addition, the distribution and some of the macroscopic and histopathologic features of the lesions differ from previous descriptions of atherosclerosis in psittacine birds.
40236567|To determine if blood administered to pigeons by gavage tube would simulate gastrointestinal hemorrhage in a noncarnivorous avian model, be digested in the gastrointestinal tract, and subsequently alter concentrations of plasma urea nitrogen, creatinine, or uric acid, blood from common peacocks (Pavo cristatus) was administered by gavage tube to 5 healthy domestic pigeons (Columba livid) at doses of 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 4.0, and 8.0 ml/kg. No significant difference in plasma concentrations of urea nitrogen, creatinine, or uric acid was seen 4-6 hours after gavage. The findings did not support or rule out the presence of gastrointestinal blood in pigeons as a model for hemorrhage in noncarnivorous avian species.
30133109|Two similar highly fatal disease outbreaks occurred a year apart in separate populations of captive Mauritius kestrels (Falco punctatus) housed at the same raptor center. Sudden death was associated with few premonitory signs, but hemorrhagic diarrhea was sometimes observed. Consistent gross pathologic findings included hepatosplenomegaly and petechial hemorrhages throughout the gastrointestinal tract, which contained hemorrhagic fecal material. Histopathologic examination identified systemic necrotizing vasculitis and hepatitis associated with numerous intranuclear inclusion bodies. Adenovirus particles were subsequently detected in infected hepatocytes by electron microscopy. An adenovirus was isolated from the liver and spleen of a representative dead Mauritius kestrel, as well as from turkey poults and 1-day-old domestic fowl chicks that had been fed to the kestrels at the time of the first and second outbreaks, respectively.
30135212|A mature great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) was presented to a raptor rehabilitation center because of head injury and severe trauma to the left eye. Ophthalmic examination revealed a painful left eye with evidence of chronic inflammation and blindness. After evisceration of the left eye, an intraocular silicone prosthesis was implanted to maintain symmetry of the head. Three weeks after surgery, a corneal ulcer developed in the left eye. Attempts to manage the ulcer with topical therapy were unsuccessful. After superficial debridement, a conjunctival pedicle graft was done, and the eye was then treated with topical antifungal and antibacterial agents. The pedicle graft remained intact. The owl was intended to be used as a permanent resident and educational tool. However, because of its aggressive nature and its ability to capture and kill live prey, the owl underwent flight training and was subsequently released into the wild.
30134171|The third and fourth phalanges of the third digit (main toe) of the left foot in an ostrich (Struthio camelus) were amputated because of severe osteomyelitis and septic arthritis of the distal interphalangeal joint. Healing occurred without any complications and no locomotive problems were reported by the owner 6 months after surgery. We conclude that amputation of a portion of the main digit is a feasible method of treating irreparable orthopedic digit disorders in ostriches, and does not create ambulatory problems for the bird.
40236504|Body temperature and heart and respiratory rates are measured routinely during the physical examination of most animals. However, the influence of stress on these values has not been well evaluated in birds. In this study, we measured the cloacal temperature and heart and respiratory rates serially during 15 minutes of restraint in 17 Amazon parrots (Amazona species). The mean cloacal temperature of the parrots increased significantly (P < .001) within 4 minutes of manual restraint and increased by 2.3C (4.2F) at 15 minutes. Mean respiratory rates also increased significantly (P < .001) from 129 to 252 breaths/min during 15 minutes of manual restraint, while mean heart rates did not significantly change. These findings emphasize the importance of limiting restraint time and observing for tachypnea, even in healthy parrots, to avoid potentially life-threatening increases in body temperature.
30130682|Metastatic tumors of the respiratory tract are reported in birds; however, primary tumors of the respiratory system are rarely described. A male African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus) of unknown age was presented for examination because of lethargy and inappetence. On physical examination, the bird was emaciated with dull feathers; the right wing was drooping, and ankylosis of the scapulohumeral and humeral-radial/ulnar joints was evident on palpation, with overlying pyodermatitis secondary to self-mutilation. No respiratory distress was observed. On radiographs, the humerus appeared deformed and highly radiopaque, with areas of proliferative bone formation and osteolysis. The bird died 35 days later. Histopathologic examination revealed a multifocal, infiltrative neoplastic process of the lungs and massive infiltration of osseous medullary lacunae of the humerus by a carcinoma. The histopathologic diagnosis was primary bronchial carcinoma.
30130713|Paramyxovirus serotype 1 (PMV-1), the etiologic agent of Newcastle disease, is an important cause of morbidity in falcons in the Middle East. To determine whether a commercial, oil-based, inactivated poultry vaccine produces humoral response in falcons, we vaccinated 38 young, unvaccinated gyr-peregrine hybrid falcons (Falco rusticolis X Falco peregrinus) and monitored antibody response for a 45-day period after vaccination. To determine whether immunity is vertically transmitted, we additionally tested the yolks of 15 unfertile eggs of falcons vaccinated 5 months previously. All testing was done by commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for PMV-1 antibody designed for use in poultry. In the vaccinated falcons, serum antibody levels to avian PMV-1 increased by day 14 after vaccination, and titers continued to increase until day 45 when the study ended. Five percent of birds failed to seroconvert. Adult female falcons vaccinated with inactivated vaccine produced eggs with high antibody levels. The inactivated vaccine caused no detectable adverse affects in the gyr-peregrine hybrids.
41826545|Bone plates are rarely used in avian fracture management for several reasons, and until recently, there was no plating system considered appropriate for use in birds with a body mass less than 500 g. To evaluate 3 different miniplate systems in avian fracture repair, 3 groups (A, B, and C) of 6 pigeons (Columba livid) each were used. The left ulna and radius of the pigeons were transected, and the ulna was stabilized. In group A, a 1.3-mm adaption plate was used. In group B, a limited contact system was created with washers that were placed between a 1.3-mm adaption plate and the bone. The intention was to reduce the compression of the periosteum and vascular damage to the bone. In group C, a 1.0-mm maxillofacial miniplate was used. Healing was evaluated with radiographs after 14 and 28 days. A flight test was conducted on day 28; the birds were then euthanatized, and the wing was dissected. Birds in group A with the adaptation plate achieved the best flight results (100%). In group B birds, no effect of the limited contact concept was visible at necropsy, and a high percentage of the screws had loosened, leading to failure (33%). The maxillofacial miniplates of group C birds were too weak and bent (100%). These results indicate that the adaption plate 1.3 met the desired requirements. To improve the system, further trials, with smaller drill bits and with screws having a smaller thread pitch, are recommended.
40236597|Two adult and 1 juvenile free-flying greater sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis tabida) were diagnosed with capture myopathy after oe-chloralose baiting and physical capture during a banding and feeding ecologic study. Blood samples were collected for serum biochemical analysis at the time of capture for the 2 adults, and at 24 hours postcapture, at various intervals during treatment, and at the time of release for all 3 birds. Concentrations of creatine kinase, aspartate transaminase, and lactate dehydrogenase were high within 1 hour of capture and peaked approximately 3 days after capture. By days 10-17 after capture, creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase concentrations both decreased to within the reference range measured for cranes at capture, but aspartate transaminase concentrations remained 2-5 times higher than the measured reference range. Treatment consisted of corticosteroids, selenium/vitamin E, parenteral fluids, and gavage feedings. Physical therapy consisted of assisting the cranes to stand and walk 2-8 times a day, massaging leg muscles, and moving limbs manually through the range of motion. The adults were released when they were able to stand up independently and were pacing in the pen. The juvenile was released 12 hours after it was able to stand independently but was returned to the pen when it fell and could not rise. It was treated supportively for an additional 3 days and then successfully released. Both adult cranes were observed on their territories with their original mates after release and returned to their territories for the subsequent 8 years, raising chicks most years. After release, the juvenile was observed in a flock of cranes near its natal territory for the next 2 days.
40984803|To evaluate the health and nutritional status of 3 wild Australian psittacine species, plasma and hepatic mineral concentrations and plasma biochemical values were measured in wild-caught galahs (Eolophus roseicapilla), long-billed corellas (Cacatua tenuirostris), and sulphur-crested cockatoos (Cacatua galerita). No correlations were found between hepatic and plasma mineral levels. Mean plasma calcium (1.79 mmol/L [7.16 mg/dL]) and sodium (103 mmol/L [103 mEq/L]) concentrations were lower, whereas mean total phosphorus (6.53 mmol/L [20.22 mg/dL]) and potassium (8.87 mmol/L [8.87 mEq/L]) concentrations were higher than values for captive counterparts. Plasma iron levels were higher than those reported for captive counterparts, with evidence of interspecific (sulphur-crested cockatoos, 109 mol/L [609 g/dL]; corellas, 57 mol/L [318 g/dL]; galahs, 90 mol/L [503 g/dL]) and temporal variation (galahs: May, 107 mol/L [598 g/dL]; July, 59 mol/L [330 g/dL]). Hepatic iron concentrations were as high as 1030 mg/kg. Interspecific variation was minimal in mean plasma selenium (11.8 mol/L [929 g/L]) and zinc (31.2 mol/L [204 g/dL]) concentrations. Plasma biochemical values varied significantly from reported reference ranges. Ranges for total protein, albumin, and bile acid concentrations were lower, whereas uric acid, glutamate dehydrogenase, amylase, and cholesterol concentrations were higher than those previously reported for these species, and interspecific variation was evident. Variation in measures of mineral status or plasma biochemical values between males and females were negligible. An evaluation of fecal microflora showed a distinct absence of gram-negative bacteria or budding yeast. Results of this study show that analyte values used to determine health and nutritional status of wild birds differ from those published for captive counterparts. Although analyte values appear to vary minimally by sex, distinct taxonomie and some temporal differences exist in values from wild birds of these 3 species.
40236530|An outbreak of adenoviral disease occurred in 2 separate raptor collections in the United Kingdom during August and September of 2004, involving a Harris hawk (Parabuteo unicinctus), a Bengal eagle owl (Bubo bengalensis), and a Verreaux's eagle owl (Bubo lacteus). The cases were diagnosed by results of necropsy, histologic examination, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Although virus isolation and electron microscopy were unsuccessful in identifying adenovirus as the causative agent, PCR testing with consensus primers resulted in amplicons of specific size. DNA sequencing of the PCR products identified the detected virus as a new member of the genus Siadenovirus. To our knowledge, this is the first report of adenovirus infection in these avian species, and we propose that this virus be called "raptor adenovirus."
40236528|A 9-month-old, male budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) was presented with an acute onset of weakness and vomiting. The bird had recently ingested leaves of freshly harvested crown vetch (Coronilla varia) from a fresh cutting of the plant placed next to the bird's cage. During the following 10 hours, the bird exhibited tachypnea and showed progressive neurologic signs of weakness, incoordination, tremors, and depression. The bird was treated with supportive care and activated charcoal. Its condition stabilized in the following 8 hours, with improvement within 48 hours and complete recovery in 2 weeks. Crown vetch grows in disturbed soils, tolerates dry conditions, and is often planted to prevent soil erosion. The toxic constituent of crown vetch is the nitrotoxin, -nitropropionic acid, a potent neurotoxin.
30135179|Tracheal obstruction constituted a life-threatening emergency in a hybrid goose (Anser species). A cannula was placed into the caudal thoracic air sac to provide an alternate airway for fresh air flow. Tracheal stenosis, as a sequel to a predator-inflicted wound in the ventral cervical region, was diagnosed by tracheoscopy. The stenotic section was resected, and the trachea was successfully reconstructed by using appositional sutures around two adjacent cartilaginous rings on each side of the resection. Adjunct therapy included antimicrobial and antiinflammatory drugs.
30134506|Aerobic and anaerobic culture samples from a severe bumblefoot lesion in a wild adult female great horned owl yielded Fusobacterium necrophorum. Bumblefoot is an unusual finding in a wild owl and F. necrophorum has not been previously reported to be associated with bumblefoot in birds of prey.
30136904|Seven psittacine birds from an aviary of 35 birds developed respiratory disease and died after the premises were cleaned with a commercial solution of undiluted sodium hypochlorite (5% chlorine bleach). Six birds died within 12 days postexposure, and clinical abnormalities were first observed at 6 days. All 7 birds were necropsied and had gross and histopathologic lesions of the trachea, including epithelial deciliation (7/7), ulceration (6/7), squamous metaplasia (5/7), and epithelial hyperplasia (5/7). These tracheal lesions were consistent with inhalation of a noxious agent. Death in these birds was considered to result from hypoxia secondary to blockage of the trachea or pulmonary congestion and, in some cases, sepsis secondary to invasion of bacteria through the altered tracheal mucosa.
41682462|Increased activities of certain biochemical enzymes (alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], lactate dehydrogenase [LDH], alkaline phosphatase [ALP]) have been associated with blunt liver injury in many species. To evaluate changes in plasma hepatic biochemical parameters in acute avian liver disease caused by trauma and to compare biochemical changes with histologie lesions in hepatic parenchyma, 30 healthy fasted Indian ring-necked parakeets (Psittacula krameri manillensis) were divided into 2 groups, and traumatic liver injury was caused by endoscopie liver biopsy (group 1) or by liver biopsy and crushing injury to the hepatic parenchyma with endoscopie forceps (group 2) in anesthetized birds. Blood samples were collected at baseline and at 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 96, 108, and 120 hours in alternate groups to compare analyte values after injury with those at baseline. Results showed consistently decreased plasma ALP activity (excluding 1 time point) throughout the study, which was thought to be associated with isoflurane administration. Plasma glutamate dehydrogenase activity initially increased but rapidly declined thereafter and was attributed to acute focal hepatocellular injury. In both groups, increases in plasma AST, ALT, and LDH activities was most likely caused by muscle injury because creatine kinase activity was concurrently increased. Compared with baseline values, bile acid concentration and -glutamyl transferase activity were not affected by liver biopsy or crush injury. Plasma sorbitol dehydrogenase activity was the most specific indicator of liver injury in both groups. Histologie changes correlated poorly with biochemical results, possibly because the small area of hepatic parenchyma that was damaged did not affect enzyme values substantially.
27823387|Semen collection and artificial insemination have made important contributions to the breeding of avian species in captivity. These techniques have been successfully used primarily in breeding programs of rare and endangered species and in the production of hybrid falcons for the sport of falconry. Semen samples are collected from nondomestic birds by using the cooperative, massage, and electroejaculation methods. After semen collection, insemination is done by the simple process of transferring semen samples directly into the oviduct of the hen. Freshly collected semen samples also can be diluted to obtain the desired spermatozoa concentration for multiple inseminations or for short-term and long-term storage. This paper reviews the different methods used for semen collection, techniques for semen dilution and preservation, and use of artificial insemination in nondomestic birds.
30133184|The pharmacokinetic disposition of itraconazole in plasma and tissues was evaluated in a multiple dose study using 11 nonreleasable red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis). An itraconazole solution was administered by gavage at a dosage of 5 mg/kg in 4 hawks and 10 mg/kg in 7 hawks once daily for 15 days. On days 1 and 14, blood samples were obtained at 1, 8, 16, and 24 hours after itraconazole administration. The hawks were killed on day 15, and samples of air sac, brain, kidney, liver, lung, and small intestine were retrieved. High-pressure liquid chromatography was used to measure the concentration of the parent drug, itraconazole, and its active metabolite, hydroxyitraconazole, in plasma and tissues of each hawk. Concentrations represent point-in-time values. Results suggest that hawks gavaged with itraconazole at 10 mg/kg once daily will reach steady state plasma concentrations of itraconazole and hydroxyitraconazole within 2 weeks. Although plasma concentrations were lower than those reported in parrots and pigeons, concentrations of both itraconazole and hydroxyitraconazole in organs other than the brain were comparable among species of birds.
30133094|This paper describes the results of a behavioral study on a captive population of houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii). The aim of the study was to increase the understanding of houbara bustards in captivity during the breeding season, enabling improvements to be made in their management, thereby maximizing their reproductive potential. All individuals in the study had been taken from the wild as adults and had not previously exhibited sexual behavior. Both males and females exhibited strong diurnal patterns of behavior. Birds were most active during the afternoon and early evening; male courtship display was also most prominent at this time. Individuals spent most of their time (approximately 70%) resting and the remainder of their time in other activities, such as locomotion, feeding, drinking, and social and comfort behaviors. Four of the six males under observation were seen to display. Females were never seen to be sexually active. Stereotypic behavior was observed in 56% of females and 17% of males. Social interactions (aggression) were quite common, with males being involved in more interactions than females. No obvious pattern of dominance status in relation to gender was observed, yet it was clear that dominance status was related to male sexual status: the displaying male in each aviary was also the male of higher dominance status. Birds tended to use the space at the rear of the aviaries in preference to the space at the front, and this behavior was more prevalent in females than males. Cluster analysis revealed an absence of intersex association. The different social and environmental requirements of males and females are discussed in light of the results of this study and studies on the biology of the species in the wild. It is proposed that a more naturalistic approach to the management of houbara bustards is taken.
40236506|Avian mycobacteriosis has been documented commonly in poultry, companion birds, and birds in zoological collections or wildlife parks. However, reports in free-ranging raptors are relatively rare. We describe 6 cases of mycobacteriosis in free- living raptors. Four red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), 1 red-shouldered hawk (Buteo lineatus), and 1 great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) were presented for examination after being found on the ground unable to fly. Common clinical findings in these birds included coelomic distention or palpable coelomic mass, nonregenerative anemia, and leukocytosis characterized by heterophilia, monocytosis, and lymphopenia. Results of radiography, ultrasonography, coelomoscopy, and biopsy, in combination with acid-fast staining of specimens obtained by biopsy or fine-needle aspiration, provided evidence of a presumptive diagnosis of mycobacteriosis. All birds were euthanatized (n = 5) or died (n = 1). At necropsy, diffuse granulomas with intralesional acid-fast bacilli were present in all birds. Mycobacteriosis was confirmed by culture in 4 birds, and polymerase chain reaction testing confirmed Mycobacterium avium in 3 of these 4 birds. On the basis of clinical and postmortem findings, mycobacteriosis should be considered as a differential diagnosis in adult raptors that are found debilitated and in poor body condition. Detection of acid-fast bacilli in biopsy or necropsy specimens allows a presumptive diagnosis of mycobacteriosis; however, definitive diagnosis requires mycobacterial culture or polymerase chain reaction analysis.
27823362|The intracellular hematozoa of vertebrates are apicomplexan parasites with a life cycle consisting of 3 major phases: schizogony (asexual), gametogony (sexual), and sporogony (asexual). Most members have heteroxenous life cycles, wherein gametogony and sporogony occur in an arthropod vector and schizogony occurs in the vertebrate host. Leucocytozoon toddi occurs in Falconiformes and Leucocytozoon ziemanni in Strigiformes. Considered nonpathogenic in adult raptors, Leucocytozoon can cause mortality in nestlings. Haemoproteus is generally considered nonpathogenic in raptors; however, there are recent reports of fatalities in owls. Plasmodium is the true malarial parasite of birds and mammals. One species, Plasmodium relictum, is considered pathogenic for raptors. Atoxoplasma (previously Lankesterella) is an avian coccidian with both blood and intestinal stages. Babesia has been reported in raptors and might cause anemia and blindness in young falcons. In this article, advances in hematozoon diagnosis, treatment, and prevention are discussed. Although some hematozoa of raptors are considered nonpathogenic, high parasitemias in peripheral blood could indicate an underlying disease process.
24623897|A captive-born marabou stork (Leptoptilos crumeniferus) was presented for swelling of the ventral air pouch of 1 month's duration. The pouch appeared fluid filled, and its distal third wall was markedly inspissated. The thickened distal portion of the pouch wall was removed surgically. During anesthesia, mucous discharge from the nares was evident and the nasal mucosa was hyperemic. Aeromonas and Proteus species were isolated from a nasal culture. Postoperative therapy that consisted of nasal flushing, antimicrobial agents, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was effective in managing the disease. On histologic examination, diffuse hemorrhage, necrosis, and multifocal vasculitis with moderate-to-severe heterophilic inflammation were present within sections of the ventral pouch. To our knowledge this is the first report of a mucus-filled ventral air pouch with associated pathologic changes secondary to a productive infection of the upper respiratory tract in a marabou stork. The unique communication between nasal cavities and the ventral air pouch should be considered in future cases of respiratory infection in marabou storks.
27670707|A 32-year-old female American flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber) was presented with a squamous cell carcinoma of the middle digit of the right foot. No clinical, hematologic, or radiologic evidence of metastasis was present. Salvage amputation of the digit resulted in complete cure, whereas previous electrosurgery and radiation therapy were unsuccessful. Three years later, another squamous cell carcinoma was diagnosed in the middle digit of the left foot. The digit was also amputated. Seven months after the second amputation, the bird did not have any recurrence or signs of metastasis.
40236529|A yellow-naped Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala auropalliata) was presented with a 1-year history of feather-destructive behavior with an incidental 14-year history of ptyalism. Palpation, radiographs, fluoroscopy, and biopsy confirmed a diagnosis of multiple sialoceles and sialoliths throughout the cervical region. Treatment for ptyalism was not necessary in this parrot; however, treatment in other species generally involves surgical resection or medical treatment with anticholinergics or botulinum toxin A injections. Clinical signs associated with both the presence of sialoceles and feather-destructive behavior improved briefly with changes in husbandry and medical treatment including antibiotics and anti-inflammatory medications. There have been few reports of this lesion in avian species, except for occasional reports in pigeons where the underlying cause is thought to be either hypovitaminosis A or herpesviral infection. This parrot was on a nutritionally adequate diet and had a negative antibody titer for Pacheco's disease, and no underlying cause was identified.
30130670|Tracheal obstruction in 19 dyspneic psittacine birds was treated with a vacuum technique. Diagnosis was made by tracheoscopy. Following localization of the obstruction, the obstructive material was removed by vacuum suction. Aspergillus fumigatus was cultured from tracheal swab samples in all birds. All birds had a history of dietary nutritional deficiencies; they had been fed an all-seed diet. The tracheal suction procedure in conjunction with an air sac tube is a lifesaving technique in acutely dyspneic psittacine birds with a tracheal obstruction. Whole-body radiographs and tracheoscopic findings provide information about the prognosis of the bird. The owner should always be warned that recurrence of tracheal obstruction is possible.
27753661|A 5-year-old lovebird (Agapornis roseicollis) was presented with scaly crusts around both external ear openings and exudate present around the left ear. The bird had been treated with ivermectin and enrofloxacin without success. A pure culture of Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii was isolated from both ears. After susceptibility testing, a treatment of an acetic and boric acid solution administered topically 3 times daily was prescribed. The scaly appearance disappeared after 14 days of treatment and C kroppenstedtii could not be reisolated.
27823339|Host defense in chickens against tumors caused by Marek disease virus is by cell-mediated immunity, which is inhibited by stress. In this study, metyrapone, an adrenal blocking agent, was administered to domestic chickens with Marek lymphoid tumors to determine whether cell-mediated response was increased in treated birds. Chickens naturally infected with Marek disease virus were fed a ration containing a narrow optimal dose of metyrapone (500 mg/kg of feed). Untreated control birds were fed the same ration without metyrapone. Visceral lymphoid tumors were absent or regressed in 82% (14/17) of chickens treated with metyrapone and in none (0/18) of the control birds. We conclude that metyrapone resulted in a reduced stress level in treated chickens that increased the effectiveness of T-cell defense against tumor growth.
40236580|Three bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) found along highways and unable to fly were presented for evaluation. All eagles exhibited sternal recumbency, as well as flaccid hind limb and tail paralysis. Vertebral column and spinal cord trauma were suspected as the cause. One bird died, whereas the remaining 2 birds were stabilized for diagnostic imaging studies. All 3 birds were evaluated by radiography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for diagnosis and for prognosis in the live birds. Radiographic findings in all 3 birds were inconclusive, whereas MRI results showed extensive damage of the spinal cord and vertebral column, precluding functional recovery. The 2 surviving birds were euthanatized. In all birds, MRI assessments correlated well with necropsy and histopathologic findings.
30134490|An adult female green-winged macaw (Ara chloroptera) with cloacal and choanal papillomas had a pancreatic adenocarcinoma with metastasis to the liver that was revealed by necropsy. An intestinal adenocarcinoma with metastasis to the liver was revealed by necropsy in a 6-year-old male macaw (Ara sp.) that had a history of cloacal and choanal papillomas that were surgically removed. These neoplasms have rarely been reported in pet birds. A possible relationship of these tumors with the cloacal and choanal papillomas is suggested, as papillomas, which commonly develop in psittacine birds, have been associated with the development of bile ductular neoplasms and other disturbances of epithelial cell growth in psittacines. Metastasis was noted in both birds in this report, which has rarely been reported with pet bird neoplasms.
30135229|An adult male wompoo fruit-dove (Ptilinopus magnificus) was examined because of repeated facial trauma that was first observed and evaluated 3 months previously. On physical examination, the upper eyelid was swollen and one nematode was observed on the cornea. Topical anesthesia of the eye facilitated removal of three adult female and one adult male ocular nematodes. The dove was treated with a topical ophthalmologic preparation of ivermectin and recovered uneventfully. The ocular nematodes were examined morphologically and identified as Ceratospira inglisi. This parasite is rarely observed in birds, and its life cycle has not been determined.
40236565|Deferiprone is a bidentate oral iron chelator used for the treatment of transfusional iron overload in people. The purpose of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetic disposition of deferiprone in the white leghorn chicken as a potential model upon which to base therapeutic regimens for the treatment of iron storage disease (hemochromatosis) in affected avian species. A suspension of deferiprone (DFP) was administered orally at a single dose of 50 mg/kg to 10 birds that were iron-loaded (IL-DFP) and 10 non-iron-loaded control birds (NIL-DFP). After a 30-day washout period, 5 birds from the NIL-DFP group were used for a bioavailability study of deferiprone administered intravenously at the same dose. Blood samples were collected at varying intervals over a 24-hour period and were analyzed for deferiprone by high-performance liquid chromatography, then plasma concentration versus time curves were developed. Deferiprone was rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract of the chicken, with plasma concentrations effective for iron chelation in humans (> 20 mol/L) maintained for at least 8 hours after oral dosing. The half-life (mean  SD) of the orally administered deferiprone in the IL-DFP and NIL-DFP groups was 2.91  0.78 hours and 3.61  0.90 hours, respectively, and was 2.42  0.24 hours for deferiprone administered intravenously. The mean oral bioavailability was 93%. Deferiprone is well absorbed and widely distributed in the chicken, with a longer half-life than reported in mammals.
24623517|A 4-year-old male umbrella cockatoo (Cacatua alba) with a history of ingestion of foreign material from chewing on a household appliance presented for lethargy, inappetance, and regurgitation of 2 days duration. Foreign bodies identified on radiograph included a wire 2 cm in length in the proventriculus, a wire 3 cm in length in the ventriculus, and several pieces of rubber and plastic throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Diagnosis of a perforating ventricular foreign body was made through plain and contrast radiography. The proventricular wire was removed endoscopically but endoscopic retrieval was not successful in locating the ventricular wire. A ventriculotomy was done to remove the wire, which had perforated the ventriculus cranially and imbedded into the parenchyma of the liver. The wire was extracted from the center of a large nonresectable granuloma that incorporated the left liver lobe. The bird recovered from surgery but died from complications 3 months later. Postmortem examination revealed localized coelomitis and hepatic necrosis associated with the perforation.
30133187|A syndrome of sudden death in captive orange-bellied parrots (Neophema chrysogaster) was associated with zinc toxicosis. A total of 77 birds was examined, with most being found dead in good flesh with no histologic lesions. Affected birds had a mean zinc level of 154.3 g/g in the kidneys, 289.8 g/g in the liver, and 723.6 g/g in the pancreas. These values were compared with a mean zinc level of 65.3 g/g in kidneys of unaffected birds. Additionally, the fertility rate in this population of captive parrots was 54% in 1995-96, 59% in 1996-97, and 66% in 1997-98. After all galvanized wire was replaced with nylon mesh before the 1998-99 breeding season, the fertility rate increased to 86%. Ingestion of zinc can affect the central nervous system, and birds with neurologic signs may have died as a result of colliding with walls or structures in the aviaries. The absence of histologic lesions usually associated with zinc toxicosis in affected birds may have been related to acute head trauma as the cause of death.
30135230|Primary, malignant gastric neoplasms are uncommon in psittacine birds, and carcinoma of the proventriculus is more frequently reported than that of the ventriculus. An 18-year-old sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua galerita) was examined because of intermittent diarrhea for 1 month, undigested seeds in the feces, and weight loss. Abnormal laboratory findings included lymphopenia, mild nonregenerative anemia, hypocalcemia, and hypophosphatemia. Whole-body radiographs showed a large mass in the caudal coelomic cavity; this mass was identified by ultrasound examination to be the ventriculus with a grossly thickened wall. Antemortem diagnosis of carcinoma of the ventriculus was made on the basis of ultrasound results and biopsy. Metastasis to the lungs was found on histopathic examination.
40236564|Generalized feather abnormalities are rarely documented in free-living birds. Pinching off syndrome (POS) is a feather abnormality in which all remiges and retrices become malformed and are lost during the nestling stage, rendering the bird unable to fly. To determine the frequency of occurrence and geographic distribution of this syndrome in white-tailed sea eagles (Haliaeetus albicilla) in Europe, we sent questionnaires to ornithologists in 19 countries within the European range of this species. We also searched for reported cases of sea eagles with feather abnormalities that met the criteria of POS. Overall, 32 nestlings or fledglings with POS were identified between 1975 and 2006. The geographic distribution of cases was primarily restricted to 4 European countries: Germany (17 cases), Poland (11 cases), the Czech Republic (3 cases), and Great Britain (1 case). Eleven eagles from Germany and 2 eagles from the Czech Republic were examined clinically. In 15 birds in which sex was determined, 8 were female and 7 were male. From 2000 to 2005, the 5-year incidence of POS in white-tailed sea eagles in Germany was 3.5 cases per 1000 birds. Although the etiology of this syndrome in wild sea eagles is unknown, our results support a possible genetic cause.
30135244|Ten psittacine birds (3 African grey parrots [Psittacus erithacus], 3 blue and gold macaws [Ara ararauna], 2 scarlet macaws [Ara macao], a harlequin macaw [Ara ararauna x macao], and a yellow-naped Amazon parrot [Amazona ochrocephala auropalliata]) with histories of chronic sinusitis were referred for evaluation before possible surgical therapy. The duration of clinical signs in these birds ranged from 8 months to 11 years, and response to conventional medical therapy had been poor. Diagnostic procedures performed in each bird included a physical examination, complete blood count, plasma biochemical analysis, survey whole body and skull radiographs, and skull magnetic resonance imaging. In 7 of the 10 birds, a discrete lesion was localized by using magnetic resonance imaging. Six of these 7 birds had surgery performed to remove the lesion. Four granulomas, a mucocele, and a polyp were diagnosed by histopathologic examination. The chronic sinusitis resolved after surgery in 5 birds. Magnetic resonance imaging proved to be an excellent diagnostic tool for examining the avian infraorbital sinus, allowing identification, localization, and characterization of lesions within the sinuses.
27823459|In wild birds implanted intracoelomically with radio transmitters, a synthetic fabric collar placed around the base of a percutaneous antenna is believed to function as a barrier to contamination of the coelom. We examined 13 fabric collars recovered from percutaneous antennas of radio transmitters implanted intracoelomically in harlequin ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) 12 months earlier. Both the transmitters and antenna collars were encapsulated in fibrous connective tissue, with adhesions to internal organs. Histologically, bacteria were evident at the fabric-plastic interface in 8 of 10 collars examined in cross section and along the length of the collar in 3 collars examined longitudinally. Bacteria were confined within the fibrotic sheath surrounding the transmitter and the antenna collar in all birds. No evidence of chronic systemic effects secondary to implantation was present on hematologic or serum biochemical testing. These findings indicate that antenna collars do not prevent the entry of bacteria along the percutaneous antenna but may help stabilize the antenna and minimize coelomic contamination. We conclude that radio transmitters implanted into the coelom of harlequin ducks do not appear to cause significant health problems for at least 1 year after implantation.
40984800|Even when different diagnostic modalities are available, mycobacteriosis is difficult to diagnose in a live bird. To investigate the diagnostic value of sampling different tissues and using different diagnostic methods, we evaluated results of mycobacterial culture, Ziehl-Neelsen (ZN) staining, and single-amplification polymerase chain reaction assay (PCR) of 18 ring-neck doves (Streptopelia risoria) with confirmed natural infection with Mycobacterium avium avium. Results of testing liver biopsy, duodenal aspirate, and bone marrow aspirate samples and liver and spleen samples collected at necropsy were compared. Results showed the use of one single technique did not allow identification of all infected birds. In liver biopsy and bone marrow aspirate samples, culture had the highest sensitivity, whereas PCR assay and ZN staining had low sensitivity, and their combination was less sensitive than culture alone. Examination of ZN staining of the intestinal aspirate samples failed to detect infection in most birds. More splenic lesions contained acid-fast organisms than did liver lesions, suggesting that splenic biopsy may have the greatest potential for diagnosis of mycobacterial infection antemortem. Sensitivity was higher for postmortem examination of multiple liver sections than of a single biopsy section; therefore, obtaining multiple liver biopsy sections may increase detection of mycobacteria. Examination of multiple tissues and the use of several different diagnostic techniques significantly increases the probability of diagnosis of mycobacteriosis.
40236492|Managing large open wounds in birds is challenging because of the limited amount of skin and the difficulties associated with bandaging. New techniques involving the use of skin flaps, autografts, and extracellular matrix grafts are emerging to the forefront of wound management as viable options in avian patients. Understanding the anatomy of the avian integument is important when considering the use of one of these forms of reconstruction as a wound management technique in birds. Here we review the use of skin grafts and flaps in avian patients in relation to the anatomy of the avian integumentary.
30133104|Rectal infusion of hypotonic solution in four out of six fluid-deprived, healthy pigeons was shown to be an effective method of fluid administration. The success of this method is explained by the presence of physiologic adaptations in the avian rectum for rectal modification of ureteral urine. The failure to achieve fluid homeostasis in two pigeons possibly resulted from catheterinduced hyperperistaltic movement that prevented fluid resorption. We suggest that, after improvement of the technique, rectal infusion can be a good alternative route of fluid administration in birds when other methods are less appropriate.
41682476|Avian bornavirus (ABV) is a known cause of proventricular dilatation disease in parrots and encephalitis in waterfowl and is a significant cause of both morbidity and mortality in captive birds. Transmission is thought to occur primarily by the fecal-oral route. In an aviary setting, controlling the disease involves a thorough understanding of the complete transmission cycle, including determining whether vertical transmission occurs. In this study, vertical transmission of ABV was evaluated by using 61 eggs obtained from birds in 2 aviaries where proventricular dilatation disease was prevalent, and the presence of ABV had been confirmed by fecal reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction by using a primer set designed to detect ABV M protein. The contents of these eggs were then tested for the presence of ABV RNA. Of the eggs tested, 10 were determined to contain ABV RNA. These eggs ranged from apparently nonviable to those that contained developing embryos. ABV was detected in the brain tissue of 2 embryos. It remains to be proven that infected chicks can hatch from these eggs to complete the vertical transmission cycle; however, these findings suggest that vertical transmission of ABV may occur.
30130668|Necrotizing hepatitis was seen in nestling sulphur-crested cockatoos (Cacatua galerita) with experimentally induced psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD). Affected livers contained focal areas of necrosis, and biliary epithelial cells contained markedly swollen basophilic nuclei. An immunoperoxidase stain was used to demonstrate intranuclear and intracytoplasmic PBFD virus antigen in cells of the bursa of Fabricius, skin, feathers, liver, spleen, and kidney. High PBFD virus titers were detected in feathers, liver tissue, and bile.
30133093|A surgical technique for renal biopsy by a dorsal pelvic approach was developed in helmeted guinea fowl (Numida meleagris), domestic pigeons (Columba livia domestica), Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica), Pekin ducks (Anas platyrhynchos), Indian peafowl (Pavo cristatus), and cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus). Presurgical and postsurgical uric acid concentrations were within reference ranges and correlated with histopathologic interpretation of biopsy samples. Biopsy samples were adequate for histopathologic examination of the cortical elements of the avian kidney. All birds survived the procedure and few complications were observed. This technique for renal biopsy in birds is compared with current techniques that require an abdominal approach and expensive instrumentation.
41496984|An adult, male double yellow-headed Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala oratrix) was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia based on results of a complete blood cell count and cytologic examination of a bone marrow aspirate. Treatment with oral chlorambucil was attempted, but no response was evident after 40 days. The bird was euthanatized, and the diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia was confirmed on gross and microscopic examination of tissues. Neoplastic lymphocytes were found in the bone marrow, liver, kidney, testes, and blood vessels. Based on CD3-positive immunocytochemical and immunohistochemical immunophenotyping, the chronic lymphocytic leukemia was determined to be of T-cell origin.
30133139|Iohexol, a nonionic, iodinated contrast medium, was evaluated as an alternative to barium sulfate suspension for radiographic studies of the avian gastrointestinal tract. Iohexol, prepared undiluted or diluted with tap water 1:1 or 1:2, was given by gavage tube to unanesthetized, mid-sized psittacine birds (four Amazon parrots and one cockatoo). The volume of iohexol or barium administered was based on each bird's estimated crop volume; the dose was determined retrospectively as 25-30 ml/kg. After the contrast media was administered, ventrodorsal and lateral radiographic views were taken immediately, at 15 and 30 minutes, at 1 hour, and then at hourly intervals until the contrast medium reached the cloaca. When compared with barium sulfate studies, radiographs of birds given iohexol (25-30 ml/kg), either undiluted or diluted 1:1, were of equal quality to those of birds given barium, in terms of opacification of the gastrointestinal tract lumen and the ability to evaluate all portions adequately. An advantage of iohexol was its rapid transit time when compared with barium. Dilution of iohexol at ratios greater than 1:1 is not recommended, as it resulted in poor opacification of gastrointestinal structures.
40984808|A 32-year-old green-winged macaw (Ara chloroptera) was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia based on progressive lymphocytosis and the presence of a monomorphic population of well-differentiated lymphocytes in the bone marrow of a clinically normal bird. Chemotherapy was initiated because of rapidly increasing peripheral lymphocyte counts. In addition to oral prednisone (1 mg/kg once daily), oral chlorambucil (1 mg/kg twice weekly) was initiated but was discontinued after 6 weeks because of thrombocytopenia. The leukocyte count was stabilized for 29 weeks with the concurrent use of oral cyclophosphamide (5 mg/kg 4 d/wk) and daily prednisone, and the bird exhibited a good quality of life. The bird died shortly after the chemotherapy was inadvertently discontinued. The neoplastic cells from this macaw stained positive for CD-3 antibody and negative for Bla. 36, suggesting the leukemia was of T-cell origin. This is the first report of long-term treatment of a macaw with cyclophosphamide and documents thrombocytopenia in a macaw secondary to chlorambucil treatment.
27670686|Blood samples were collected from 20 Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) and were divided into tubes that contained dipotassium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (K2EDTA) and lithium heparin. Complete blood cell counts were determined in each sample within 2 hours of collection. The level of agreement in results was moderate for plasma cell volume (PVC), and leukocyte, monocyte, and lymphocyte counts between the anticoagulants. Plasma protein and PCV values were significantly lower in samples with lithium heparin than in those with K2EDTA, whereas lymphocyte numbers were significantly higher in lithium heparin samples than in K2EDTA samples. The level of agreement was good for the other cell types (heterophils, eosinophils, and basophils) when comparing the different anticoagulants. The poor level of agreement between anticoagulants with the increase in thrombocyte clumping in lithium heparin samples indicates that the use of lithium heparin as anticoagulant may affect thrombocyte count. No negative effects on morphology and staining of blood cells were apparent in smears from heparin samples compared with K2EDTA samples. Within the different values compared, the limits of agreement are small enough to be confident that lithium heparin can be used for routine CBC counts in a clinical setting. The use of the same anticoagulant should be recommended to follow trends within the same patient, especially when considering plasma protein concentration, PCV, and lymphocyte count.
41318125|Avian veterinarians and pet bird owners were solicited to participate in online surveys to gather information about behavior problems in pet birds. A total of 84 avian veterinarians' and 203 psittacine bird owners' responses were analyzed. Behaviors with a high prevalence and a high level of owner concern, in descending order, were aggression, screaming, and feather picking. Veterinarians reported that the most common behavior problems presented to them were feather picking, chronic egg laying, aggression, and screaming, in that order. Most owners seeking advice went elsewhere before talking to their veterinarian. When consulted, most veterinarians recommended a combination of a medical workup, nutritional changes, housing changes, and environmental enrichments for these problem behaviors. Because owners do not often seek a veterinarian's advice, behavior problems exist in birds that are not being addressed by veterinarians. Advising veterinarians to question owners about problem behaviors at every visit will facilitate discussion and improve the treatment and welfare of pet psittacine birds.
27823460|To evaluate a minimally invasive endosurgical system in birds, endoscopic orchidectomy and salpingohysterectomy were evaluated in 11 male and 14 female pigeons (Columba livia). Anesthesia was maintained by using isoflurane delivered by a pressure-cycle ventilator and produced good to excellent anesthesia during 96% of procedures. Endosurgery was performed with a 2.7-mm telescope system, 3-mm human pediatric laparoscopy instruments, and a 4.0-MHz radiofrequency device. Mean  SD surgery times for bilateral orchidectomy and salpingohysterectomy procedures were 39  18 minutes and 34  15 minutes, respectively. Procedures were generally straightforward, with any minor complications easily overcome. Surgical complications were generally minor, with mild hemorrhage and focal coagulative damage to the kidney being most common. All pigeons recovered quickly (20  11 minutes), with 95% displaying good to excellent recoveries. No birds exhibited any clinically apparent morbidity or mortality associated with endosurgery. At least 1 male and 1 female bird were subjected to elective euthanasia and necropsy on postoperative days 1, 3, 5, 10, 20, and 90 to determine the success and side effects of surgery. Gross and histologic abnormalities, when observed, were generally mild, with hemorrhage and partial necrosis of the cranial kidney present in 27% of males. Mild damage or hematoma associated with the left kidney was also reported in 28% of females. The surgical objectives were achieved in 23 of 25 pigeons. The 2 surgical failures (regenerated testes in a male and large oviductal remnant in a female) were attributed to endosurgical inexperience and occurred during the first procedures. (Salpingohysterectomy does not appear to prevent ovarian development and ovulation in the pigeon, at least not during the first 3 postoperative months. Orchidectomy and salpingohysterectomy appear to be safe procedures when performed using appropriate equipment and techniques. Endosurgery offers a valuable, minimally invasive alternative to the standard coeliotomy techniques commonly used in birds.
40236579|A 4.5-kg, adult bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was presented after being found unable to fly. Crepitus was palpated in the left shoulder; however, the wing position was normal. Radiographs revealed caudoventral luxation of the left coracoid, affecting its distal articulation with the clavicle and its proximal articulation with the sternum. The luxation affecting the coracoid-sternum articulation was repaired by using a 4-hole, 1.5-mm T-plate and a 6-hole, 2.0-mm dynamic compression plate (DCP) placed side by side. The luxation affecting the coracoid and the clavicle was repaired by 2 cerclage wires in a simple interrupted pattern. Before a scheduled release, the bird sustained a closed, complete mid diaphyseal transverse fracture of the right tibiotarsus, which most likely occurred during recapture from the flight cage. The fracture was surgically repaired with 2 circumferential cerclage wires, an intramedullary Kirschner wire and one 10-hole, 2.7-mm DCP. The bird was successfully released, 105 days after the first surgery, near the location where it was found.
40236553|Techniques for endoscopic biopsy of the spleen and bursa of Fabricius were evaluated in 71 juvenile and adult white Carneau pigeons (Columba livid). Splenic biopsy was performed under isoflurane anesthesia by a left lateral approach to the coelom from behind the last rib. From within the left abdominal air sac, the spleen was located just caudal to the isthmus of the proventriculus and ventriculus and ventral to the gonad in 86% of pigeons examined. In the remaining 14%, extensive reproductive activity within mature female pigeons prevented visualization of the spleen. Splenic biopsy samples were successfully obtained from all birds in which the spleen could be found, and all were determined to be of good to excellent histologic quality. Endoscopic biopsy of the bursa of Fabricius was accomplished by cloacoscopy and saline irrigation with the pigeons in dorsal recumbency. The bursa of Fabricius was located and a biopsy was done in 28 (39%) of 71 pigeons. Initial histopathologic evaluation indicated that only 30% of the biopsy samples possessed lymphoid tissue of diagnostic quality. Splenic biopsy via coelioscopy appeared safe and rewarding in pigeons. Cloacoscopy provided an excellent view of the cloaca and appeared to be well tolerated; however, biopsy of the bursa of Fabricius is not recommended because of poor diagnostic value of the specimens and the risk of cloacal perforation.
27823417|Endoscopy has proven to be an important diagnostic tool for avian veterinarians to observe and biopsy internal structures. To date, most of the described endoscopic procedures are single-entry techniques. The use of miniature endoscopic equipment has been pioneered in human pediatric laparoscopy, and many of these techniques can be used in avian medicine. The addition of a second and third port using 2.5- or 3.5-mm cannulae has facilitated the use of 2- or 3-mm instruments within the avian coelom. Triangulation of various instruments coupled with radiosurgical hemostasis has made several endoscopic procedures possible, including salpingohysterectomy and orchidectomy. In addition, endoscope-assisted, minimally invasive procedures, including enterotomy, enterectomy, cloacopexy, and pneumotomy, may be initiated internally and completed by standard surgical techniques. The advent of minimally invasive endoscopic surgery offers important benefits, including rapid and accurate diagnosis, reduced need for an extensive coeliotomy, reduced surgical stress, improved pulmonary function, more stable anesthesia, and reduced surgical and hospitalization periods.
30135164|A blue-fronted Amazon parrot (Amazona aestiva) was examined because of intermittent cloacal prolapse of 1-month duration. A 2-cm erythematous mass was found protruding from the cloaca and was excised. The histologic diagnosis of the mass was leiomyosarcoma. Eight months later, the parrot was examined a second time because of cloacal prolapse. A 1.5-cm mass protruded from the cloaca, and an aggressive radical excision of the mass was done. Results of histologic examination of this mass were consistant with leiomyoma. The suspected tissue of origin was the uterus or oviduct, of which only a remnant was found after removal of the tumor. The disparity in the histologic diagnosis of the two masses was thought to reflect variability in tumor behavior. This unique case of leiomyosarcoma presenting as a cloacal mass in an Amazon parrot confirms the importance of histologic evaluation of all cloacal masses.
30136901|This study reports the content of iron and selected minerals from food items commonly ingested by keel-billed toucans (Ramphastos sulfuratus) in their native habitat in Belize, Central America. These same minerals were analyzed and compared with those found in a commercially prepared diet that was formulated to be low in iron. Seven of the food items collected from the wild had a total iron content  50 g/g, whereas the remaining food items were 150 g/g (except for 1 plant item). In contrast, the low-iron diet contained 210 g/g of iron on a dry-matter basis. This study suggests that iron overload from feeding a commercial diet may contribute to the development of iron storage (disease) in captive toucans and other iron-sensitive species.
40236593|Between September 1998 and December 2006, 87 injured or sick free-ranging whitetailed sea eagles (Haliaeetus albicilla) from Germany were admitted to the Small Animal Clinic, Free University of Berlin. Most birds were adults (43%) followed by nestlings/ fledglings (26%), immature birds (18%), and juveniles (13%). In all age groups more females than males were presented. Birds with trauma-associated injuries were most often admitted, followed by lead toxicosis and feather anomalies in fledglings. Collision with anthropogenic structures was the most common cause of injuries in all age classes. Lesions caused by intraspeciflc aggressions were mainly found in adults, whereas a generalized feather abnormality (pinching off syndrome) was diagnosed only in fledglings. Of all birds, 25% were released back to the wild, 21% died, and 54% were not releasable or were euthanatized.
30130699|Twelve adult female saker falcons developed reduced appetite, progressive weight loss, and unilateral or bilateral sinusitis. Nodular white or yellow caseous lesions were visible on the oropharynx and tongue of all birds. One falcon had 2 caseous masses on either side of the tracheobronchial syrinx, resulting in severe tracheal stenosis. All 12 birds had a history of mild to moderate trichomonal infections 3-4 weeks before examination. In all birds, bacterial culture of samples from these masses yielded pure growths of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The birds were treated with a combination of piperacillin (100 mg/kg) and tobramycin (10 mg/kg) administered intramuscularly ql2h for 7 days. Oropharyngeal lesions were debrided, and the oral cavity of each bird was sprayed with a 1% povidone iodine mouthwash preparation. In birds with unilateral or bilateral sinusitis, a solution of 0.2 ml of a 5% chlorhexidine gluconate preparation diluted to 20 ml with sterile saline was used to flush the affected sinus q12h for 3-5 days. Tracheal masses in the 1 falcon were removed by curettage during tracheoscopy. Oropharyngeal lesions in all birds were completely resolved within 8-18 days of treatment. Trichomoniasis coupled with stress during the training and hunting seasons may have predisposed these falcons to infection with P aeruginosa.
30133170|Three young black-capped parakeets (Pyrrhura rupicola) died after developing clinical signs of lethargy, inappetence, and progressive abdominal distension. Abdominal fluid was present in two birds at necropsy, and serositis was confirmed in one bird by histologic examination of tissue samples. Viral culture of tissue samples submitted from one bird revealed viruslike particles. These particles had a similar morphology and cytopathic effect to a viruslike particle that had been previously recovered from birds with confirmed proventricular dilatation syndrome.
40236592|Feather damaging behavior is a common problem in African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus). To determine if differences in clinical test results could be detected in parrots with feather damaging behavior (FDB), we studied 51 parrots, including 24 with FDB, with a variety of diagnostic tests. A predictable stress hemogram was found after administration of thyroidstimulating hormone in both normal birds and birds with FDB. Birds with FDB had significantly lower lymphocyte counts and higher heterophil: lymphocyte ratios after thyroidstimulating hormone injection than did normal birds. Although resting thyroxine (T) levels were not different between the 2 groups, the magnitude of the post-thyroid-stimulating-hormone increase in T was significantly less in the FDB group. Alpha-1 and alpha-2 globulin fractions were significantly higher and gamma globulin fractions were significantly lower in birds with FDB. Birds with FDB also had higher Aspergillus antibody titers. No significant differences were found in Aspergillus antigen levels, Candida antibody titers, or blood concentrations of histamine, serotonin, or corticosterone. The clinical significance of these differences is not known.
30134872|Serum corticosterone concentrations were evaluated in 40 adult Hispaniolan Amazon parrots (Amazona ventralis) after manual restraint and anesthesia and before and after skin testing. Twenty-four to 72 hours before the skin testing, blood samples were collected immediately after capture from manually restrained birds. On 2 separate days, half of the parrots in the study group (20 birds each) were anesthetized with isoflurane, and blood samples were taken immediately before and at 2.5, 7.5, and 17 minutes after skin testing. Serum samples were assayed by radioimmunoassay for corticosterone concentration. Although baseline corticosterone concentrations plotted against time varied in both anesthetized and manually restrained parrots, a downward trend was seen at 1400 hours (anesthetized birds) and at 1300 hours (manually restrained birds). The mean baseline concentration (SEM) of corticosterone measured in birds that were manually restrained was significantly higher (33.7  2.83 ng/ml) than that in anesthetized birds (19.8  1.97 ng/ml). Mean corticosterone concentrations (SEM) in anesthetized birds increased progressively after skin testing, from 19.8  2.02 ng/ml before skin testing to 52.7  2.63 ng/ml at 2.5 minutes, 63.1  2.3 ng/ml at 7.5 minutes, and 74.5  2.79 ng/ml at 17.0 minutes after skin testing. In birds, this increase in serum corticosterone concentration may account for the weak wheal formation observed during skin testing and emphasizes the need to read skin test results within a few minutes after intradermal injection.
30133168|Squamous cell carcinoma, primarily involving the integumentary and gastrointestinal systems, has been reported in diverse avian species, including macaws. However, reports of squamous cell carcinoma of the beak are uncommon. Squamous cell carcinoma of the mandibular beak was identified in a 28.5-year-old Buffon's macaw (Ara ambigua) that was presented for examination of a chronic beak infection. The lesion was surgically debulked, and antibiotics were given based on sensitivity testing. Cobalt-60 radiation therapy was administered by using a radiation dosage and approach extrapolated from small animal protocols. In this case, a total minimum tumor dose of 5,600 cGy was given after the initial dose of 4,800 cGy was boosted with an additional 800 cGy. However, after the course of radiation, there was no evidence of radiation damage nor any histologic evidence that the radiation had affected the tumor. The bird lost weight and became anorexic, and gavage feeding was initiated. Subsequent treatments included further surgical debulking, antifungal therapy, and intralesional cisplatin, which was administered at one half of the established mammalian dose. The bird then showed bilateral periorbital swelling; weight loss continued despite gavage feeding. Ataxia and hematologic abnormalities were recorded before the bird died. Evidence of metastasis was not observed on necropsy. Because of the failure to produce expected tumor kill, further studies are needed to determine avian doses and tolerance for radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
27823338|A total of 7085 falcons were presented for examination during a 56-month period from September 1998 to May 2003 at the Falcon Specialist Hospital and Research Institute of the Fahad bin Sultan Falcon Center, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We diagnosed infection with Trichomonas gallinae in 393 of 7085 (5.5%) falcons examined, including 346 (88%) saker falcons (Falco cherrug), 30 (8%) peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus), 8 (2%) lanner falcons (Falco biarmicus), 5 (1%) gyr falcons (Falco rusticolus), and 4 (1%) gyr hybrid falcons. Trichomoniasis appears to be directly linked to the traditional Arab falconry practices of training falcons using live domestic pigeons (Columba livia) and feeding them freshly killed domestic pigeons and doves (Streptopelia species). Anatomical sites affected included the oropharynx (63% of birds), crop (31%), esophagus (10%), nasal cavity (4%), infraorbital sinus (5%), and syrinx (2%); more than 1 anatomical site was affected in some birds. The less common, atypical presentations of trichomoniasis could present a diagnostic challenge to the attending clinician. The diagnosis of trichomoniasis was confirmed by observing T gallinae on wet-mount preparations of samples collected from the lesions using moistened microbiology swabs. The primary therapeutic protocol for clinical trichomoniasis included metronidazole at a dosage of 100 mg/kg PO q24h for 3 days and supportive care. At 37 days after completing the course of metronidazole, we surgically debrided the trichomonal lesions as necessary, depending on the severity and location of the infection. Resolution of T gallinae infections was satisfactory in most cases. Four falcons died secondary to the infection.
40793251|Infection with pigeon circo virus (PiCV) has been associateci with young pigeon disease syndrome (YPDS), which is considered to be a multifactorial disease. The factors that determine whether birds succumb to clinical disease are not known. To evaluate the potential effect of vaccination with a commercial paratyphus vaccine on the progression of PiCV infection in young pigeons, forty 6-week-old pigeons naturally infected with PiCV were randomly assigned to two equal groups. The pigeons of one group were vaccinated at 6 and 9 weeks of age, and pigeons of the second group were unvaccinated controls. Cloacal swab and blood samples collected from all the birds were tested for PiCV by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. Three weeks after the second vaccination, all pigeons were euthanatized, and tissues were collected for PiCV PCR analysis and histopathologic evaluation. No significant difference in the number of PCR-positive cloacal swab and blood samples was found between the vaccinated and control pigeons. Positive PCR results in tissue samples also were not significantly different between the groups, with 18 positive samples in vaccinated birds (90%) and 16 in control birds (80%). Characteristic botryoid inclusions were detected in more vaccinated than control pigeons, but this difference was not significant. In this study, vaccination with a commercial paratyphus vaccine was not a risk factor for development of young pigeon disease syndrome.
41826549|A 22-year-old female African black-footed penguin (Spheniscus demersus), housed indoors with other African and rockhopper penguins, was presented acutely with lethargy, ataxia, and hind limb weakness after a molt. The penguin would assume a hunched position and, when resting, sat on its hocks or lay on its keel. Physical and neurologic examination revealed hind limb paraparesis, proprioceptive deficits, and tiptoe walking. Results of a complete blood cell count and biochemical analysis revealed mild heterophilic leukocytosis, anemia, mild hypoalbuminemia, hypokalemia, and hyperuricemia. Results of whole-body radiographs and coelioscopy were unremarkable. Two computed tomographies of the spine at a 3-month interval revealed a lesion at the mobile thoracic vertebra proximal to the synsacrum with associated spinal cord compression. The penguin was treated with itraconazole, doxycycline, and meloxicam, and it initially improved with return to near normal gait and behavior. However, 5 months after the onset of clinical signs, the penguin was euthanatized after a relapse with worsening of the neurologic signs. Postmortem and histopathologic examination revealed focal granulomatous discospondylitis at the penultimate mobile thoracic vertebra, with intralesional bacteria from which Staphylococcus aureus was cultured.
30130716|A diagnosis of adverse extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) was reached in a 14-year-old female blue and gold macaw (Ara ararauna) that presented with disseminated dystonia (manifesting as pacing, head bobbing, and circling), intermittent ataxia, and coarse-muscle tremors of 60 hours duration. The patient had been treated 23 days previously with haloperidol decanoate (1.7 mg/kg IM once), and for 3 days before hospitalization with clomipramine HCI at a prescribed dosage of 3.9 mg/kg PO q12h. The patient was treated with supportive care, a gradual reduction in the clomipramine dose, and intramuscular and oral diphenhydramine (2 mg/kg q12h). As commonly observed in human patients with drug-induced EPS, a dramatic resolution of clinical signs was observed within 2 hours after the first intramuscular administration of diphenhydramine. It is recommended that EPS be considered in macaws experiencing neurologic signs secondary to clomipramine administration and, in particular, in those treated concurrently or previously with haloperidol.
30130698|In the face of increasing bacterial drug resistance because of -lactamase production, many microbial infections can be treated effectively by combining clavulanic acid with amoxicillin. Judicious drug use that includes defining the optimum dosage is important to control development of resistance to this drug combination. In this study, amoxicillin and clavulanic acid were administered to blue-fronted Amazon parrots (Amazona aestiva aestiva) in a multiple dosing trial. Birds were gavaged with 125 mg/kg of the drug combination at 0800, 1600, and 2200 hours on days 15. The half-lives of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid were similar to those in humans; however, the area under the curve was increased in the parrots compared with humans. These results suggest that this drug combination, at this dosing interval, achieves levels that may be effective against many bacterial species.
30134221|A 2-year-old DNA-sexed female Congo African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus erithacus) was evaluated for self-trauma of the feathers and skin of the tail base for a duration of more than 1 year. All rectrices and tail coverts were missing, the skin of the tail base was thickened and ulcerated, and the uropygial gland was swollen. Results of a complete blood cell count revealed relative monocytosis and basophilia. Survey radiographs showed truncation and lysis of the caudal vertebrae and pygostyle. Results of biopsy and bacterial culture of the tail base lesions revealed an ulcerative bacterial dermatitis positive for staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) type IV (community-acquired) methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The bird was treated with oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, meloxicam, fluoxetine, topical lidocaine gel, and hydrotherapy. One month later, tail feather regrowth was evident; however, follow-up over 2 years found continued self-trauma to the rectrices in spite of repeated skin biopsies negative for MRSA or other bacteria. It is unknown if the MRSA cultured from this bird was commensal or acquired from either the environment or humans to which the bird was exposed.
30133202|Unilateral pentadactyly and its surgical resolution are described in a 75-day-old female yellow-shouldered Amazon (Amazona barbadensis). The bird had a malformed left pes, whereas the axial skeleton and the thoracic and pelvic limbs skeleton were normal radiographically and clinically, excluding the left pes. The only clinical sign observed was lameness. The male clutchmates were normal on orthopedic examination. The affected bird underwent surgery successfully for removal of the supernumerary digit. The bird exhibited some distress after the amputation of the extra digit, but 3 months later, was perching and behaving normally. Treatment is recommended as soon as possible after presentation, preferably before the bird begins perching. The recommendation is made that birds with unilateral or bilateral polydactyly not be used for breeding, because this condition may have a genetic component.
27670692|West Nile virus causes sporadic disease in the Eastern hemisphere that is often asymptomatic or mild, whereas in the Western hemisphere, West Nile has been associated with illness and profound mortality in many avian species. West Nile virus might have been transported to North America by an infected mosquito or the virus could have entered within a vertebrate host like a bird. Although the most important method of West Nile virus transmission is by Culex species mosquitoes, additional modes of transmission have been identified. West Nile virus has been isolated from almost 300 species of Western birds. The long-term effects on common species such as corvids, sparrows, grackles, finches, hawks, and robins are still being debated. However the potential effect of West Nile virus on small populations or species with limited geographic distribution, such as Hawaiian avifauna, could be much more catastrophic.
30134199|Avian influenza is a disease of both veterinary and public health importance. Influenza A viruses infect a range of hosts, including humans, and can cause significant morbidity and mortality. These viruses have high genetic variability, and new strains develop through both mutation and reassortment. Modes of transmission as well as the location of viral shedding may differ both by host species and by viral strain. Clinical signs of influenza A virus infection in birds vary considerably depending on the viral subtype, environmental factors, and age, health status, and species of the bird and range from decreased egg production and gastrointestinal manifestations to nervous system disorders and respiratory signs. Most commonly, peracute death with minimal clinical disease is observed in poultry infected with a highly pathogenic avian influenza virus. There are various prevention and control strategies for avian influenza, including education, biosecurity, surveillance, culling of infected animals, and vaccination. These strategies will differ by institution and current federal regulations. Each institution should have an established biosecurity protocol that can be properly instituted. Lastly, human health precautions, such as proper hand hygiene, personal protective equipment, and employee health monitoring, are imperative for at-risk individuals.
41497485|Hypocalcemic-induced seizure activity is a clinical entity that is commonly diagnosed in neurologic African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus). Plasma calcium levels are typically less than 6.0 mg/dL at the time of seizure activity, and although the underlying cause of the hypocalcemia has not yet been determined, many theories have been proposed. An African grey parrot that had been fed a seed diet for 8 years was presented with hypocalcemia and seizures and exhibited precipitously declining plasma calcium levels, despite aggressive calcium and vitamin A, D, and E supplementation for 4 days. Baseline magnesium levels in this parrot were determined to be 1.9 mg/dL; therefore, magnesium sulfate was administered at a dose of 20 mg/kg IM once. Twenty-four hours after supplementation, the plasma magnesium level was 3.3 mg/dL, and no further seizure activity was observed. We believe that a primary dietary magnesium deficiency may have been present in this African grey parrot, similar to a syndrome in leghorn chicks, which is frequently characterized by progressive hypocalcemia that is unable to be corrected by calcium supplementation alone.
30135242|Enrofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic that is effective against many of the common gram-negative bacterial pathogens in raptors. This 3-period crossover study was designed to compare the pharmacokinetics of enrofloxacin after oral, intramuscular, or intravenous administration in red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis; n = 8) and great horned owls (Bubo virginianus; n = 5). In each study period, birds received a single dose of an injectable formulation of enrofloxacin (15 mg/kg) by 1 of these 3 routes. Oral administration was accomplished by force-feeding each bird a small freshly killed mouse that had received an intraperitoneal injection of enrofloxacin (inprey). Intramuscular injections were divided into 2 sites in the pectoral musculature. Serial plasma samples were taken before administration and at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 hours after administration. Oral administration resulted in plasma concentrations of enrofloxacin that peaked at 4-8 hours in both species. Plasma concentrations remained at >1 g/ml until at least 18 hours after administration, although an initial lag time of approximately 2-8 hours occurred for absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. Intramuscular administration resulted in plasma concentrations that peaked at 0.5-2 hours; enrofloxacin levels remained at >1 g/ml for at least 15 hours. After intravenous administration to red-tailed hawks, enrofloxacin levels remained at >1 g/ml for at least 15 hours. Two great horned owls showed acute weakness, bradycardia, and peripheral vasoconstriction during intravenous injection. These clinical signs resolved within 1-3 hours with supportive therapy; however, the intravenous route was not evaluated for the other 3 owls. We conclude that oral (in-prey) and intramuscular routes are reliable means of administration of injectable enrofloxacin in red-tailed hawks and great horned owls, using a dosage of 15 mg/kg q24h. Intravenous administration of enrofloxacin can be performed with caution in red-tailed hawks but should not be attempted in great horned owls.
30133224|A black-necked aracari (Pteroglossus aracaris) was presented for a beak injury in which one-fifth of the maxillary rhamphotheca was lost. A portion of a maxillary bill from a dead bird of the same species was used to replace the missing beak of the injured bird. The bird recovered from surgery and did well for 3 months, after which it died during a yersiniosis outbreak. A channelbilled toucan (Ramphastos vitellinus) was treated similarly, but the beak of a different toucan species was used. This patient was observed for 2 months after surgery.
30133223|This study aimed to develop a technique of testicular aspiration and cytology for assessing the status of reproductive activity in small male birds with the swift parrot (Lathamus discolor) as a model species. To validate this technique, cytology was compared with testicular histology and seasonal variations in testicular volume in both wild and captive birds. The described technique of gonad examination and testicular aspiration and cytology was effective in tracking the seasonal variation in testicular volume and spermatogenesis in swift parrots; all 5 stages of spermatogenesis described histologically were identified. But testicular histology provided more information about the cellular architecture of the testes than was evident from cytology. Testicular aspiration and cytology was a reliable and safe technique for assessing the status of reproductive activity during the breeding season in small male parrots. The normal seasonal patterns of reproductive activity of male birds need to be understood for clinical assessment of the reproductive status.
30136899|Contrast radiography with positive-pressure insufflation (PPI) at 20 cm of water pressure was evaluated for safety and analyzed for potential diagnostic use in 6 male northern pintails (Anas acuta). Ducks were anesthetized for either 2 or 3 procedures, 1 week apart, then euthanized and necropsied after the final procedure. Air sac areas on survey and PPI radiographs were measured to calculate average percent increase of visible air sac area after PPI. No clinical complications resulted from PPI procedures. Birds recovered quickly without respiratory distress. No gross or microscopic respiratory lesions associated with PPI were identified at necropsy. Average percent increases in air sac areas resulting from PPI on lateral and ventrodorsal radiographs were 79% and 90%, respectively. As judged subjectively by attending clinical veterinarians, cardiohepatic, air sac, lung, renal, gastrointestinal, vertebral, and testicular margins and boundaries were more distinct as a result of PPI. PPI in an avian patient using air as a negative contrast medium is a safe, effective technique that potentially allows increased radiographic diagnostic capability.
40984723|Vascular diseases in birds are not uncommon, according to findings from postmortem surveys. Although atherosclerosis affecting psittacine birds appears overrepresented, some degenerative, infectious, neoplastic, and congenital vascular diseases may also occur. A variety of imaging diagnostic tools may be used to evaluate the avian vascular system, such as conventional radiography, fluoroscopy, rigid endoscopy, computed tomography, angiography, transcoelomic, and transesophageal ultrasound examination. The wide array of current diagnostic imaging tools offers the clinician capabilities to investigate avian cardiovascular abnormalities. Further research in this domain and constant efforts to apply several, and newer, vascular imaging modalities in clinical cases are needed to expand our avian cardiovascular knowledge base. The ability to diagnose vascular pathologic processes in small avian patients may be improved by recent developments in diagnostic imaging technology.
41826563|Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays are available for detection of birds infected with avian polyomavirus (APV). Several laboratories offer this diagnostic assay in the United States, but little information is available regarding assay sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy. In this study, known APV-positive and APV-negative samples (each = 10, 5 undiluted and 5 diluted) were sent to 5 commercial laboratories. A significant difference in reporting accuracy was found among laboratories, most notably for dilute APV-positive samples. Two out of 5 laboratories provided 100% accurate results, 1 had an accuracy of 90%, and 2 reported 80% and 75% accuracy, respectively. The accuracies of the last 2 laboratories were negatively affected by test sensitivities of 60% and 50%, respectively. These findings show that although accurate results were reported by most laboratories, both false-positive and false-negative results were reported by at least 3 laboratories, and false-negative results reported for dilute APV-positive samples predominated. These study findings illustrate a need for veterinary diagnostic laboratories to institute improved voluntary quality control measures.
27823419|A 13-year-old female double yellow-headed Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala oratrix) was examined for respiratory distress and partial anorexia. Radiographs, ultrasonography, and computed tomography revealed a soft-tissue opacity in the right cranial coelom with a necrotic or fluid-filled center. Endoscopy was used to visualize the mass, collect diagnostic samples, and treat the patient by cyst ablation and fistula formation. The symptoms returned within weeks after each treatment, and the bird died 36 days after initial presentation. Gross and histopathologic examination revealed the mass was a hemangiosarcoma that was attached to the right internal carotid artery.
30133092|Without thermal support, the rapid onset of severe hypothermia is a common sequela to general anesthesia in birds. Severe and prolonged hypothermia may have potentially fatal consequences, limiting the length of most surgical procedures. In this study, a warm-water blanket and a radiant-energy source were compared for their ability to maintain core body temperature in anesthetized ringed turtle-doves (Streptopelia risoria). The warm-water blanket had a minimal effect on the rate of heat loss, effectively extending the anesthetic time by only 6 minutes. In contrast, core body temperature was easily maintained by the constant application of radiant energy. An in-line gas humidifier-warmer was also evaluated. In trials with three birds, the humidifier-warmer had no observable effect on the rate of heat loss and was difficult to use. Changes in cloacal temperature correlated well with temperature changes measured by a thoracic esophageal temperature probe, indicating that core body temperature fluctuations can be accurately monitored by cloacal temperature probes.
27753693|A large ventricular foreign body was identified on radiographs in a captive-bred gyr falcon (Falco rusticolus) that was presented for paresis and swollen abdomen. On endoscopic examination, a large shiny mass was visible in the ventriculus. An ingluviotomy was done, and pieces of the mass, which consisted of a ball of artificial grass fibers, were removed by using a rigid endoscope and grasping forceps. Subsequently, 4 more ingluviotomies were required to gain endoscopic access to the ventriculus and to allow staged removal of the mass in a piecemeal fashion. Feeding the falcon a feathered quail and allowing it to cast naturally removed the remaining fibers of the mass. No deleterious effects were observed in the bird.
40236555|A red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) was presented because of dyspnea subsequent to 2 celiotomy procedures. Respiration markedly improved after an air sac cannula was placed. Tracheoscopy revealed a mass firmly adhered to the proximal tracheal wall. Because of lack of response to medical therapy, 5 tracheal cartilages were surgically resected and an end-to-end tracheal anastomosis was performed. On histologic examination of the mass, vacuolated macrophages, fibrosis, and occasional cholesterol clefts were identified, consistent with a diagnosis of xanthogranulomatosis. We propose that a single term, xanthogranulomatosis, replace the varied terms currently used to describe the syndromes in avian species in which intracytoplasmic lipid is found within tissue macrophages.
30134186|This study determined the occurrence and identity of chewing lice (Mallophaga) on 35 clinically healthy raptors presented with traumatic injuries at the California Raptor Center during the summers of 1993 and 1994. Samples of lice were collected and preserved in 70% ethanol during physical examinations within 24 hours of admission. Eleven species of chewing lice were collected and identified from 7 species of raptors, including 2 long-term captive birds. All louse species except 1 were on their usual, previously documented raptor hosts. Four of the 10 species of freeliving birds examined had no lice, but their sample sizes were small (1-3 birds each). At least 1 bird from each of the other 6 raptor species harbored some lice, but only 2 species, an American kestrel (Falco sparverius) and a barn owl (Tyto alba) were sampled in useful numbers. One of 8 kestrels yielded lice (1 species), and 4 of 14 barn owls were infested with lice (representing 2 species). Two captive birds, a spotted owl (Strix occidentalis) and a Swainson's hawk (Buteo swainsoni), were infested with lice (1 species each) after 463 days and 1198 days in captivity, respectively.
30134487|The reproductive cycle including onset of sexual maturity in hens is not fully understood, but photoperiod or other seasonal changes may be influencing factors. Several different hormones appear to play a role in the onset of ovulation. Luteinizing hormone stimulates the production of prostaglandins by the ovarian follicles. Prostaglandins may help the follicular stigma to rupture, allowing for ovulation. As the ovum passes through the oviduct, the concentration of parathyroid hormone-related protein increases, which may promote relaxation of the proximal oviducts, and cause an increase in blood flow to the oviduct, allowing for increased calcium transfer to the shell. Contractions of the shell gland occur as the egg enters the shell gland and continue at moderate frequency until just before oviposition, when the rate of contractions doubles. Prostaglandin
30135260|Information regarding pharmacokinetic disposition of drugs in ostriches (Struthio camelus) is very scarce. Three common veterinary nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (sodium salicylate, SA; flunixin, FLU; and meloxicam, MEL) were administered intravenously to young ostriches. Plasma concentrations of the drugs were determined by validated high-performance liquid chromatography methods and pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated. After intravenous administration of SA (25 mg/kg), FLU (1.1 mg/kg), and MEL (0.5 mg/kg), these drugs were eliminated from plasma with mean half-lives of 1.32, 0.17, and 0.5 hours, respectively. Apparent volumes of distribution (0.36 L/kg, 0.13 L/kg, and 0.58 L/kg, respectively) indicated that tissue distribution was limited for the 3 drugs. Total body clearance was 0.19 L/hkg for SA and 0.50 and 0.72 L/kgh for FLU and MEL, respectively. These nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, especially FLU and MEL, are rapidly cleared from the ostrich body.
27753656|To evaluate the use of xylazine/ketamine and isoflurane for the induction and maintenance of anesthesia in adult ostriches (Struthio camelus), 7 healthy adult ostriches (weight 100130 kg) were deprived of food for 12 hours and then given an injection of xylazine (4 mg/kg IM), followed 20 minutes later by an injection of ketamine (8 mg/kg IV). After intubation, each bird was maintained on isoflurane anesthesia, and physiologic and hematologic parameters were measured. The respiratory rate and the systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressures decreased significantly 10 minutes after delivery of isoflurane, and these decreases contiuned until the isoflurane was discontinued. Jaw and pedal withdrawal reflexes were useful indicators for evaluating muscle relaxation and depth of anesthesia in the ostriches while under general anesthesia. Recovery from anesthesia was relatively smooth, with minimal complications, and was complete at mean (SD) 50  24 minutes after discontinuing isoflurane. From these results, we concluded that induction of anesthesia with xylazine-ketmine followed by maintenance with isoflurane produced sufficient anesthesia for performing surgical operations with relatively smooth recovery in adult ostriches.
41318124|Previous studies have defined the presence of 6 protein fractions in plasma from many psittaciform species. Additionally, extensive reference intervals have been published for many of these species with the Beekman Paragon electrophoresis system, which had been commonly used in clinical laboratories to analyze the protein fractions of avian plasma. In mid-2009, Beekman discontinued the Paragon product line, leaving 2 primary alternative systems: Helena and Sebia. To compare electrophoresis results from the 3 commercial protein electrophoresis systems, specimens from 40 African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus) were analyzed with the electrophoresis systems from Beekman, Helena, and Sebia. Marked differences in fraction migration were found between the Beckman/Helena and Sebia systems, which manifested as a large decrease in prealbumin and an increase in 1 globulins in the latter system. Both proportional and constant errors were observed among the fraction quantitation data of both the Helena and Sebia systems compared with the Beekman system. Based on Bland-Altman plot data and imprecision studies, the Helena system appears more similar with the Beekman system, although neither the Helena nor the Sebia systems are identical to the Beekman system. Because of the differences in electrophoresis methods, clinicians should be careful to consistently use particular clinical laboratories. For best application, reference intervals should be established based on both species and electrophoresis system.
27753692|An extracapsular stabilization technique was used to repair cruciate ligament ruptures in a trumpeter hornbill (Bycanistes bucinator) and an African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus). The hornbill demonstrated cranial drawer motion and severe rotational instability of the stifle from ruptures of the cranial and caudal cruciate ligaments and stifle joint capsule. The luxation was reduced, and the fibula was cranially transposed, in relation to the tibiotarsus, and anchored with 2 positive profile threaded acrylic pins. A lateral extracapsular stabilization was then performed. The African grey parrot had a traumatic stifle luxation, and an open reduction and a lateral extracapsular stabilization were performed. Both birds regained function of the affected leg by 1 month after surgery. Extracapsular stabilization allows motion of the stifle joint to be maintained during the postoperative recovery period, an advantage over rigid stabilization. Maintaining motion in the stifle joint facilitates physical therapy and can aid in full recovery after avian stifle injuries.
40236598|Femorotibial joint-luxation repair with conjoined intramedullary pins has been successfully used in pediatric psittacine birds. However, there are no reports of complications associated with its use in adults. In this report, we describe the clinical presentation, surgical reduction, and postoperative complications associated with stifle-luxation repair in an adult female Solomon Island eclectus parrot (Edectus roratus solomonensis). The normal perching angle for the eclectus stifle was determined before surgery. Osteomyelitis was treated systemically and locally. Midfemoral amputation was performed as a salvage procedure, without an apparent reduction in the quality of the bird's life.
30130697|Serologic assays and protein electrophoresis have been used to aid diagnosis of aspergillosis in several species of captive birds, but sensitivities of these tests have not been established in psittacine birds. In 7 psittacine birds with respiratory tract aspergillosis confirmed by cytologic or histopathologic analysis, 1 bird had a positive Aspergillus antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) titer, and 3 birds had positive Aspergillus antigen ELISA titers. In 3 birds, plasma protein electrophoretograms showed moderately to markedly increased -globulin concentrations. Six birds had moderately to markedly decreased plasma albumin to globulin ratios. On the basis of this information, the antibody and antigen ELISA tests used in this study do not appear to be highly sensitive screening tests for aspergillosis in psittacine birds. The changes in plasma protein electrophoretograms were the more consistent findings in birds with aspergillosis, but results could also be normal in affected birds.
24623892|Doxycycline hyclate was mixed with soybean oil and then added to a low-fat pelleted diet that contained approximately 2.4% fat, which produced a final diet that contained a calculated 6.4% fat and 300 mg doxycycline per kilogram of diet. The medicated diet was fed to 9 healthy adult cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) for 47 days; a control group of 6 birds received the identical diet without doxycycline. Trough doxycycline plasma concentrations were measured 7 times during treatment and ranged from 0.98 to 3.83 g/mL with an overall median of 2.09 g/mL. The birds were observed daily, weighed, and examined at least weekly, and selected plasma biochemical parameters were measured before treatment and at days 21 and 42. No adverse effects were noted, except one treatment bird became obese. This medicated diet may be suitable for treating spiral bacteria and Chlamydophila psittaci infections in cockatiels that will consume a pelleted diet.
30133220|Over the past 3 decades, increasing incidence of hepatic iron storage disease has been documented in captive birds, particularly associated with frugivorous species of the families Paradiseadae (birds of paradise), Ramphastidae (toucans), and Sturnidae (starlings). Hematology and serum biochemical analyses are of little diagnostic value for assessment of iron storage disease in birds. A liver biopsy is needed to confirm the condition antemortem; enlargement of the liver, heart, or spleen is often seen radiographically. Both a genetic predisposition for altered regulation of intestinal iron uptake in sensitive species, as well as dietary factors influencing iron metabolism, are considered important in understanding the development and management of this condition. Physiological mechanisms that may have evolved to compensate for a low bioavailability of dietary iron in situ appear to contribute to iron storage disease in managed feeding programs. Although dietary iron requirements of frugivorous species remain unknown, many practical diets contain higher iron concentrations of greater bioavailability compared with domestic poultry recommendations (50-120 mg/kg) due to specific ingredients and/or nutrient interactions in mixed diets-the latter including effects of other minerals, ascorbic acid, polyphenols, and specific sugars. Treatment of the disease includes phlebotomy, targeted iron chelation therapy, and diet alteration. Current recommendations for managing this multifactorial issue include: analysis of dietary iron and vitamin C concentrations, particularly those of iron-sensitive species; formulation of low iron diets; minimization or elimination of animal proteins in diets of frugivorous birds; ascorbic acid levels < 100 mg/kg and/or the feeding of vitamin C-containing foods separately. Further study of possible interactions among dietary sugars, minerals, natural chelators (for example tannins, fiber, phytates) and iron metabolism in avian species is encouraged.
30134217|An intact male white pekin duck (Anas platyrhynchos domesticus) was presented for examination because of respiratory distress and 2- to 3-month history of lameness and lethargy. Results of radiography, ultrasonography, and cytologic examination revealed a large neoplastic mass in the coelom. The duck was euthanatized, and results of necropsy revealed 2 large, lobulated masses in the coelom and a small nodule on the liver. Histopathologic examination of the large masses revealed a collision pattern testicular tumor consisting of Sertoli, seminoma, and interstitial cell components. The hepatic nodule was a metastatic lesion consistent with a Sertoli cell testicular tumor. This is the first reported case of a mixed germ cell-sex cord-stromal tumor in a duck.
40236494|A 1-year-old golden comet hen (Gallus gallus forma domestica) was presented because of an enlarged abdomen, cessation in egg production, difficulty in ambulating, and difficulty roosting. Results of radiographs and ultrasound examination revealed a radioluceut oval area in the right coelom and fluid with flocculent debris throughout the coelomic cavity. Escherichia coli and Proteus species were cultured from a sample of the fluid. Antibiotic therapy was temporarily beneficial, but the problem persisted and the hen was euthanatized. At necropsy, the oviduct was impacted with yellow caseous material. The diagnosis was colibacillosis and egg yolk peritonitis, which may have originated from an impacted oviduct.
30135625|A 7-year-old male Major Mitchell's cockatoo (Cacatua leadbeateri) was presented with an encrusted beak tumor. Clinical examination demonstrated a bird that was bright and alert and had good pectoral muscle condition. The bird was open-mouth breathing and had a bilateral mucopurulent ocular discharge. A relatively well-demarcated thick crust overlaid the right naris and extended along the right lateral wall of the rhamphotheca. Radiographs of the head demonstrated a diffuse increased radiodensity of the nasal sinuses. A diagnosis of cryptococcosis was made by examining Wright's-stained choanal smears, which demonstrated a mixed overgrowth of gramnegative coccobacilli and occasional aggregates of encapsulated yeast organisms measuring 6-10 pm within 8- to 12-m nonstaining capsules. The bird was euthanized, and necropsy findings were confined to the nasal and infraorbital sinuses. The sinuses contained a pale, gelatinous substance, which yielded a heavy growth of Cryptococcus neoformans var gattii on culture. Histopathologic examination confirmed a diagnosis of nasal cryptococcosis with severe infiltration of the nasal passages with cryptococci and subsequent destruction of the rhamphotheca.
30135228|The presence of potential morphologic anomalies associated with tibiotarsal rotation was determined in 10 ostrich chicks. Seven of the 10 chicks displayed various degrees of unilateral tibiotarsal rotation, whereas 3 were unaffected. Pelvic limb musculature and joint anatomy were similar between affected and control limbs. External rotation of clinically affected tibiotarsal bones (n = 7) ranged between 25 and 75 (median, 53), whereas that of clinically normal bones (n = 13) ranged between 0 and 17 (median, 8). The tibiotarsal nutrient foramen, in the midshaft, was more caudal in clinically affected limbs than in normal limbs (P = .002) and its displacement was correlated with the amount of tibiotarsal rotation (P < .001, r = .709). The distal aspect of the nutrient foramen was more craniad in clinically affected limbs than in normal limbs (P = .01). The cortical thickness and diaphyseal trabecular patterns of affected and control tibiotarsi were identical. The distal tibiotarsal physis of all birds had an atypical conformation, with transverse and longitudinal portions. Abnormal growth of the longitudinal portion of that physis might contribute to the development of tibiotarsal rotation. However, the caudal displacement of the nutrient foramen suggests that the deformity originates in the proximal portion of the bone.
27753662|Since 1996, The Peregrine Fund has released California condors (Gymnogyps californianus) in the Grand Canyon region of northern Arizona with the goal of establishing a self-sustaining population, disjunct from other released populations in California and Baja California. A free-ranging population of more than 60 individuals now ranges within northern Arizona and southern Utah and has produced 9 wild young. The most frequent cause of death is lead poisoning from the ingestion of lead bullet fragments and shotgun pellets in the remains of gun-killed animals. In response, the Arizona Game and Fish Department has effectively reduced lead occurrence within the foraging range of the condors through hunter education and the promotion of nonlead ammunition. Most hunters have participated in the program. Throughout the course of the reintroduction effort, veterinary science and application have played essential roles in diagnosing fatalities and treating lead-exposed condors, a species with such a low natural reproductive rate that every adult is significant to the population.
30135161|Twelve raptors that were brought to The Raptor Center from July 1995 to July 1996 with elbow luxations are described. Lateral and anteroposterior radiographic views confirmed the diagnosis in all birds. Because the luxations could not be reduced manually, regardless of the duration of the injury, surgery was elected. After repair, a transarticular external skeletal fixator or a figure-eight wing wrap was applied. All birds were anesthetized with isoflurane for physical therapy every other day, beginning 5 to 6 days after surgery. Of the 12 birds, a first-year peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus), an adult eastern screech-owl (Otus asio), and a merlin (Falco columbarius) regained full flight and were released. Each of these three birds presented with a closed, caudodorsal luxation of the elbow and rupture of the transverse radioulnar ligament. Of the remaining nine birds, one died of complications unrelated to the luxation, five were euthanatized at admission or intraoperatively, and three were euthanatized because of various complications after surgery.
27823464|This report describes the author's experiences in participating in avian research during 3 field seasons in remote areas in Prince William Sound (PWS), located in south-central Alaska. Veterinary support was needed to biopsy the livers of nestling and adult pigeon guillemots (Cepphus columba) and adult black oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani). These surgeries were part of larger research studies investigating guillemot and oystercatcher populations and possible continued exposure to residual crude oil in the marine environment after the Exxon Valdez oil spill in PWS in 1989.
40236610|Hydrocephalus is rarely diagnosed in pet birds, and when it occurs, a cause is rarely identified. Communicating hydrocephalus is described in an adult Goffin's cockatoo (Cacatua goffini). Marked cerebral atrophy without evidence of inflammation was observed grossly and histologically in the bird in this report. The segmentally hypertrophied arachnoid membrane provides a cause for the hydrocephalus and corresponding cerebral atrophy. Metaplastic change in the leptomeninges leading to communicating hydrocephalus is characteristic of vitamin A deficiency in other species. Such a deficiency was supported in this case by characteristic changes in the integument and a history of an all-seed diet. Improved recognition of hydrocephalus in pet birds combined with an accurate dietary history is essential to establishing the prevalence of such changes and to confirm our proposed mechanism of neurologic disease.
30136866|Published in 1962, Rachel Carson's Silent Spring is considered a cornerstone of modern environmentalism. Carson documented disruptions in free-ranging avian populations related to the use of pesticides. Unfortunately, the damage done by these chemicals continues today. Recent, sometimes massive, die-offs have been reported in various species because of the use of pesticides. Exposure to sublethal doses of pesticides may lead to profound reductions in reproductive success associated with embryotoxicity, eggshell thinning, and even a decrease in reproductive behavior. Since the use of organochlorine pesticides was banned in North America in the 1970s, the reproductivity of many species such as the bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) has improved dramatically. However, some migratory species continue to demonstrate organochlorine residues in their eggs and low reproductive rates. The reasons for these findings are not completely understood, but they may be related to the persistence of organochlorines in the environment in North America as well as the continued use of organochlorines in Latin America. As veterinarians, we must continue to be vigilant in our diagnosis, as well as in speaking out for reducing pesticide use. Pesticide toxicosis should always be considered in any dead or debilitated avian carnivore or piscivore, even when another problem is apparent.
41682475|Centrifugation is performed on whole blood samples to obtain serum or plasma for biochemical analysis. Although blood samples centrifuged in a microhematocrit tube may maximize recovery of plasma from small-volume samples, plasma biochemical values from such samples have been implicated as causing erroneous results. To compare blood biochemical values obtained by microhematocrit centrifugation and centrifugation with a commercial tilt-rotor machine, blood samples were collected from peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus) eyases aged 32 40 days (n = 51). The samples were separated into 2 equal aliquots with 1 aliquot centrifuged in a tiltrotor machine and the other aliquot ultracentrifuged in microhematocrit tubes. Separated plasma from both processes was sent to a commercial veterinary reference laboratory for routine clinical biochemical analysis. No significant differences were found in the biochemical results of the paired samples by the 2 centrifugation methods. These results show that the centrifugation method has no effect on the plasma quality for biochemical analysis in young peregrine falcons.
30135257|Infertility and poor breeding performance are frequently encountered in avicultural facilities. The problems of infertility or inadequate performance may have either medical or nonmedical origins. It is not always possible to diagnose causes of infertility with the noninvasive diagnostic methods that are used routinely. Testicular biopsy can be used as a possible diagnostic tool to confirm infertility in male birds. A variety of psittacine birds (n = 39) were anesthetized and a testicular biopsy was performed endoscopically using a right or left lateral approach caudal to the femur. The technique and postoperative complications are reviewed.
27823373|This prospective, blinded study was undertaken to determine if inflammatory changes of the skin, feather pulp, and feather follicles are present in feather-picking birds. Eight feather-picking or feather-mutilating psittacine birds and 4 nonfeather-picking (control) psittacine birds were evaluated. From affected birds, we plucked 2 feathers each from a picked and a nonpicked area. Feather pulp was expressed for cytologic examination from 1 feather each from an affected and a nonaffected area and pulp from the other 2 feathers was expressed for bacterial and fungal cultures. In addition, a feather follicle from each site was excised for histologic examination. From control birds, we plucked 2 feathers from the same regions as from affected birds and performed the same examinations on feathers and follicles as for affected birds. Cytologic examination of feather pulp from both feather-picked and control birds revealed no bacterial or fungal organisms. Histologic examination revealed no inflammatory cells in samples from either feather-picked or control birds except for 1 sample from a nonpicked area of a feather-picking bird. Only 1 pulp sample from an affected bird and 1 sample from a control bird grew bacteria. These results suggest that dermatitis and folliculitis should be considered unlikely causes for feather picking or mutilation unless confirmed by cytology, biopsy, and feather pulp culture.
40793250|Blood samples were collected from captive, adult, clinically normal Indian peafowl (Pavo cristatus) for hematologie and plasma biochemical analyses. Hematologie parameters investigated were total red blood cell count, hemoglobin, packed cell volume, fibrinogen, mean cell volume, mean cell hemoglobin, mean cell hemoglobin concentration, total white blood cell count, differential white blood cell count, and thrombocyte count. Plasma biochemical parameters investigated were alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, amylase, aspartate aminotransferase, bile acids, total bilirubin, blood urea nitrogen, calcium, cholesterol, creatinine, creatine kinase, gamma glutamyltransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, glucose, iron, phosphorus, and uric acid, as well as plasma protein electrophoresis. Results were compared with values from studies done in houbara bustards (Chlamydotis undulata), kori bustards (Ardeotis kori), stone curlews (Burhinus oedicnemus), and taxonomically related species, including ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus), red-legged partridges (Alectoris rufa), Kashmir native fowl (Kashmir favor ella), and Bangladesh native, Fayoumi, and Assil fowl (Gallus domesticus).
27823340|An adult African grey parrot (Psittacus erithacus) was examined because of bilateral periorbital swelling of 1-year duration. Ultrasonographic imaging revealed bilateral periorbital and retrobulbar soft tissue swelling, most consistent with fat echogenicity. The bird was euthanatized, and computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head were performed postmortem to delineate the extent of the lesions. At necropsy, the periorbital diverticuli of the infraorbital sinus were expanded bilaterally with soft, yellow tissue that elevated the overlying skin and extended into the retrobulbar spaces and the mandible. Histopathologic examination revealed that this mass was a well-differentiated liposarcoma. Liposarcomas are rare neoplasms in avian species, and this is the first reported liposarcoma in an African grey parrot.
40984802|To determine risk factors and seasonal trends of lead poisoning in bald (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) and golden (Aquila chrysaetos) eagles, blood lead levels were evaluated in eagles admitted from the inland Pacific Northwest region of the United States to the Raptor Rehabilitation Program, College of Veterinary Medicine at Washington State University from 1991 to 2008. Admissions were from Washington (32 bald eagles, 27 golden eagles), northern Idaho (21 bald eagles, 25 golden eagles), northeastern Oregon (5 bald eagles, 6 golden eagles), Montana (2 bald eagles), Alaska (1 bald eagle), and unrecorded (6 bald eagles, 5 golden eagles). In these birds, 48% (22/46) of bald and 62% (31/50) of golden eagles tested had blood lead levels considered toxic by current standards. Of the bald and golden eagles with toxic lead levels, 91% (20/22) and 58% (18/31) respectively, were admitted after the end of the general deer and elk hunting seasons in December. Coyote hunting intensifies with the end of the large game hunting seasons and coyote carcasses left in the field and contaminated with lead bullet fragments become readily available food sources, exposing scavenging bald and golden eagles to high risk of acute lead poisoning.
30135199|A swelling on the right metacarpal area of a male budgerigar was diagnosed as hemangiosarcoma. Diagnosis of this malignant endothelial tumor was based on gross and histopathologic findings. The bird was treated with local irradiation of the wing three times weekly for a total of 10 400-cGy fractions. The tumor completely regressed after local irradiation and the budgerigar tolerated the treatment well; however, the bird died 8 weeks later as a result of disseminated disease. Radiation therapy should be considered as a treatment option in birds with tumors that are unlikely to metastasize or that cannot be completely excised.
41318155|Mute swans (Cygnus olor), whooper swans (Cygnus cygnus), and mixed-breed domestic geese (Anser anser domesticus) were presented for necrotic lesions on the feet, eyelids, and beak. Individuals from the same collection of birds had developed identical lesions during March-September of each of the previous 3 years. Vesicular and necrotic dermatitis involved only nonfeathered and nonpigmented areas of the integument. No abnormal clinical signs were seen on either carnivorous species or birds with pigmented skin from the same collection. The enclosure that housed the birds had been planted with perennial rye grass (Lolium perenne) 3 years previously. Based on the pathologic features and anatomic location of the lesions, the seasonal occurrence, the vegetation history of the enclosure, and the feeding behavior of the affected species, vesicular dermatitis resulting from photosensitization was the presumptive diagnosis. All affected birds recovered completely after the birds were removed from the enclosure, and no further clinical signs have been reported.
30133167|Diagnostic radiographs of the heads of 35 birds (22 psittacine birds and 13 raptors) with clinical symptoms of disease were evaluated to detect pathologic changes as well as anatomic structures in standard projections (dorsoventral, lateral). Pathologic changes in the bony parts of the head (fractures, hyper- and hypocalcification, carcinoma) could often be diagnosed; however, pathologic alterations of the upper airway system were detected only in birds with severe disease. Most anatomic structures were detected best in the lateral projection. Fewer structures were detectable in raptors than in psittacine birds because of the multifold superimpositions caused by the triangular shape of the raptor head. The heads of 10 healthy psittacine birds were examined by computed tomography to establish a standard for the examination of the upper respiratory system. By choosing the uncommon longitudinal scanning axis, the examination time was decreased and the scan was directly compared with the conventional lateral radiograph. Additionally, five psittacine birds with symptoms indicative of rhinitis or sinusitis were examined. Compared with the healthy birds, the volume of the pneumatized areas in diseased birds was decreased. Furthermore, anatomic structures (nasal conchae, apertura sinus infraorbitalis) could be studied in detail. Successful diagnosis by conventional radiography was restricted to changes in the bony structures and to advanced cases of rhinitis or sinusitis. Early stages of upper airway disease and other soft tissue disorders were best diagnosed by computed tomography. In upper airway diseases, measurements of the pneumatized areas allow exact estimation of the degree of alteration and provide a reliable basis for treatment and prognosis.
40236566|Deferiprone is a bidentate oral iron chelator used for the treatment of iron overload in people. The purpose of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetic disposition of deferiprone in the domestic pigeon (Columba livid) and to compare the results with a previous study in the white leghorn chicken. Deferiprone (DFP) was administered orally as a suspension at a single dose of 50 microgram/kg to 10 iron-loaded (IL-DFP) pigeons and 10 non-iron-loaded controls (NIL-DFP). Six NIL-DFP birds were also administered deferiprone intravenously to determine the bioavailability of the drug after a 30-day washout period. To evaluate if deferiprone induces its own metabolism, the pharmacokinetic disposition of the drug was also studied in the IL-DFP group after oral therapy with deferiprone at a dosage of 50 microgram/kg q12h for 30 days. For each phase, collected blood was analyzed for deferiprone by high-performance liquid chromatography to develop a plasma concentration versus time curve. Deferiprone was rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, with plasma concentrations effective for iron chelation maintained for at least 8 hours after administration in iron-loaded birds. The half-life (mean  SD) for deferiprone given orally to the IL-DFP and NIL-DFP groups was 2.98  0.85 hours and 3.26  1.25 hours, respectively, and when intravenously administered was 3.79  1.23 hours. The half-life after 30 days of treatment was 3.42  1.18 hours. Oral bioavailability was 44%. This study demonstrated that oral absorption of deferiprone is acceptable, it does not induce its own metabolism, and the drug was widely distributed in the pigeon, as it was in the chicken, with a longer half-life than that reported in mammals. Minor interspecies variations in the pharmacokinetics of deferiprone exist between chickens and pigeons.
27823404|Horner's syndrome was diagnosed in a 3-year-old female red-bellied parrot (Poicephalus rufiventris). The cause of Horner's syndrome in this bird was thought to be trauma to the base of the neck. Clinical signs included unilateral ptosis and changes in the position and behavior of feathers on the affected side of the head and neck. The ptosis was markedly ameliorated after the sympathomimetic agent phenylephrine was applied locally, confirming the diagnosis. Involvement of feather follicles in Horner's syndrome has not been reported previously but is consistent with the exclusively adrenergic innervation of smooth muscles controlling feather movement. This is the second report of Horner's syndrome in a bird and the first in a psittacine species. The paucity of cases in birds is surprising, as head and neck trauma are common. Horner's syndrome should be considered as a differential diagnosis for ptosis in an avian species.
40793254|Veterinarians rely on results of both the complete blood cell count (CBC) and plasma protein electrophoresis (EPH) in conjunction with the results of the plasma biochemical analysis to evaluate the health status of avian patients. Because the CBC and protein EPH measure different aspects of the immune response to disease, both tests are recommended in avian patients to rule out infectious or inflammatory disease. To evaluate results of the CBC and protein EPH in pet psittacine birds, the records of 144 pet psittacine birds, comprising 11 genera, that were presented for suspected illness were reviewed. Results of the CBC (total white blood cell count and packed cell volume) and protein EPH (alpha, beta, and gamma globulin concentrations) from submitted blood samples from each bird were evaluated. Of the 144 birds, 63 (43.8%) had abnormal CBC results, and 25 (17.4%) had abnormal EPH measurements. Results of the CBC and protein EPH were within reference ranges in 73 birds (50.7%). Abnormal results of the CBC in conjunction with normal EPH results were present in 46 birds (31.9%), compared with 8 birds (5.6%) with normal results of the CBC and abnormal EPH results. The findings of this study could aid practitioners in evaluating psittacine patients and prioritizing the value of individual diagnostic tests.
27823377|Most effective treatment regimens for invasive fungal infections in birds have included parenteral amphotericin B or oral itraconazole. However, the nephrotoxicity of conventional amphotericin B and the necessity of administering it twice daily intravenously have limited its use. During routine physical examination, a 1-year-old male goliath heron (Ardea goliath) was found to have a deep infection with Aspergillus species of its pectoral muscle. Treatment with surgical debridement followed by topical povidone-iodine in conjunction with oral itraconazole for 50 days and then also topical miconazole for 19 days failed to resolve the infection. A novel preparation of liposomally encapsulated amphotericin B was made by combining the drug with sterile, water-soluble lubricating gel. Liposomal amphotericin B was administered topically at a dosage of 1.35 mg/kg once daily for 30 days, discontinued for 15 days (when it became unavailable), and then administered again once daily for 14 days, every 3 or 4 days for 16 days, and every 57 days for 60 days. Treatment of the wound with this antifungal medication, combined with antibiotics and vigorous surgical debridement, led to full resolution of wound aspergillosis in this goliath heron. We chose the liposomal formulation of amphotericin B because of its reduced nephrotoxicity and longer duration of activity relative to conventional amphotericin B. Liposomal amphotericin B is an intravenous preparation that can be given via nebulization as well and has a much longer residence time than conventional amphotericin B in murine models, making it a potentially more practical drug also for treating respiratory tract aspergillosis in birds.
30133205|Although significant advances have been made in establishing artificial breeding techniques in domesticated species over the past 25 years, our understanding of even basic reproductive events in nondomesticated species is, by comparison, extremely limited. A comprehensive and systematic study of the basic and applied reproductive physiology in nondomesticated avian species was undertaken at the Zoological Society of London, England, with the budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) used as a model. This paper describes semen collection techniques, semen volume and spermatozoa concentration, seminal plasma composition, structure and ultrastructure of spermatozoa, structure and ultrastructure of the seminal glomus, annual testicular cycle, semen preservation, spermatozoa functional assays, and artificial insemination in budgerigars.
30133188|Infections with filarial nematodes are well documented in numerous orders of birds worldwide. The filarial nematode Paronchocerca ciconarum has been found within the heart and pulmonary vessels of saddle-billed storks (Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis), as well as other species of African storks. Until now, identification of microfilariae on direct smears of circulating blood has been the only antemortem method reported to successfully diagnose cardiovascular filarial infections in birds. We report the use of a commercial test kit for canine heartworm (Dirofilaria immitis) antigen to aid in detecting adult P ciconarum infection in 2 saddle-billed storks, 1 at necropsy and 1 antemortem. Results of this test were positive for both birds. Direct blood smears and blood filtration tests were also used to identify circulating microfilariae. Both birds died because of separate, unrelated causes but had adult P ciconarum filariae in the pulmonary arteries and, in 1 stork, the right ventricle. On the basis of our findings in these 2 storks, testing for canine heartworm antigen, in conjunction with a blood filtration test and stained blood smear of peripheral blood, may improve detection of cardiovascular filarial infections in birds.
40236526|Greater flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber), an endangered and popular zoo bird species, are susceptible to West Nile virus (WNV) infection, often with a fatal outcome. To determine whether vaccination of greater flamingos produced an immunologic response with measurable antibody titers and to monitor for adverse effects of vaccination on health status, a vaccine trial against WNV infection, using a killed vaccine licensed for use in horses, was performed in 1-month-old flamingo chicks. Fifteen chicks determined to be seronegative for WNV were divided into 2 groups: Group A (n = 8) received 2, 1-ml IM doses of vaccine 3 weeks apart; and Group B (n = 7) received 1, 0.5-ml IM dose, followed by 2, 1- l IM doses, all given 3 weeks apart. A booster vaccination of 1 ml was administered to all birds 280 days after the initial vaccination series. Antibody titers were measured after the initial immunization and before and 3 weeks after the booster vaccination by plaque-reduction neutralization testing (PRNT). A positive titer at the 90% plaque-reduction cut-off was not detected after initial vaccination or booster vaccination in any of the birds studied, but serum neutralizing activity was detected in 60% of the samples after the booster at 50%-82% plaque reduction at a 1:20 dilution. No adverse effects of vaccination were observed. The lack of a demonstrable antibody response to WNV vaccination in the flamingos may be attributable to the lack of species specificity of the vaccine, poorly developed immune system in 1-month-old flamingo chicks, poor sample handling or storage, or inadequate vaccine dose volume or frequency of administration.
41318142|A red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) and a Canada goose (Branta canadensis) were evaluated for unilateral pelvic limb lameness. Physical examination findings and results of diagnostic imaging revealed femoral neck fractures in both birds. Both birds were treated with a femoral head and neck excision arthroplasty. The affected legs were not immobilized, and the birds were encouraged to use the legs immediately after surgery to encourage formation of a pseudoarthrosis. Within 2 weeks, both birds were using the affected limb well enough to be either successfully released or transferred to a wildlife rehabilitation facility. Femoral head and neck excision arthroplasty without immobilization of the limb is recommended for managing avian femoral neck fractures, especially in free-ranging species in which a rapid and complete or near complete return to function is vital for survival in the wild.
30136862|Lead, zinc, copper, and iron toxicities are major concerns affecting both wild and captive avian populations. Reference ranges of blood concentrations of these metals in large numbers of birds with no history of environmental exposure have not been reported. This study reports ranges for whole-blood (lead) or plasma (zinc, copper, and iron) concentrations for lead, zinc, copper, and iron in 45 Hispaniolan Amazon parrots that had minimal environmental exposure to any of these metals. Measurements of plasma zinc, copper, and iron concentrations followed a normal distribution, which resulted in reference ranges (mean  2 SD) of 1.25-2.29 ppm, 0.070.19 ppm, and 2.25-6.25 ppm, respectively. All whole-blood lead concentrations were below 0.02 ppm, and a reference range could not be determined.
30133155|Noninvasive and continuous real-time monitoring, easy handling, minimal size, high tolerability, and affordable costs make pulse oximetry, which has become widely used in human anesthesia, attractive to avian anesthesia as well. It is the only noninvasive method of estimating the arterial oxygen status. Arterial oxygen saturation and pulse rate are measured photometrically by photoelectric detection of the hemoglobin derivates in a pulsating arterial vessel. In our study, spectralphotometric analyses revealed a different photometric behavior of avian and human hemoglobin, which is expected to result in an underestimation of the actual saturation value in birds. Further, the application was tested clinically in pigeons and parrots. We used two commercially available pulse oximeters, one of which was modified for the first time to allow measurements in birds with high pulse rates. The trend of oxygenation was well recorded, but the saturation values recorded by pulse oximetry did not correlate well (r = .81) with arterial saturation derived from blood gas analyses and calculation. Pulse rate and heart rate correlated very well in both pulse oximeters tested. Although the monitoring by pulse oximetry is accurate and continuous in a calmly lying patient, motion artifacts occurred with the beginning of surgery. Critical incidents, like dysrhythmia or severe blood loss, were marked by fluctuation and discontinuity of the displayed values, which, however, failed to record the actual values. The pulse oximeter was reduced to its alarm function. We conclude that pulse oximetry is not satisfactory for routine use in avian practice because of motion artifact and limited feasibility in critical incidents. To adapt the method to avian patients, an avian calibration curve-which would consider the specific avian photometric behavior of hemoglobin as well as photometric effects of the tissue-and a more useful artifact suppression or an ECG-triggered instrument may be required.
30133221|A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique, targeting a chromo-helicase DNA-binding protein (CHD) gene, was used to determine gender in birds. DNA from 87 birds, representing 31 species from 9 of the 20 orders of birds, was evaluated. The DNA was extracted from as little as 5 l of whole blood, and CHD-specific primers (P2 and P8) were used to amplify the CHD gene. Polymerase chain reaction products were then subjected to restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Gender was determined by distinguishing between the female CHD-W gene and the male CHD-Z gene by agarose gel electrophoresis of the digested PCR products. The PCR assay using the HaeIII restriction enzyme helped identify gender in all species evaluated except those from the Order Anseriformes. Isolation of the CHD-Z and CHD-W fragments was performed, and the genes were cloned and sequenced in a number of waterfowl species. On the basis of sequence results for the CHD-Z and CHD-W genes for both the mallard duck (Anas platyrhynchos) and the Canada goose (Branta canadensis), the cleavage site for the enzyme EcoRI was identified, and the lack of a cleavage site for HaeIII was confirmed. EcoRI was then used to sex 5 duck species and the Canada goose.
41318143|A 37-year-old female yellow-headed Amazon parrot (Amazona ochrocephala oratrix) was presented after a 4-month-period behavior change and intermittent episodes of obtimded mentation. Clinical findings on physical examination included ataxia, a weak grasp, and reluctance to move. Results of magnetic resonance imaging were consistent with severe hydrocephalus without evidence of cerebrospinal fluid obstruction. The bird was treated with tapering dosages of prednisolone over a 4-month period, during which time the episodes did not occur. Discontinuation of treatment was attempted several times but resulted in relapse. After 3.5 years of maintenance treatment with prednisolone, the bird was presented subsequent to a 5-hour episode of obtunded mentation and worsening neurologic signs. Despite increasing the dose of prednisolone and providing additional supportive care, the bird's condition worsened, and euthanasia was elected. Necropsy findings included severe hydrocephalus with significant loss of right cerebral parenchyma and no evidence of cerebrospinal fluid obstruction. Histologie examination of the remaining cerebral parenchyma revealed a moderate, multifocal, cellular infiltrate; encephalomalacia; fibrosis; and hemosiderosis in tissue adjacent to the distended ventricles. Other findings included hepatic vacuolar degeneration. Diagnostic imaging and postmortem findings were consistent with a diagnosis of hydrocephalus ex vacuo. To our knowledge, this is the first report of hydrocephalus in an Amazon parrot as well as the first report of hydrocephalus in any avian species associated with long-term follow-up and prolonged corticosteroid treatment.
30135620|Female cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) are prone to development of reproductive problems, especially overproduction of eggs and egg binding. Salpingohysterectomy is recommended for permanent control of these problems because removal of the oviduct and uterus seems to suppress ovulation. Salpingohysterectomy has not been used commonly as a preventative measure, in part because of concerns about surgical risk, especially with traditional surgical methods. In addition, clients may not perceive its value. In this study, endoscopic salpingohysterectomy was evaluated in 14 juvenile female cockatiels. Hemorrhage was negligible and all 14 procedures were successful. The positive outcomes suggest that the procedure is safe and simple when performed by veterinarians familiar with avian coelomic endoscopic techniques. Endoscopic salpingohysterectomy in juvenile cockatiels could be used to prevent future reproductive problems. Further study is required to evaluate long-term effects and the preventative value of this procedure in cockatiels.
24624831|Knowledge of the reproductive cycle of male parrots is important for examining the male genital tract and for successful breeding, especially of endangered species. To evaluate different diagnostic methods and criteria concerning the classification of reproductive stages, we examined 20 testicular samples obtained at necropsy in psittacine birds of different species and testicular biopsy samples collected from 9 cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) and 7 rose-ringed parakeets (Psittacula krameri) by endoscopy 4 times over a 12-month period. The testicular reproductive status was assessed histologically and then compared with the macroscopic appearance of the testicles and cytologic results. The histologic examination was nondiagnostic in 19 of 59 testicular biopsy samples. By contrast, the cytologic preparations were diagnostic in 57 of 59 biopsy samples. The results of the cytologic examination coincided with the histologic results in 34 of 38 biopsy samples and 18 of 20 necropsy samples. Macroscopic parameters displayed some differences between reproductive stages but provided an unreliable indication of the reproductive status. These results suggest that microscopic examination of a testicular biopsy sample is a reliable method for evaluating the reproductive status of male parrots and is preferable to the macroscopic evaluation of the testicle. Cytologic examination provides fast preliminary results, even when the histologic preparation is not sufficient for evaluation, but results may be erroneous. Thus, a combination of histologic and cytologic examination is recommended for evaluating testicular reproductive status.
